ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6091	President-in-Office of Parliament, honourable Members of Parliament, I will be very brief. I wanted to take advantage today of the opportunity to congratulate all citizens of Serbia who celebrate St. Luke's Christian glory, to spend it in health and joy. Let us ask the President of Parliament not to work longer today, because many of us have been visiting our friends, relatives, many of them celebrating, and we ask that tomorrow we do not work, although there have been talks, we know that tomorrow we are suffocating and asking you on behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group that we do not work tomorrow, that we can go to the cemetery, visit our loved ones who have died and light candles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6092	Thank you. Mr. Radojko Obradovic, also according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6093	Thank you, President. I wanted to ask the Minister of Finance for a notice so that I could obtain timely information that was important to me for the work of Parliament. It is important at all times that we have confidence in institutions and it is important that institutions respect regulations, laws and all that determines the basis for their work. Our public spending is about a little less than 50% gross social product, 44-45%, and above all, the basic law by which the collection and spending control system is defined is the Budgetary System Act. Article 14. The budget system law defines a clear budget calendar in its first position and says, among other things, that the government should adopt the budget and deliver it to parliament on November 1st. The last position of this same member says the deadline set in item 1 is the deadline in the budget calendar. In other words, it can be a lot sooner, but it can't be later. I have no doubt that the government will deliver the budget of the Republic of Serbia in the next 15 hours, but I ask the finance minister to give us accurate information so that we can prepare for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6094	National MP Marko Milenkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6095	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, members of 225 and 226, and I request an explanation and notice from the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic. What's going on and how is the real problem going to be solved by 300 founders in the Little Plane at Prokuplje's? The elementary school "Svetislav Mirković-Nena" in Mali Plana near Prokuplje, although in a catastrophic, oronulous state, until a few days ago is one part of it, which has not long been used, used for teaching. The second part of the school was brought down five years ago and began to be built in the construction of the Berilje Construction Company, but the money was magically lost, it only came to the ground and a few more walls, and the problem of children was not solved. In addition, a huge crane hangs all the time over that building where class was performed. No one in charge thinks he's moving that crane without their children I believe they'll settle it a long time ago. When another crack appeared on the floor of the classroom, due to the objective threat of wall and ceiling destruction, the decision of the Parents' Council was suspended. For several days now, students have been strikening and symbolically in the time of ten, 15 minutes blocking the highway of Prokuplje - Pristina, until they officially meet and receive guarantees of continuing work on the construction of a new school building. Of course, we should look for the answer in the past and find those responsible for this factual state of affairs, but by accepting the Prime Minister's and Ministerial chair, they're not only taking over privileges, but also obligations and responsibilities. The problem with these people is how serious it is. As a national MP and representative of the citizens of the heroine Toplice, this way I am asking not only the prime minister for an explanation, but also for you, Madam Minister, to separate the modest funds from this budget rebalance and solve the problem of the citizens of the Mali Plan, because they are not allowed to send children to school anymore, so would I, and I believe all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6096	The First Amendment was submitted to Article 5 by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Articles 26, paragraphs 1 and 3. Budgetary system law. The word is for Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6097	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, magistrate Aleksandar Martinovic, SRS MP, today, as well as all previous days, in a conversation with the voters of his native Ruma, where we expect the convincing victory of the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj list in the elections scheduled for next week's 9th November, however, he is as the responsible man and the MP who has seen it, and through the announcements that are truly in the sight of the entire Serbian public is extremely noticeable when it comes to parliament, what is the democratic values of our society and what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia needs as the most legislative body to work, and submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to improve the work of the National Assembly. I would ask you, dear colleagues, to pay attention to Mr. Martinovic's amendment, although the government has rejected it. You have both the obligation and the responsibility to do so in the day of voting, in accordance with your security, because it depends on the matter of people who are responsible for having this material in my hands, which I have this other material, which you have or do not have on the benches, depends on who is scheduled for the session, the material for this session, because Mr Martinovic, who wanted to increase the amount in the division of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for Professional Services, predicted that this amount increased by 44 million dinars. A few days ago, we celebrated 150 years after the first Law on the National Assembly was passed. There is also a respected Dr Žutić, one of our well-known historians and a man who dealt with parliamentary democracy, so he will tell you that at that time all the democratic criteria and values that should be done by one MP were still established, i.e. how until Svetoandreska every other assembly was common or maintained under the clear sky. Since the day the law was passed, although it has been amended, some principles have been established. So, what's the MEP's log, which is the rights and obligations of the MPs, what do people who are also involved in law-making, and these are probably some of the historical and democratic assets that we have to take care of this year as well? If the budget rebalancer, i.e. the government as a budget promoter for 2008, and even all the years before, did not take care of how professional services should function, or says that what is possible for the National Assembly in the budget division only, Mr Martinovic says it can still be done in another way. The reason is indeed the technical nature to refuse this amendment, it is not essential nature. If the promoter had a good will to listen to Mr Martinovic's SRS's appeal that 44 million more are given for the work of professional services, the government would not have called in its explanation for refusing amendments to be in line with the Budgetary System Act, that it would not be known if someone else was to be given it, etc., because it could have all been harmonised with the goodwill of the Proposer if these people wanted to have a better position. I don't know how familiar you all are, but I think 90% of you are, here's what the Serbian public needs to hear, that people who are the professional service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have very little salaries. It's people with medium, higher and high-end expertise. Otherwise, it's all because we're being incorporated into the Law on Civil Service, the National Assembly and the people who work here in most cases. If everyone, first of all, had the right to do so, the president of the assembly, and President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic probably had the problem. And my smallness as vice president, since one vice-presidential post is usurped by a nonexistent, or spirit, now that we should hire people who, by systematization of the National Assembly, are advisors, or professional service to vice presidents, do you know what their salary is? With a high school of 18 thousand dinars, with a higher school of 20 and something, with a high level of expertise, these are usually people who need to be from the field of social sciences and people who, by the nature of their knowledge, need to help the vice president of the assembly, or the president of a parliamentary group, or work in committees, pay only 30 and a few thousand dinars. Then you can imagine who we're in right now. We have, having taken over the responsibilities of the former republic that was broken by the DOS government, they started doing this here, Djindjic and Labus, of course in agreement with Milo Djukanovic to destroy the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and later the state union, we have eight permanent international delegations and we need to form, is that right, Professor Micunovic, a group of friendships. You're the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Do you know how many translators the National Assembly has? Four, two of them in English, I think in French, I think in Russian, and I don't think we have, and who is that, after all, of you and care, but we have to look for it externally. These young people, because they are highly educated, extremely skilled people who prepare for each, absolutely every topic that anywhere in any international body we have to consider, have only 30 and a few thousand dinars of pay. One of the really extremely professional persons when it comes to legal profession and professional service, not to be an unpleasant lady, is sitting here in the Assembly Hall, and no matter how and how the government changes, this lady is professionally doing her job and is always available to all MPs regardless of which political parties. Please, isn't it at least unfair and dishonest to ask people to do such a responsible job and have so little pay. This in the voting day can all be corrected and through the way in which it will technically be arranged by this balance in the items of what is taken from someone and given to professional services, resolved. We are here, we offered, or co-worker Martinović, that possibility. Be responsible for these people because this way you will be responsible for yourself and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Because until the Law on the National Assembly is passed, which is supposed to be the goal of all, we will have a situation like this. If I didn't talk, and it would be even more painful and difficult now, about drivers who have an internship for 30 years, and they pay 15 to 16 thousand dinars, about people who make us food, cooks, waiters, etc., about maids every day. I think you should think of it as responsible people, as MPs, who have far greater incomes and face this situation. Madam President, I join Mr Velimir Ilic's proposal for today's work, because many Orthodox Serbs today are baptized in the glory of St. Luke, and I also want to congratulate and congratulate Professor Vojislav Seselj, the Serbian hero, his family, his wife, the Adriatics, children and, of course, everyone who celebrates Christian glory today, and who also knows that Professor Seselj and every Hague prisoner are struggling to live freely in our country. Of course, I believe, and I am absolutely convinced, that next year, along with my family, their Serbian Radical Party and their people, Dr Vojislav Seselj will celebrate in his family home in Batajnica after six years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6098	Thank you. Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6099	Of course, I'm reporting for the amendment, not the Rules of Procedure, just the thing. I'm joining these proposals that we're working until six o'clock today, that it's not working tomorrow, because there really are legitimate reasons, and we're going to do everything we can to get through all these amendments as effectively as possible, so that both the government and the public can have the opportunity to find out what it's all about. I would continue where my predecessor stopped for this division, and it concerns the professional service of the National Assembly. The problem arose at the time when a law on salaries of civil servants and tenants was uncritically adopted in this congregation. However, it has its second dimension, or, let me say, the other side of the medal, and it is reflected in what was once in the National Assembly between 60 and 70 employees, in this National Assembly, far more was in that Federal Assembly, and when this situation occurred after the disappearance of the state community, it was likely justified to increase the number of employees in the National Assembly, but never increase to this number today. I probably won't make much of a mistake if I say that there are about 300 employees, if not more, in the National Assembly. The problem is not only in this large number, the problem is that the quality of the work of professional services is lost and that must be in mind. In the past, professional services have returned draft laws to the Government if the sectional service of the Legislative Committee assesses or finds that individual solutions do not comply with the Constitution. The situation was similar with other committees. Simply get back to work before the MP gets here. Since 2000 we have come to terms or, to be precise, since 2001, we do not have that kind of quality of professional service, because simply none of them ask, because they must not even ask themselves as experts, but must do what they are ordered to do. In that merger of these two congregations, we received another special category of staff in the National Assembly. There are several employees in the National Assembly who have far greater salaries than both the deputy secretary and the secretary of the National Assembly. There are several employees who have a higher salary than the MPs, and from the President of the Assembly, and from the President of the Republic, to be clear, I will not enter the names and last names or their names of jobs and tasks, but someone needs to determine. Unfortunately, it went through the Administrative Board, since he's in charge of these things. Whatever the story turns out to be, we're going back to what's called a law that's really an inauguration in the state service. It is the Law on salaries of civil servants and deputies, it is the Law on civil servants and deputies, because the uncritical division of business has been done to those who are strictly linked to administrative proceedings and all other auxiliary jobs. There has been a kind of discrimination against those who are formally-legislative that they are in a working relationship in the same body. So if it's the National Assembly, we've got civil servants and we've got tenants. The pay gap is huge. Is she justified? She's not justified. We have a termological discrimination among employees and we have discrimination regarding the attributes that are accepted for the work that is done. We still have a new category with this merger, which is beyond all possible criteria. Of course, regarding this amendment submitted by Mr Martinovic, the government is absolutely right from the point of view of formal conditions: it is easy for you to suggest, give where to reduce. But you must not look at the amendments submitted by the MPs. You can't strictly observe, so you say, according to the Law on the salaries of civil servants and tenants, there are so many civil servants, so many paying classes, the monthly salary times 12, in the mass of contributions, so many tenants, so many paying classes, etc., so many in the mass, that gives that and that number. At least take this as an opportunity to change that law. This law is discriminatory, both in terms of title, both in terms of selection of jobs and in terms of remuneration. He's archaic. It is a law that associates with something from Nusic's comedies, "Miss Minister", "Subject face". Uncle Vasa first called, you take care of him, he can be a tenant. It was a form for the ministers to hire their relatives and house them somehow, only for the state to come. Of course, we have to have a little fun on the subject. Balinovac and Djelic made a mistake. It's good to admit they made a mistake. That mistake needs to be corrected. We know it's necessary to restrain the pay in the mass, but it's not done in quality. Look what's going on with the vice president's cabinets. Just to remind you, when these laws on civil servants and the salaries of civil servants were passed, the cabinet of the Prime Minister and the cabinet of vice presidents were said. The number of vice presidents has increased, so now we have the vice president of the first, vice president and several other vice presidents. They're ministers at the same time, so there's a cabinet here, there's a cabinet there, there's a cabinet there. It doesn't make sense. It really doesn't make sense. It can be fixed and there's nothing complicated. That's what I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6100	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the second amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Peric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6101	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to address you, as a lady I greatly appreciate you, but your arrival, first in the Committee on Finance of the Republic of Serbia, and then the interpretation of the law on amendments to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008 reminded me little of me as a young man to marry, and went to the neighbouring village and praised himself. You didn't praise yourself, you praised that document we need to talk about now. I have to tell you, since I'm following your press releases, and before you come here to the Assembly, I agree with them. But you've been talking about this budget rebalancing all the best. If any law applies to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is this one. The law on colorful lies, i.e. the law on free share, it does not apply to everything, it has been throwing dust at Serbian citizens in the eyes, but, you know, there was a condition that they were full-aged, that they had the right to vote, that they had citizenship, but this also applies to those homeless people who are in the midst of war actions and other pressures on Serbs and others with kiM to come to Serbia, they and how they look forward to what we are about to bring about the law. To confirm, although I do not like to use that saying - the village is burning, and the grandmother is combing, the president of the Republic of Serbia, since my amendment is also referring to the spending of funds in that part, does not care. You know when a crisis occurs in the household, in one family who first starts saving and organising savings – the host? How does the President of the Republic of Serbia behave? Not like that. We of the SRS don't mind, it's regulated by the Law on the height of the salary of the President of the Republic. We demand that he do what the Constitution and the law are mandated to do and to take care of all citizens of Serbia. I have proposed my amendment to split into Article 5 2, function 110, down from 54,358,000 to 34,358,000, and concerns salaries and additions of employees to the President of the Republic's cabinet. Mr. Krasic, the government doesn't hate me for not accepting that amendment. Now I'm going to read what they're saying in an explanation. It says - the amendment is not accepted because the budget user, therefore the President of the Republic, has been carrying out expenditures in the past part of the year that are larger than the amount of expenditure proposed in the amendment. Bigger, so we are just proposing this amendment to remove those funds, because that man, that cabinet, can spend as much as Serbian citizens can never make, or even fantasize about that money. That is why we are asking that these funds be directed towards those persons that counterpart Natasa Jovanovic and MP Zoran Krasic spoke of. There are two reasons why the government doesn't accept my amendment. I said the first one, and the second one says - the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed budget user expenditure reduction, the President of the Republic, could compromise the financing of salaries for the existing number of employees by the end of 2008. Therefore, it could endanger the financial and material position of employees in the cabinet of the President of the Republic, and you see what obligations we have on the basis of unpaid pensions to farmers – six billion 127 million 342 thousand. Comrade Vujadinović, we use the numbers and I've accepted a piece of the figure in front of politics, but I can't do it at all. There are times when numbers are put in place to rob Serbian citizens and we from the SRS will never agree. You see how much we owe to unpaid pensions to farmers. Gentlemen of pensioners, I am sorry that he is not a National MP, Konstantin Arsenijević here, he is a decent and honest man and a real representative of his citizens from the village of Kosalj near Ljubovija. He is a hardworking, honest man, he is a general, he has performed his duty with honor, and someone has seduced him, and the four of you sitting there right now, and I greatly appreciate your contribution to creating Serbia's gross social product. Do you know what this regime will say in the end? We are in financial, economic and all the other crises of the pensioner, because they have increased pensions, and that absolutely cannot be true. We do not agree with the president of the United Pensioners' Party, and in order to agree, I will not say in which list he gave the interview, but he says, on the question of how you view the arrest of Radovan Karadzic, it is about Mr Krkobbic: 'I have no idea about it, since I am completely out of these events, dozens of people have been arrested and brought to The Hague tribunal, why not find another one in Cheveningen. I don't have any insight, and I don't care. '"At least embarrassing. Will two remaining Hague indictees, Mladic and Hadzic be arrested soon? I'm taking care of it, according to Krkobic, about a million and 600,000 pensioners, and that's a sufficient number of people at risk. I certainly don't need two more on my back. I know for a fact two pensioners who are not at risk are Jovan Krkobibić and Milan Krkobibić. Maybe he's also a vice president somewhere. I can't say for sure. But you see one thing, the pensioners say it, not me. Nepotism, so out of the millions and 600,000 pensioners, was not another, come on Jovan Krkobibic, deputy prime minister of the government. Couldn't someone else be the deputy mayor of Belgrade? I think it is shameful and rightly, when they criticise pensions, they will only be able to point to the address of Jovan Krkobiæ, the rest of them with every honour, there is no dilemma. Mr. Krasic, I think the grandson is the oldest. In the inflow, budgeting says the value added tax is 222 billion 762 million and the rest in thousands, and the value added tax in the country is 88 million, and we are proud and proud of what the relationship is. We shouldn't do that, Madam Minister, if we did, and you know for what reason, we're importing a lot more than we're producing. If that happens to us, then we have a problem with unemployment. It should be the other way around. I am pleased that there are probably repromaries in the work, so conditions are being created for the employment of Serbian citizens, and I welcome that. But, finished final products, what's this all about? When we talked about this law in principle, you didn't understand the question. I have to ask you a question about the differences in prices of products from Serbia that are far more expensive with us than in Republika Srpska and Montenegro. That's the question we're looking for, not the flying prices. I have a suggestion for you. Now you have a lot of work to do in both the National Assembly and the Ministry, but once the rebalancing passes, once we adopt the 2009 budget law, take a walk in Serbia. She's beautiful, go to Little Zvornik, Krupanj, Ljubovije, go to the Shop, and see how you live there. You'll see who's there to receive and then your story about how great this is going to fall into the water. You're a good expert, but on the agenda of the Minister of Economy, it's hard for you to stand up to those who only spend their resources. And you see why Jovan Krkobiæ agreed on October 29th not to increase pensions in 2008? Because IMF representatives came to Serbia on October 28th. They were called by the economic part of the government, to show that we can't spend too much on pensions, that we can't spend too much here. And how many Deputy Prime Ministers we have, what their cabinets are, what you once said that compared to the environment, we have far fewer employees. It's not a big problem, not a lot of employees, it's not a problem either, but they're stealing a lot from us, and it's poverty and misery in the Republic of Serbia. Col. Marko Milenkovic spoke about the construction, that is, the suspension of works in the construction of a school. I have to ask you this time, if you have any willingness, to separate some funds for the completion of a school in Ljubovia, where for six years no single dinar has been invested, and if it takes a while, and a very modern and beautiful school is being built, it can only serve as a monument to school. The school now attended by students in Ljubovija expired 20 years ago. So we don't have a situation like Požega a few days ago, because the school director, teachers and teachers, as well as children and parents, fear when children go to school if the injured will return from school. Don't let that happen, and I mean what the Minister of Education did, although Mrs. President praised him when he represented the law here on amendments and amendments to the Law on Higher Education, he did well, and the ministers who spent some time in the parliamentary benches have a little better communication with MPs than those who didn't. But now, in October, he's saying that we're going to be sharing textbooks for the first grade of elementary school in school in 2009. That's good, but let's do what's a burning problem now, what's bothering us, and we'll say it directly or two or three months when it's supposed to start the school year. In the absence of effects, in a poor representation of the government to Serbian citizens, you are now trying to show with cheap tricks that you are taking great care of the citizens of Serbia and how you are doing something. Only in agriculture are the biggest problems. I agree with your statement saying "let us accept some standards of behaviour from the EU and some standards, and when it comes to the abolition of customs duties on agricultural products, to suspend unilateral application of the trade agreement with many countries". You have seen that 137 euros are allocated to the EU per capita for agriculture, and in Serbia it is 29. Agriculture subsidies in Serbia are 120 euros per hectare, and in Croatia, 400 euros are in Hungary. Then we come to the answer, which is why this is the difference between VAT and products imported from those that we produce here. In order not to be too afraid of these employees in the Ministerial Office, I have to remind you that this year is a purchase, and there is plenty of it, a lot of it is produced in Asbukovica, in Machva, in Tamnava, 10 dinars was a price for a kilo, and no one was ready to buy it, and no one was ready to knock it down. As a result of the lack of a strategy for agricultural production, many problems arise. Now we've got corn, seven to eight dinars of sales, and the meat price has skyrocketed, but the production base has been destroyed. You have nothing to strategy about and don't take serious care of the citizens of Serbia, and it's high time to take care of that. Why aren't we hiring? We have a contingent for 8,700 tons of June to take out, and we've exported 2,000 tons. The following year, it is assumed that it could only be thousands, and if we invested in agriculture, if we saved on these items where the unfavorable budget was spent, we would create a employment base and we wouldn't have too much public spending, gentlemen pensioners. Then the social product would be much higher and we could finance pensions and other social benefits from real income. You must agree, colleague Vujadinovic, that the real sector, as you say, no one is in charge in this government, and the President of the Republic at least. Once again, I suggest we get these funds out of the President of the Republic's office and share them with those who deserve much more and cry out for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6102	On page 5 of the amendment, the People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2(2) point 1. One and six. Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Andric. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2(2) point 1. One and six. Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6103	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, since its establishment of the LDP has been seeking to reduce public spending, but not in such a way as to abolish the rights of users, but to adapt economic policy to the basic objective, which is growth, which is to keep the rights acquired at the same level, which in four to five years, if we were able to lead economic policy, would lead to a reduction of public spending in the social product to 40% and possibly below. When we started talking about tightening belts and reducing public spending, and a cheap and efficient state, we were lonely. Now everybody's talking about it. Immediately after entering office, the honourable minister made several statements, and then suddenly shut up. This budget rebalance is the price of the Cvetkovic-Dacic coalition. He's wasteful and this amendment best shows it. With this amendment, we ask that two cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister, one First Vice-President and one Vice-President be abolished, because these two men perform ministerial functions and have cabinets there. You know who is the first vice president, deputy, which is not in the Constitution, but the Constitutional Court will probably declare it sometime in 2013, so Ivica Dacic and Mladjan Dinkic. Because of these complicated relations, they are both ministers and vice-presidents of the government. In its megaministership, Mladjan Dinkic has as many as six state secretaries, 11 assistants and an unconfirmed number of advisers. It's at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. The budget rebalance predicts that he now has another cabinet as deputy prime minister in charge of what the minister is in charge of. The government, refusing our amendment to abolish these two cabinets, says it is in accordance with the Law on Government, so it tells Dinkic that he has jobs when he is not a minister, when the Deputy Prime Minister is not the first but the second, third or fourth, I don't know if Cvetkovic has divided those numbers as well. So, it empowers the Deputy Prime Minister, Prime Minister Dinkic, for economic development that, I read only verbs, "route and coordinate". So now what? "The work of ministries and special organisations in the field of formulating and implementing economic policy and economic development policy." Can't this work out of that minister's office? Why would he have to have a special cabinet for this? I guess as a minister, he's doing the same thing-- he's directing and coordinating. That's why we don't understand why the government refuses. Finally, I appeal to the first and second or third vice president's awareness that they save taxpayers' money, because when the budget was written, it was almost half a million euros, 37 million dinars for those two cabinets that were not needed. Imagine when Dinkic has so many state secretaries, assistants and advisers, he obviously needs to replace the employment office or at least to partially facilitate the employment office. If he stays in that cabinet, there's another cabinet, maybe there won't be enough of these half a million euros. On the other hand, I might understand that Police Minister Dacic should have a cabinet as Deputy Prime Minister, because the police are police. Imagine that he, for example, is talking to some union people or some party that has nothing to do with it and now the cops come to him and they say, "Arrested this one, we saw Mladic, there's a haircut." That may not be possible in one cabinet, but Dinkic, or minister, is unacceptable. That is why I appeal once again to the government to accept our amendment or these two gentlemen to give up these privileges because, after all, they are the money of all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6104	Mr. Marash, also after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6105	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this amendment has been rejected by the government and has been said not legally possible. It absolutely doesn't cut, or it's consistent with common sense. We have four vice-presidents of the government, with it for an absolutely incredible that the ministry that he's covering is also covering his vice-presidential post. It is, of course, Minister Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Earlier, my colleague Ostojić mentioned that by abolishing these two vice-presidential cabinets, all the funds provided for these cabinets, which is about 37 million dinars, if we are already trying, which I have repeatedly said when we talked about budget rebalancing, that we are strengthening some items in budget rebalancing, or to raise 10% pensions, to subsidise agriculture, etc., I do not see reason for haughtiness and enlargement when it comes to these two cabinets of vice presidents. We also talked about it when Mr. Cvetkovic here defended his government, or so many ministries, or those four vice-presidential posts. Let's understand, Mr. Dacic has expanded his activity, not only is he a police minister, but his advisors are very well-known to the general public and we've talked about it. If we could welcome his idea that he was engaged in sports and everything else, so he hired Mr. Divac as his advisor, we were a little surprised that he, as a police minister, was engaged as his advisor with a lawyer who was very prominent in the defence of Hague indictees, or Mr. Tom Phil. Let's leave Mr. Dacic alone for a moment. It is truly quite amazing, I underline once again, that Minister Dinkic, at the same time as Deputy Prime Minister, has the same activity, i.e. the same diapazon and its ministerial post and vice-presidential coverage, but the man must have two cabinets. A moment ago, Mr Ostojić mentioned something that was widely known and I would just like to supplement it. So it's true that Mr. Dinkic has six state secretaries, 11 assistants. You said you didn't know his number. I can complement you to assume that his number of advisors is between 360 and 3,600, since Mr. Dinkic is indeed known as the person who is a great waste. I could understand everything just to see one result of his work in the ministry, what is it that Mr Dinkic did. What is it that brought better to this country? Are those ski resorts? We will talk about ski-related affairs the next days when the amendment comes in line to increase budget rebalancing, as well as about Serbia's ski resorts. So wherever you touch any public enterprise, where the G17 people set up by Dinkic, you will encounter a large number of malversions, on incredibly high wages, on a tremendously large circle of people who are taking advantage of public enterprises. To conclude, I'd like to leave more time for my colleagues. I just wanted to say that I really don't understand one thing, we know that Mr. Dacic has a tendency like Houdini, and a suitcase with him in his hands, and the case isn't in his hands. We know that Mr Dinkic also has a tendency like Houdini and that the money from Cyprus was found, the hour was not found. There's only one thing I don't understand is how the two of them think they're sitting at the same time on two chairs, one vice president and one ministerial office, or two cabinets. Please make this amendment, if it is estimated that it does not comply with the Budgetary System Act because it is not foreseen where the funds provided for this amendment will go away, please find some possibility and at least when it comes to the vice-presidential post of Minister Dinkic, because it is literally the same jurisdiction as his ministry, and reroute the money to the end line for pensions, so let's talk less about it. This isn't demagogy, this is just common sense. If we wanted to raise our pensions, don't spread the state apparatus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6106	Mr. Krasic, then Mr. Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6107	This topic is very simple and is based on the principle of how many holes Mirko Cvetkovic's belt should have. Now we have a situation where the number of holes on that belt is increasing, which means that our government is growing. They eat more, so they get fat, and that's why we have as a consequence something that has no coverage in the Constitution. Neither the Constitution knows of the first vice-president, vice-president, nor the Constitution, regardless of its provision that the Government has a president, vice-president and minister, however the word of the vice-president is interpreted, whether as a single or as a plural, it can be an excuse for these positions that have been discussed for several minutes. First, I'd like to go back to that last wasteful part of the budget, as far as the President of the Republic is concerned. Do you know how many of the presidents of the Republic have employees in their service? There are over a table, exactly 103:71 cabinet employees and 32 in the National Office. Did you notice that the last two years have been thrown out the word - People's Office? No more stories about the People's Office. The mission of the National Office has been completed. But she stayed in the budget. There's still a number of employees left. The National Office now Boris Tadic no longer wants to talk. He spoke when he was supposed to make a position for his Gilas for the next election. Now there's no more People's Office. A large number of DS personnel came out of the People's Office. That's where they went to school, took care of themselves. You remember how much trouble there was in that previous government meeting when the president said he wanted the people's office. One year the National Office existed as an anonymous organization, so next year it started using budget funds, then give the kid a game, just to please him. Now he's making monsters here, so Gilas grabbed them, etc. It's a similar situation with these cabinets. That connection exists. There's some intra-party division, coalition division, and now, of course, you need a cabinet with certain costs, a ministry where the vice-president of the government is also in charge and moving on. These two cabinets represent the cost, but they represent the other two cabinets. You don't want to talk about Djelic's office. What's that cabinet doing? Come on, come on, did you see him two months ago here? You, on this side, come on, let's go to Europe, go, go on Monday, get a slap, and then Vesna Pesic criticized him, she shouldn't share that assurance to the citizens, or give unnecessary and zero-founded expectations that it would be all honey and milk, because he got right by the mouth. If it raises morale, it kills morale, that's the question. These cabinets finance something that's making a fake picture of everything and everything. Earlier in that cabinet, I keep mentioning this Milet Dwarf. He was an expert in secondary raw materials, Mile in transition. That's how this government works, that's how the cabinet works. The large funds are being detached. Mladjan Dinkic is a planetary story, to be clear immediately. Now you see him, now you don't see him, he cracks his bank thing, and he goes straight to Fiat, snaps him with Fiat, and he goes to ski resorts. He always keeps citizens' attention. We have investments, we have shares, so the IMF, so this, that. I think only Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic can calm down. You can't calm down. Twice during the formation of the previous two governments, I indicated in time that he would be the first to flee from the government, so he fled Kostunica's government for the first time. I pointed out in time. Here and now, as soon as he feels there's nothing here, to position him, he's going into opposition while he's in the government, two or three months before the election of the real stubborn-dead and enters. That's how it was at the time of Djindjic. Just to remind you, at the end of 2002 when it was, you remember, ma'am, whether he would be governor, whether he would not be governor of the NBS, he said, as soon as there is no more state union, it is understood, and Djindjic told him, well, if so, then Kostunica should also be President of the Republic because it is understood. Three months before the death or murder of Zoran Djindjic, only with Mladjan Dinkic, he fought over newspapers. Where's the money from Cyprus, will it be the governor, what he promised, as promised? Read the press clipping. The savings room is a special story. It was just the two of them arguing about it. Dusan Mihajlovic attacked him, Batic attacked him, absolutely everything. He introduced himself as an opposition, caught the connection, entered with 15, 16, was the government, immediately my experts, we experts, we'll finance, you others don't know how to handle money, only G 17 knows how to handle money, now no one else knows how to heal, only G 17 knows how to heal. How long is that? Now you've given him the cabinet. I think he had 17 state secretaries last time, now he's probably narrowed it down. Maybe I was wrong. Maybe it's about the assistant ministers. He spread out, as they'd say in a joke, he'd been smitten, the garden over there, the garden over here, the garden this, the garden that, he got it all. Can anyone in this country make a precise difference, even if they read the Ministry Act and read these regulations that have been passed, what is the difference between the Minister of Capital Investment, for economics and regional development, for the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, that is some particular structure, and the Minister for the National Investment Plan? Doesn't that seem the same to you? But no more traffic and telecommunications, no more other ministers. Look out, in this government urbanism and spatial planning runs an orthopedic. Dulic is in the orthopedic profession and he said this - since I often have to close my legs to people who fell into the shaft because there is no lid, I'm going to be the building minister, so I'm going to get a regulation to put all the lids in order to reduce the work of orthopedics. It's his connection to spatial planning and construction. It's his connection. But he has a much stronger relationship, it's Sonja Licht. When she shakes her hand on the table, you all shake. And orthopedic will be an expert on spatial planning. Citizens, this is our government, such is Cvetko, not Cvetkovic, but Boris Tadic. You saw him two days ago. A set of judicial laws – where? Media Center. He won't go anywhere else, he can't. Do you know that Boris Tadic won't even come to the National Assembly session if it's held here in the building? No, he has to be in the House. Why? He's distracted by close communication, but he's a little further away. He can't watch. As he says, when I meet with the presidents of the republic, and I say something with them, and they say, our colleague Tadic is struggling, he doesn't even know how much his country is, and we in Czech Republic and Slovakia are considering taxes. He's already driven a movie that's sovereign, hereditary. What's here at his expense these pools, and the swimming pools, and the pools at VMA, and the pools here, and the Montera, and this, and that. Is someone going to discuss it? He won't. Why? Because it has to change power, it has to. It must be in the next election that everything that's on the left to go to the thick opposition. Why? In order for the public to hear what has been done under the cloak of a beautiful European road to Europe, washed, to hear who is the Duke of Meridian Bank, 11 and a half million. However, we have another duke and he went on the same counter to take the money as this one. That's our problem. We pay for our destruction, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. No one asks you, citizens, if you will voluntarily pay for it, no, it is kidnapped, taken according to the regulations, as it is said, but shifts to the side that is in charge of doing bad things. Our banks don't exist. There are ours with a foreign name bank, but we haven't received answers to those important questions yet, and around the National Savings Bank, and around these banks. Where's the money? Let's not be insulting, that's what all citizens know. We didn't get an answer to the question why it's stalling and destroying our production. We didn't get an answer to the question of who's buying agricultural land in Vojvodina. We have not received answers to many, many, many important, vital questions. But we will stick to stories via television, through the media, the European way, the European way. The biggest lie that could have been told this year was that citizens voted for a European path in the May 11th elections. Is that what only a man could say who had no idea about politics and math? Why? Boris Tadic shared a political scene during the campaign. He said -- who will vote for the European path for ZES, who is not he will vote for this second. When this second thing is added up, by the number of votes and by the number of mandates, it's more than this one over here. But no, there are immediately political analysts and others who are the result of the political perversion that interprets it in their own way. They're good now, so they're not here anymore. The European Union is firing, and you are forcing citizens of the Republic of Serbia to respect both Olli Rehn and Solana, and the IMF Mission, and the OSCE, and Eulex and Paullex. All slow, calm, nice, step by step. What? It kills will, it kills the possibility of citizens resisting something that doesn't suit them and moving on. All of this is funded and Serbian citizens need to understand that they themselves are financing their own failure, because the money they are giving is not making moves in favour of the people and the state, but against the people and the state. That's why they're not here. There are some ministers, you can't mistake your soul, you can't accuse them, you can call them, what they have to do with something that's happening, because they're in the cabinets, protected. When they cross the street, it all has to be cleared up, and no one has to make them drive only a fiyat's car from Kragujevac in the future. They don't need to fly planes because we don't make planes. They don't need to drive helicopters because we don't make helicopters. So we should put them all in the fiat, and maybe Djelic was the most honest. He bought one of the Southerners. But because he's the only one who bought it, no one believed it was serious. Now we have to make the government, when it changes the rolling stock, buys only the "fiata", the "fiata" produced since June 2008 and beyond. If there's no "fiat," you can't buy a car. Why would they believe something you don't believe in? I suggest that this amendment be considered, because it really is as it is conceived, it is contrary to the Government Act, the Ministry Act and some other regulations. But what the amendment proposes is justifiable, and you have to keep that in mind, and give some regulation on the government's organisation, control it, so tell the vice president's office that he has a secretary, possibly another two-three, not 15.16, 17 or how many of these, I haven't read this on purpose, there are 30 people employed in the cabinet, although the man already has a ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6108	Thank you. Mr. Lapčević according to this same amendment, then Mrs. Judith, then Sasha.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6109	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, reading this amendment seemed very interesting to me, so I tried to examine what really is the essence of this amendment. I can say that he really makes sense, and I'll explain why. The amendment proposes to completely erase the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development since the cabinet is headed by Economy and Regional Development Minister Mladjan Dinkic, who also has a cabinet in his own ministry in addition to this cabinet. As expenses for the cabinet of vice-presidents for economic development, nearly 30 million dinars are projected, and within these funds, for example, services under contract, 12 million dinars should be allocated, and for travel costs three million dinars. In the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, therefore for the same Minister Mladjan Dinkic, it is necessary to allocate for travel costs of 10 million dinars, and for services under contract no less than 80 million dinars, or a million euros. So it is not enough 10 million dinars or 130,000 euros to travel to Minister Dinkic within his own ministry, but needs an additional three million in the vice president's office. Or not enough 80 million dinars, a million euros for contract services. I really don't know what the services are under a million-euro contract in the cabinet of the ministry of Minister Dinkic? What is spent on a million euros, so additional funds are needed in the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic again? It is one of the illustrative examples of how this budget rebalancing proposed by the government, which is here in the Dragutinovic Assembly, shows on its own how it keeps telling the demagogue story that public spending should be reduced while it itself increases its own expenditure on the work of the government itself, in a situation where we have an external trade deficit of 4.5 billion dinars, which is never higher and records the growth of up to 18%, as the minister said, if I recall, the growth of the external trade deficit. VAT based on goods imported is 222 billion dinars or a third of Serbia's total budget from imports, from VAT from imports. In such circumstances, the government made a decision two weeks ago to start applying the Stabilisation and Association Agreement unilaterally as of the new year, saying that we will reduce or abolish all customs duties on those small products that are not taxed from the European Union. Which will say that we will have in the new budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009 much more VAT funds based on imported goods, perhaps half of the budget will be collected on that basis. What does that mean? This means that there will be much less VAT than goods and services created here in the country, which will further mean that there will be much less work here and much less economic activity. If you are in this way trying to show that a larger inflow in the budget and potentially less prices based on the reduction of customs duties on imported products will be good for citizens, while doing huge damage to the economy which, of course, is not strong enough, will not be able to make a market election in addition to large companies when the market is fully open, it means that Serbia, that is, that the Serbian economy may expect difficult days and that the business activity of our domestic companies will be completely devastated, and workers can probably expect a reduction in wages and eventually layoff. Public spending is also increased by meeting pre-election promises, including a pre-election promise to increase pensions to 70%. For this year, we've heard pensions increase by 10% and it's said here in this material that an additional 12 billion dinars should be found for it. This is partly replaced by the surplusing of funds or by the merger of funds and by the surplusing of funds from that fund of independent actions in this fund that has less resources, which will explicitly say that even now those insurance companies that were in the Fund of Independent Activities cannot be sure that their pensions will be paid in the future in time and that these pensions will at all be settled regularly, i.e. that their growth will be consistent with the growth of inflation and profit. Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Krkobbic, visiting the other day on TV "Avala", said he would do nothing against national interests, and the only national interest in it is the survival of the government. If this is a national interest, it means that Mr. Krkobic will not continue to insist on increasing pensions, which of course means that there is nothing of it because the IMF mission was in Serbia and, of course, clearly said that this country can't handle it. So, Mr. Krkobiæ said unequivocally that he was joking when he said that pensions would be increased and there was nothing of it, and that, of course, a million and a half pensioners could be considered a fraud. It's not all that black. So, these million and a half pensioners, in their structure, there are, as one speaker here said the other day, about 400,000 of those who have below 10,000 dinars of income, and 900,000 of those who have below 19,000 receipts. So, by reforming or by changing the law, it can be harmonised to limit pensions, and that those pensions that are the lowest get a decent amount, so that those who live only on that pension, of those ten or less thousands of dinars, I also mentioned my father who receives 8,000 dinars, could live decently out of that money. On the contrary, these stories about the cabinets of Deputy Prime Minister Dinkic and his ministry and public spending in those ministries, we have mentioned yesterday and the previous days of the Airport, which is at the heart of interest due to the high earnings of directors, president and members of the Management Board. The director of the airport, Mr. Kristo, justifies that there is an increase in profits at the airport, saying that this year the airport should record an increase in profits to 18m euros in total and that the number of passengers this year will be recordable, over 1.1 million passengers, which sounds very nice. The airport, of course, is a monopoly company in this country, there is no more airport in this country that can benefit from the provision of services, because the country's only qualified civilian airport, which is a airport, has not been authorised for years, or has not been authorised and travelling to national airline flights precisely because of this "Nikola Tesla" airport in Belgrade -- that all travellers from all over Serbia should come to that airport where the fees of one of the highest in Europe are. The fee for using airport services is 18 euros, although it was concluded last year that it must be reduced to 4 to 6 euros, of course not done. Then the director says he has 18m euros in airport. Well, how he won't have it when you charge so many passengers, of course you'll have a profit. What's the passenger doing? Well, he can't go to Sofia or Budapest to fly, he has to come here when there's no airport for famous reasons. A powerful lobby in airlines and at the airport does not allow any other airport to develop, does not allow the airport to provide services for more than 2.2 million citizens in the area, who are gravitating at the airport, precisely for the reason it is necessary to satisfy the interests of the Belgrade airport and those lobbyes that represent it here. It is entirely justified to adopt this amendment. Of course, it wasn't proposed as it was supposed to be, but the government had to bear in mind these remarks and do something to change budget items by its own amendment in order to reduce public spending. You can't tell the demagogue that it's too much public spending and that there's something to do about it without showing it yourself. In its budget rebalancing, the government had to tighten the belt maximumly for its ministries, for its vice-presidents, to save, and to say, those funds shifted for, for example, 26 schools in Niška, Toplički and Pirotski County located in the countryside, and also in the day-to-day, in 2008, do not have wet knots, but children go out and when it's minus 20, and minus 15, and when it rains, and when it's snow, in some broken barracks to meet their physiological needs. That's inadmissible. It is unacceptable for the government to impose excessive costs in cabinets, in vehicles, in travels, in contract services, which are likely to be paid by those people who cannot show up in this section, which says - the number of public administration employees, in state services, in ministries, which is otherwise increased by 300 for these three months. On page 109 of the proposed rebalancing, there is an explanation that says the following, just an amazing sentence. The ministry law educates ministries and special organisations and establishes their work. In addition to authorities that have continued to work, certain state authorities have stopped working and some have been newly formed, leading to a change in the number of perpetrators and the need to provide additional funds of 153.5 million dinars. Watch out, many organisations and state authorities have stopped working, some are newly formed, and therefore a new 153.5 million dinars are needed. Is this the Socially Responsible Government? Is that a socially responsible budget? In this state of recession, in this state, the deficits of external trade and budget deficits you increase the number of perpetrators and, on this basis, 153 million only in this year should you single out new pairs, so that is completely irresponsible. So, Madam Minister, I know it's not just your work, but you've had to be hard on your government colleagues, stalling their excessive appetites for public spending, and telling them that when you want to reduce public spending and tighten the belt, then they, even you, have to show it on your own case.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6110	Vice-President of the Assembly, Mrs Judita Popovic, according to this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6111	President-in-Office, the President-in-Office, Ms. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleague Ivan Andric was quite gentle when he asked for these two cabinets of vice presidents to be abolished by this amendment. I'd ask all four of them to be abolished. For what reason? Well, it's enough to compare only the amounts that are scheduled to finance these vice-presidential cabinets. Let's say, given that the cabinet of the Prime Minister holds a sum of 53 million dinars, it certainly looks as surprising as the amount of 91 million dinars provided for the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for the field of European integration. This is especially because we have a European Integration Office. That office carries 81 million and 700 and some thousands of dinars. When compared to you, then the question arises why this cabinet and why this cabinet has so much money, which is as much as 10 million more than the Office that is intended for European integration. When the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Policy is compared with the Ministry responsible for resolving social policy, then it could be said that the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of social policy is a modest man because he is asking for only 10 million and so much for his cabinet to be foreseen by this bill. However, the same Deputy Prime Minister claimed in an election campaign that pensions are small, that pensions should also be increased and that he has won the post of vice president in this government, right on the back of that motto -- let's increase pensions that are small, people are threatened, the existences are compromised. Then what's going on? That same vice-president of the government gets his cabinet and makes 10 million dinars. If nothing else, this is still a little problematic and a little demagogue, especially when we know that these pensions, of course, are very difficult to increase as proposed, or advertised by the same vice-president of the government. So when we add everything together, they're supposed to be for these four cabinets, we get a nice figure of around 147-150 million dinars. Someone will say it's a small sum compared to all the costs this country has. However, all of you who have your families, who live a certain life, know very well that there is nothing to be made of, and even when saving a little. The people are offended by a habit that savings are daily, savings are for each item, so small items if they are multiplied at the end of a larger sum that is significant for this poor country, and apparently too much is spent. It's particularly interesting with these cabinets which doesn't explain why they spend it, because there are ministries that have the same powers as cabinets. Then we have a situation, and I'm going to mention again this vice-president of the Social Affairs Government, as far as the ministry is concerned, that ministry is carrying a 15 billion dinar amount. Therefore, why the 15 billion dinars cannot be found and the appetites of Mr. Deputy Prime Minister in charge of social policy are settled.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6112	National MP Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6113	Dear Madam President, Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not plan to discuss this amendment, but I wanted to listen very carefully, but there was an opportunity to make some contribution, because in the discussion under this amendment it proved to be a significant understanding of the issues concerning the president of the political organisation G17 plus and the resorient minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dinkic. The issue of two cabinets, the cabinet of ministers and cabinets of Deputy Prime Ministers, and that question seems to me, Mr. Maras, to have been most accurately updated, saying that, I apologize for not quoting, but it seems to me that I am correctly paraphrasing, so that this could be justified by certain efficiency, but I would like to hear if there is anyone who can say what the contribution of the person concerned is to the functioning of the economy and system in this country. Hence, I say, I feel competent, because at the end of last year, my political organisation "Together for Kragujevac" and the political organisation G17 plus Mr Dinkic signed a coalition agreement and we knew that we would be together in the elections at all levels before a large coalition was made around Mr Tadic for European Serbia, and of course we would not have made such a decision if we had not previously made an analysis of the very answer to the question that you are asking the public today, which we have asked ourselves at that time. So if anything contributes to the debate, I can tell you what our conclusions are in response to that question. The answer for us is roughly contained in the following: it was to view it as an academic figure and author of the book "Economics of Destruction, Great Robbery of the People", whether we view it as one of the founders of the G17 Plus expert network, whether we view it as governor of the National Bank, whether as Minister of Finance, Minister of Economy, Mr Dinkic, is a rather comprehensive, integrated figure in public action and that this function is marked by certain values that are not without meaning for the era in which we live. This importance is primarily seen in understanding the need for demagogue politics, as it was insulted at the time of democratisation and the introduction of a multi-party system, to overcome engagement on economic issues. Then, given that the financial substance is something that is a subject without which economic issues cannot be treated adequately at the present time. Then, the fact that a circulation chip in our area can have its national dignity and that the nation can be proud of the dinar, to a large extent, is the credit that belongs to Mr Dinkic, to the extent that even to that unwritten folk literature in this way, we have not missed the fact that people, by phonetically similarity to the name of the national currency, have managed to publicly associate and extend. The coalition partner applauds because his survival in one long period depended greatly on the functioning of the finance ministry that Mr Dinkic then led. The fact that promises related to the debts that the state has robbed through the pyramidal systems it has towards the citizens, which it has in no way wanted to fulfill, are deeply linked to the work of Mr Dinkic and his projects is something that, whether or not, citizens largely respect and know about it. What is particularly important, whoever is involved in some public affairs, and is related to budget funds, knows from what national importance is the VAT project, which is precisely the project of Mr Dinkic, which no one has given any prospects of success, counting on our mentality and rustic habits set up in our business, so it has proved to be a system where the overall public sphere in the country rests fundamentally and stablely. Of course, above all, this impression that promoting a professional attitude where a narrative concept of politics has been insulted is something that is a contribution that cannot be forgotten. We who, in the perspective of a regional political organisation, are primarily concerned with the subject of the origin and political system as an articulation of the traditional inspiration, felt that we could help one such professional policy concept by establishing a political backbone in this valuable sense. A note to the end, therefore, there's no reason, Mr. Marash, for that kind of hate and crackdown we'll do. The main conclusion of "Together for Kragujevac", related to this analysis that you have now ordered yourself, is that G17 plus beyond all that is a political organisation that has caught up with the future and we have called our coalition a coalition by perspective. The LDP is also a political organisation we believe has caught up with the future. I think our common goal is much more important to us, which is that we retire to the more dignified and effective way of pensioning those who have remained in connection with the past, and only with it, and then we'll compete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6114	Mr. Maras, then Mr. Ostojić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6115	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my predecessor has repeatedly mentioned my name. I find it very interesting that Minister Dinkic, or president of the political group, or political party or network of experts, came out to defend an MP who is not a member of the G17. It is commendable and any marketing agency that has been paid dearly would commend it. We found someone who is the user of our services and he will commend us. You may not have best understood our criticism of introducing this number of vice-presidential seats, this number of cabinets. We wanted to be economical, what you suggested, how much I realized in your presentation, that as fast as possible and as best as possible we go along the path that is best for Serbia, so I'm in the context of the story we're telling in the previous days that, if we want to increase pensions, if we want to subsidise agriculture, if we want to finance Corridor 10, that we invest in infrastructure, we can't be proud and spend a lot of money when it comes to the state apparatus. We found it unnecessary when there is already a cabinet of economic development ministers, who is Mr Dinkic, to introduce the vice-president's office in charge of the area. We mentioned that there are a really large number of co-workers who are state secretaries, or assistants. Also, we've seen that he's now introduced railway advisors, roads, something that might not be in the description of his activity. How can I tell you, wanting to be the most objective, most of all in the G17 policy, what we recognize is empty promises. I've been waiting for Mr. Dinkic to come to Vojvodina, since, remember, wherever a badger crashes, he shows up here and says there's going to be a ski resort, here we go to work. I've been waiting for that to happen in Vojvodina, so there's probably gonna be bob fields in Frusca Gora, because he promised a winter Olympics. Since he didn't promise it didn't go well in Vojvodina. I'm afraid that the policy G17 led in these elections, in fact in election campaigns, was based on big promises and on the greatest influence of its members and their families on places that provide existence. That is why we believe that this policy is not in place, which is why we find it absolutely unnecessary that there is a vice-presidential cabinet and cabinet of the minister, which deals with the same activity, is the same description of the job. That was our criticism. Of course, we have criticism of other vice presidents, and we said something about them. I think we understand each other very well in some things.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6116	Mr. Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6117	Vice Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, in some situations you need to be careful because you don't know what kind of reaction you can cause. We talked about the cabinets of two vice presidents, we didn't mention the party, we mentioned the minister. I appreciate you seeing LDP as a party that must have turned to the future, but I don't think spending this much money is the future. I know we're doing this pro-form. It's November tomorrow. This rebalancing is essentially spent. He's got two months left. We've been covering this for what happened since the government was formed. Mr. Milenic, I came forward for the word demagogue you used. I honestly mean, don't think this is something ugly, but I think that condemnation of demagogy is the least agreeable G17. For example, I think the National Investment Plan is really one economic demagogy, one socialism and communism, where it's taken from taxpayers, given to certain groups, and it's represented as state money, the money of G17, and that's the money of all citizens who look at us and pay taxes. Lately, much has been misused in political speech by the word "maintain." For example, the state is something, and we're not a state. The state is going to do this. No, we're all state, and parliament, and opposition parties, and extraparliamentary parties and all people, it's all state, and the state is run by government. That's why I don't want any controversy, I'm just saying it's ugly that the minister has a cabinet, that he's hired so many people now that he's also got a cabinet as vice president of the government. In the end, physically it can't be in two places at the same time or maybe, when it comes to you or him, maybe that's possible. In the end, I am sorry that Dragan Vujadinovic is not there. He's been writing columns on various newspapers for years. Believe me, you obviously haven't read, one of his favorite heroes is, he calls him the Junior. What your coalition partner writes about this younger man's politics is quite the opposite of the praises you've said here, not to say the opposite.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6118	Mr. Miroslav Petkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6119	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Ministry, I call for the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 225. I need information so I can attend this debate further. I think Mr. Milenic can give us an answer on what "circulation chip" means. Believe me, I can't discuss the budget until I know what kind of chips we're talking about, what kind of circulations and everything. I don't know if Mr. Dinkic or, as you called him an "integral personality", was able to watch your speech today, so I recommend you repeat this afternoon, because I think he'll be happy to hear such praises. We heard there were amoebes first, then Dinkic, then a dinar. You haven't mentioned any moment of action, or advisors, or the secretary of state, or you're going to be "strong" about how you like to say it. Speaking of phonetic similarities, I would also like you to respond to the phonetic resemblance to the second vice-president of Mr. Krkobic's government. To ask another question, given that it is almost 12 hours, we have not yet received a draft budget from the government of the Republic of Serbia, today is the last day, the deadline expires today and please intervene that the government delivers a budget proposal for 2009.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6120	Mr Milenić, members of 225 and 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6121	I'll be very brief. I'm happy to answer questions, not as big as they are, but I'm professionally obliged to address the question with the desire to help as much as I can, because I'm an educational worker of basic interest. The circular chip or chip that is in circulation, which is circulating, is what Serbian citizens do not have enough because some think they are living off political abstractions and empty quasipatriot stories.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6122	On Article 5, sections 3 and 22, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic, Aleksandra Jankovic and Zlata Djeric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Markicevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6123	Dear President, please allow the Minister's presence before I start talking about the amendment. Dear President, Madam Minister who is not present here, you may be looking somewhere at what I am about to say, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, to be honest, after not accepting this amendment that I want to talk about, I am ashamed, but I am not ashamed of myself for putting up with it, but I am ashamed of those who have neither read it nor accepted it. So, I'm not going to read the budget members, the numbers, I'm just going to say the point. The already mentioned infamous Deputy Prime Minister, for European integration and so on, have increased the number of advisers, I say, above all. We saw it here in the Assembly a few months ago. The NS parliamentary group wanted this amendment to cut them by just 12 million dinars, I repeat by only 12 million dinars. What are these funds to use for? So to put into a budget fund for sports financing, EC 511 - buildings and building facilities. We've even figured out what -- for building sports grounds for people with special needs, people's words for people with disabilities. There are colleagues here who have entered parliament representing both wartime military disabled and disabled. I don't want to call them names, but I expect them to support this amendment. I come from the city I love most in the world, from Chuck. It is the first city in Serbia to be declared a city without barriers, therefore, which has allowed people with special needs, or disabled people, to live as equally with citizens who were lucky not to be in a situation where they are. So those barriers at the spring crossings, what you see in the Assembly a year or two ago, ramps down the stairs, it has in almost all public institutions in the city of Cačka. We've built over 30 sports courts lit for 24 hours, where all citizens, primarily young, can train, play sports and, as we say so popularly, drag them out of bad places, out of the dark and out of the street. Looking at the Paralympic Games and watching some countries invest in their disabled and sports fields, I was shocked and I admit I wasn't informed enough and if I did. We saw the same full Olympic stadium in Beijing. We've seen proud athletes fighting for themselves and for their country, although with physical shortcomings. We couldn't separate 12 million dinars here, so let it be made in Belgrade, it doesn't have to go to Chačka, it doesn't have to go to Kragujevac, it doesn't have to go to Kruševec, it doesn't have to go to the King. This was one sign that the government was behaving arrogantly and insolently. The reason for the refusal of this amendment is in the word, to the point, the same as for all amendments that have been rejected. Is it possible that in one country in the world, there is an opposition who submits 100 and some amendments and none are right? None could be accepted. I asked some colleagues from the DS, with whom I am private, to submit this amendment in the same text, not to write New Serbia, not to write opposition MPs. This was such a wonderful moment where the government could show good faith, make a good vibration, a positive vibration, that it finally realizes that in this country and the opposition is part of the system, part of the state. There's no politics here. I'm just gonna warn you about some things and ask you, as finance minister, to check it out. Someone here mentioned the People's Office. I guess now it's clear to everyone that it was a political and marketing project. How many MPs and citizens know who the so-called director is right now. People's offices? I don't think she knows two percent, no analysts, no media, no one. Do you remember the name of the NGO that cooperated most with the National Office? It's called and now it's called, I think it exists, our Serbia. What's wrong with our Serbia? Money, we're talking about money. I'm asking you, Madam Secretary, to check it out. I'm not calling for immunity. I'm talking to evidence. In a report by the Agency or whatever it is called, which registers political parties and we from New Serbia, and I think all parliamentary groups have received the report from December 2006. There is a political party called Our Serbia. Do you know who the president of that party was? Dragan Gilas. Is that the same Dragan Gilas who was the director of the National Office? He checked out the party in January 2007. That's RIK data. All the MP groups got it. Then there was money for the People's Office, and as I can see now, there is money now. No one's against it. As soon as it's a folk thing, it's probably for the people. Only we could never find out, we could never get a report on how to use it here. They weren't people's offices. They were yellow offices. It was a way to invent space, employ people, and create party infrastructure. Here we can't make 12 million three or four playgrounds, which we're going to mark and say, these are for our children, for our disabled. These 30 and some of the playgrounds I've been talking about in the city I come from, it's always crowded, thank God, lots of kids and youth training, practice. Every minute if we've separated them from the bad place is positive for everyone, for every government, for every official who wonders. And here, we couldn't afford $12 million. We'll find some MPs, I won't mention a party, nothing, that 12 million to build three or four playgrounds. Sports that-- drugs don't, I say hello to who came up with it. We'll mark those sports grounds for people with special needs. I repeat what I said while you weren't here, I'm grateful you came, you probably listened to this. Because of this amendment that you have not accepted, I will be ashamed. The government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6124	Mr. Shormaz first called. You'll do the Rules of Procedure? Honey, how did you get in? By amendment. Here you go, Mr. Marash. According to the Rules of Procedure, he has an advantage. I would like to say, Mr Markicevic, you are indeed a man who expresses a special sensitivity for parliamentary democracy, but you mentioned half of your opposite in some ways in a context that is not in line with your previous acts of equality. Here you go, Mr. Marash. Mr Libranmaraš: The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Art. 225 and 226. We listened last week to the archduke prime minister, Mr. Cvetkovic, who said the previously secured savings deposit would rise to 50,000. In order for something like that to happen, it has to pass like a law here, right? I just wanted to ask, when's that gonna happen? So, when will the law come to the congregation, when MPs will be able to make a statement and when they will be in session. That is the question, at the very least, for the President of Parliament to show truly, and I am sure that all MPs in this Chamber are ready to come to the agenda as soon as possible, to make a statement and give that security to our citizens, not only to spread panic. Madam President, have you heard what I've been asking? If you've heard, okay, just that the sooner it happens that our citizens simply have a dose of security promised to them by the prime minister. The amendments to this law regarding insurance are subject to an emergency procedure in the procedure. Mrs. Zlata Djeric, please. You just said they were before you, I called you, and you said they were ahead of you. I told you that Marash called in the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, you did before Gold, but will you give in to Gold? All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6126	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, Madam Minister, you have all seen that this is an amendment that, above all, has no party colour. This is an amendment that, if we're honest, if we're human, then we should really all support it, and I don't think there's any MP in this room who thinks differently. You know how long we've been struggling in language, first of all, to find a legal right formula for people with special needs, people with special needs, persons with special needs in the law to be determined. That we can call them in everyday life, that we can communicate without hurting them. First of all, because many of us in our environment, both family and social, have people like that. Every one of us. What it is is our real mirror, it is a relationship to these people. I welcome the law, which is in sight, about hiring disabled persons, it's one of the expressions that was insulted, which is the best that doesn't define them, but here it exists in the language. However, what is very important and why I ask you to support this amendment and I appeal to Ms. Minister and to her influence in the Government that this amendment is in some way in law and that this budget rebalance, which has an extremely large number of shortcomings, which even economists have assessed, such as Mr. Daniel Cvetican, and even Mr. Governor Jelasic, is very bad, that this is one of the real things that this budget rebalancing will bring out. One of the real investments, because this is one of the investments in the future. It's a lot of spending, it's a lot of waste. There's been a lot of talk here. Many MPs made a very argument, shouting for it. We have a severe economic crisis ahead of us. But this expenditure is indeed minor in this budget rebalancing, and you will see that the MPs of the NS have submitted all amendments with the same motive. All our amendments when we explain them, you will see, can be supported by all because they have no party colour. They're colored by the needs of citizens. So what I'm just saying for the end is, it's not disability if you have a reduced physical possibility, the real disability is if you stay soulless, if you stay blind, and if you stay completely unengaged with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6127	Thank you. First Mr. Shormaz, then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6128	This amendment is really quite good, but I'm not surprised, I don't know why my dear New Serbia friends are surprised, which the government didn't accept this amendment, I'm absolutely not surprised why it didn't accept it. Because this government is made up of those who fought in 1988 at that famous 8th session, and now have reconciled and signed a coalition agreement for a future appearance in the next elections, which they called the reconciliation declaration. Even then, 20 years ago as communists, they didn't know and didn't recognize the needs of people with disabilities, they hid them, they didn't speak to them, they didn't take care of them. Why do you expect them to take care of them now? It's something that's just not part of them, it's something that's unknown to them, it's always been unknown to them. Whoever follows the political scene, who follows the history of politics in Serbia, knows that's the case. Declaratively, of course, when campaigns are needed to say all that. I don't expect this amendment to be accepted, however good it is and as human as it is, because this is more important, this is more important to them. Look, if it can be filmed for citizens to see, this is just the ministry of Mladjan Dinkic, this is all, let people from the EU, from the IMF, tell me a country in the EU that has a ministry like this. Let them tell me one thing, we're talking public spending on reducing public spending. Then to all this, the cabinet as vice president of the government. It's the same about the first vice president, the vice president, or what's already in the government. Em has as ministers cabinets, em have such a structured ministry, with so many employees, and then plus a cabinet. Of course we can't expect a better one and of course it's not the European government. Of course, they are simply not telling the truth, as they did not talk about pensions or actions, free share of action. All they say was the purpose of coming and taking over the executive government in Serbia, and then waving, as our people say, is possible. And if he doesn't, he'll be in charge, so he'll pay someone else in the future. Those who are younger and younger than me, and yet younger, means those who are children today, grandkids, and God knows how they are in debt, and those who are not yet born. That's the government's relationship to this country. I don't see why anyone would be surprised. I will give another example, how empty they are talking about the EU. Did they run an analysis? Did they check when they gave the Jagodina Zoo 250,000 euros for the famous giraffe? Did they give for something that's a European standard? Did the Minister give consent to this budget money? I checked, there's something called the Union of European Zoos. The standard of this alliance is that animals living in the herd must have satisfactory, and giraffes live in the herd, living space, that living space must be spacious, large, it must be in a closed space quite large and must not live in a smaller number of three, according to their standard, although sometimes they close their eyes for smaller zoos if there are two. There is no such thing as a giraffe or animal in the herd anywhere, according to European standards. Because then that giraffe is alone, lonely and unhappy, and her ambience, space, demands to be in a herd with more giraffes. It's the same with both the antelopes and all the other animals that live in the herd. You gentlemen smile, and you want to join the EU. So you must respect EU standards. The difference between us from the DSS and you is that we want EU standards in Serbia, and then we become an EU member, and you want to run into the EU unprepared, with a giraffe in a zoo, which is not an EU standard, and no one will. The rapid path in the EU, which you use as a term, does not exist in terms, absolutely does not exist. They don't know that in the EU. There is something called a conditionality policy, which must be fulfilled and when it is fulfilled, then we enter the EU. So, either if you want European standards, raise money to the Jagodina Zoo, to make it a European standard, or to return money from the budget, use it for something much smarter and more necessary to this country. Or admit you haven't checked, among other things, and Mladjan Dinkic who gave that money. This is where we heard a few praises about the man. You can't give 12 million dinars for sports grounds for disabled people, but you can give 250 thousand euros to create a living space and destroy an animal. I guess there's something the Animal Protectors' Association in this country should say about that. So, gentlemen, my brothers and sisters from New Serbia, I'm not surprised, I don't know why you're surprised that they behave like this. They just look and go from the fact that God first created his own beard. So they're looking only at themselves, to satisfy their positions, to satisfy what they've entered, to share, to sit. And then they will see that Serbia will quickly enter the EU, although there is nothing since the Lisbon Agreement, although today the newspaper says there is nothing since Croatia's entry into the EU, although it is a candidate, unlike us, for EU accession. Let us work on standards, let us change our society, let this Parliament adopt 300 laws, as it adopted between 2004 and 2006, and let all be praised as European laws, and have the support of both the World Bank and the IMF, not like this. This way it doesn't go anywhere, this is the only way we owe the state more, we create problems, and we can't take care of our citizens, and as a country, we can't protect our people.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6129	Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic, and then Mrs. Minister answered. Your task force has five minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6130	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the Honored Chairman, the New Serbia parliamentary group has submitted this amendment, which is extremely good and I believe all MPs and the government should accept this amendment. First of all, the amendment is too human for anyone in this country to refuse anything like this. We see today in the amendments to what is the problem, the problem is in a number of vice-presidents of the government, the problem is that when this government was made, it had to be so satisfied that the vice-presidents of the government had expanded, not only by number, but also by the number of employees, and then with the needs of money, because it all needs to be met. An impression came a few days ago when Deputy Prime Minister Jovan Krkobic said that pensions would be extended by 2010, he did not say it first, first waited for Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic to say that the actions would be extended by 2012, and only then he said that until 2010 to delay the application of the pension increase. That's what our vice presidents do. They are probably very bored, and then this is how the citizens of Serbia and the parliament of Serbia distract them. It would really be time to make a record, because they too knew that such pre-election promises were impossible, but it was necessary to vote. What do we do now? There is no pension increase, there is no action because, of course, the citizens thought that 1,000 euros for them were life-saving at the moment. In that I recognized what Mr. Milenić said about the circulation chip. For me, actions are a circulation chip, circulating among five million people, something that is imaginary, something that is nonexistent, something that is absolutely unfulfilled. If he wanted to tell us what a circulation chip was, it was. Madam Minister, it would be really time for this amendment to be accepted by the Government. It's extremely important for people with physical disabilities, people who have to get involved in life in the best way. We here in the Serbian Parliament are obliged to help such people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6131	Minister, Mrs. Diana Dragutinović. DIANA Dragutinovic: Dear Madam President, Honorable Presidency and People's MPs, although I am very often from this place criticised for the word compromise, as finance minister, I have a compromise solution and I ask you to accept it. So we are prepared to finance and accept this amendment, and to make the funds a budget reserve at the disposal of the Ministry of Finance. Is that okay? Mr. Markicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6133	On this holy day, St. Luke, I want to be a Christian here. Madam Minister, we in New Serbia are grateful to accept what you said here and we will continue to ask for information on how it will be implemented from that reserve for this purpose that we have proposed. I want to say to you, Madam President, also as an Orthodox Christian, although I didn't quite understand the meaning of your objection, but on today's holy day, congratulating everyone who celebrates great glory and all the guests, I ask forgiveness if I have offended anyone in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6134	On Article 5, section 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2(2), paragraphs 1 and 6. Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, section 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6135	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Milan Avramovic has tabled an amendment to the rebalancing proposal. I think the amendment was very rational. Of course, the argument on a flat-rate basis and on a large majority of the amendments that have been rejected, i.e. which have not been accepted, is interesting, let's say, this end of the argument that the eventual acceptance of the amendment would jeopardise the financing of activities for the EU's stabilisation and association process. Madam Minister, given that you are here right now, I would like to deal with some of the microeconomic aspects of these European integrations and your European preferences, which will certainly be in the context of this amendment and some of the other amendments that my colleagues from the SRS have submitted, and certainly some other MPs from the opposition. At the end of the principle discussion on the rebalancing proposal, you said in your final statement that this rebalancing was an expression of struggle within the government. I think you're an expert enough in the area of economy to have such a shortfall happen to you. Rebalance can't be an expression of struggle within the government. They're very simple things that make someone who's dealing with rebalancing rebalancing. I was a local official in one of the municipalities, so I met up with it, and I'm about to have a modest one, but I have some experience. You know, the rebalancing makes you a bad budget projection, the fact that you haven't built or used all the mechanisms to secure the revenue side of the budget, or possibly that you've made the income side right, but you've been spending your resources irrationally. What's here or all three of these categories have forced the rebalance, it's irrelevant, but we can look at that side of the budget rebalancing. What's more important to me is what kind of consensus one such rebalancing will leave on the macroeconomic agenda and, I repeat, on the microeconomic plan of a local environment from which I come, which I would say, is damaged by this budget rebalance. It is that a number of projects envisaged through the NIP have been disabled to be implemented and implemented with this rebalancing. I would use this time to pay attention to that. Namely, the management of the Surdulic municipality in the previous meeting, from which I came, understood the full importance of strategic planning for a concept of regional development. In this context, we fully understood what the comparative advantages of our community are. By following these principles, and given that in the territory of our municipality there is an area of Vlassin High, or Lake Vlassin, we have succeeded in this area, with little effort, to make a spatial plan, to adopt and accept it, to get a regulation on the announcement of areas of exceptional qualities, in the context of doing short- and long-term programmes that will define and treat that area in many areas. Then, as part of the National Tourism Development Strategy in the Republic of Serbia, we define Vlasina as an international brand in the Southeast Serbian cluster, let's work out a master plan for the development of tourism in this area, etc. I could still count, but let this be enough to basically describe the character of this leadership that was dominantly made up of the SRS, to see that we ruled in accordance with all the modern ones, not to express ourselves in European principles. Within the context of the realization and implementation of all that I have said, there have also been four projects that have been denied by this budget rebalancing to be done. These projects were of infrastructure character, for the reconstruction of road infrastructure, electricity infrastructure, and, most importantly, they were to finance the development of four urban projects for the area. Projects, i.e. documents that, in every sense, form the basis and define development in the next 10, 20, 30 years in this area. With the government's irresponsible relationship to these facts, the citizens of the municipality from which I come, directly 22,000 - 23,000, it doesn't matter, and those who indirectly gravitate that area, since all projects of the regional concept, the municipalities of Bosilegrad, the municipality of Crna Trava, the Municipality of Vlasotince, the municipality of Vladicin Han, are being denied something that would objectively help economic development of the area below. Now you have to accept the fact that the concept of this modern development and perspective was not easy to picture to people living in an extremely rural environment. We've been quite a pain in the way of leadership, so we're from an abstraction, which is where you tend to explain to the MPs what the budget is, how the budget is spent, and how the income is made and so on, we have to translate that story into that simple language that everyone understands. We have succeeded, and we have convinced the people that the concept of such development is modern and European and acceptable to them. I know you're surprised, but Serbia is not a circle of two. We tried to convince them that this concept of the entire region's development should be accepted down there because, according to what the government predicted, there should be six to 10,000 people living in that area on a daily basis. Why does it matter to every man down there? Because on average, these people are going to eat 15,000 meals a day. In order for them to eat 15,000 meals a day, that agricultural producer downstairs has to work for a month to spend it in one day. It is a fundamental and fundamentally right and meaningful story of development, which objectively the Government, which you present here today, does not support and has no understanding of such a concept of development of regional, subregional, whatever you want to call it, or whatever you prefer or what you do more. That is why I believe, Madam Minister, that you are part of a government that objectively and merely declares from this pay phone, or from the Media Centre, or from where, it promotes the concept of even regional development in Serbia. I think that, and by the fact that many NIP projects that the municipalities received, by denying this budget rebalance, you have shown and proved very concretely. Madam Minister, I think you're also a victim or collateral damage to rotten compromises within the government. I wouldn't say rotten compromises, I'd say conflicts produced by the rotten principles on which this government was created. I think this rebalancing is an expression of the unserious demands of individuals who make up the government and very unserious and too ambitious promises in the pre-election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6136	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. The word has been given to the People's MP, Mr. Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6137	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for incomprehensible reasons, I do not know why this amendment by fellow Members of Parliament Milan Avramovic has not been adopted. It is clear that Mr. Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration, for his cabinet instead of 29 million 918 thousand dinars, Mr. Milan Avramovic asked to replace the amount of 20 million 918 thousand dinars, meaning, for some nine million less. Now, if some of them were to go down about ten, nine, 15, six million, we wouldn't bring in the agriculture that I'm talking about until the year of the collapse. Here's how I'm going to document to you now that it's really a Serb village in decline. According to various estimates, there are 4,000-5,000 villages in Serbia. Why different estimates? Because you have a hill-mounted village of 17, 18, 20 houses, and only one grandmother of about 80 years lives, and you can't normally consider that the village is alive. The problem with assessing the exact number of villages in Serbia is that every year hundreds of villages literally disappear. This analysis was done by the Ministry of Agriculture. If the dying trend of Serbia's rural population continues, it is estimated that 1,000 villages will disappear completely over the next ten years. Serbia's standard of living is lower than in cities. There's poverty in rural areas. I'll explain. According to the Selo project for the 21st century, only a dozen villages will receive a total of 450m dinars for infrastructure development and improving living conditions in 2008. So, just a dozen villages, and we say there's between four and five thousand. I don't know how many years it takes for all the villages to get some incentive. In more than 200 villages there are no inhabitants under the age of 20. In 190 villages, there are no residents, which means that 86% of Serbian villages have a decline in population, and only 14% are growing. Research shows that about 260,000 boys living in Serbian villages today who came close to the 50th year of life and did not start families. The reasons for this phenomenon are numerous, and the consequences of the catastrophic, again he doesn't care about the state. If each of them had a wife and only one descendant, it would be another 500,000 inhabitants significant for the biological, demographic and economic reproduction of the village and the wider society in general. Gentlemen, how to implement this if we have a fact, what I was saying in my presentation yesterday when it comes to budget rebalancing, and especially to dividing 14 around subsidies, it is said this way: "From the 334 owners, who received grants in 2006, even 182 was unintendedly spent." I'm interested in which one of those 182 fits legally. As a member of the Committee on Agriculture in several terms, especially in 2004, 2005 and 2006 I asked Ivana Dulic-Marković, then current Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management to deliver to us what these entities, legal persons, by name and last name, have received grants and long-term loans. Unfortunately, the answer has never been. Then the parliamentary questions, there was no answer. I'll give you just one more example of how it was done: by dividing it only to members or sympathisers of G17 and DS, especially those grants. Here, 180 million dinars were allocated from the Watering Fund in 2006. Three subjects received 60 million dinars. Why couldn't he get 60 subjects per three million, five years, a grace period a year, and he's got that 60 million in four years to pay back 15 million. I asked, it's a little ten times a parliamentary question, and the Secretary of Parliament told me - I'm sorry, Milorad, but the minister won't give an answer. It's another one of the factors that's making our village fall apart. Thanks to the government's indifference, the government's misbehavior, the minister and the non-intentional spending of grants, obtained only by those from the ruling coalition or the yellow enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6138	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, Sections 3, 8 and 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6139	Madam President, the presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this amendment has been proposed to cut the cabinet costs of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration, and this in terms of travel costs from 19 million 999 thousand dinars to millions of 999 thousand, as well as services per contract, instead of 25 million 540 thousand dinars to two million 540 thousand. In fact, this amendment proposes to make a major change as far as these costs are concerned, in terms of reducing these costs, in a tenfold amount. And that is precisely why we mentioned today, which is why the European Integration Office also has all these costs, about the same amount. Thus, travel costs to the European Integration Office are 9 million and 500 thousand dinars, so more than 10 million less than is foreseen for the vice president's cabinet. As for the contract service, the office predicts 23 million and 600,000 dinars. It's about the same level as the government vice president's office, maybe for a few million more. When these figures are added together, you get one much bigger amount than the one that looks at first sight when you look at these costs of vice president's cabinets. These costs are also coupled with the simple and cabinet of Deputy Prime Ministers, and the European Integration Office is doing the same job, two teams of people are doing the same job, and apparently there has been no harmonisation and agreement. We see what results we have in terms of European integration, first of all we have not signed an economic and trade agreement. With regard to the economy and regional development ministry, the amendment also suggests that these costs be reduced, instead of 10 million to two million, and services under contract also be reduced from 80 million to three million. The explanation is identical, as is the case with these cabinet costs of the Deputy Prime Minister, and it is really necessary to think seriously about how and how to save money, rather than waste it in a senseless way. Especially interesting are these items for services by contract. If both the cabinet and the European Integration Office have their employees, then why so many allocations for services under contract? If the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development also has its employees, with all those obligations that follow, then why so many separations for services under contract? According to these services, therefore, many things can be hidden, many things can be covered and no valid answer is finally given to what the money is spent on. The amendment is a good amendment because it proposes that public spending be reduced also with regard to the cabinets of vice-presidents of the government, and with regard to the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6140	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) On Article 5, the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Milentijevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Dimitrijevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6141	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Law or, as it is popularly called, budget rebalancing, is an opportunity to somehow spot the government's policy that was led in the previous period. So what are the principles that the government has promoted through its policy, and what is the result of this policy? This is the most important document, before the adoption of that key document, which is the budget of the Republic of Serbia that we expect will be in the process. The first thing I want to say is about foreign policy. The government, therefore, has stated one of its priorities in the conduct of its policy that it will take all legal and diplomatic measures to preserve KIM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. In this sense, the government will continue the diplomatic activities it aims to recognise as few countries as possible the independence of the southern Serbian province, but let's see what has happened in the past. A while ago, a very surprising statement by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Montenegro, Mr. Milo Djukanovic. He said, approximately, that Serbia's foreign minister, Mr Vuk Jeremic, agreed in Montenegro this summer with Montenegro's leadership on recognising KIM's independence, as soon as a vote is made regarding the request by the government of the Republic of Serbia for a statement by the International Court of Justice in The Hague. So, in the government program, there's one thing, and the government's doing another. The government's efforts to preserve KIM's independence are not to bear fruit, but decisions have been made, and decisions have been made today and beyond this assembly are being made. A group of 108 MPs submitted a request to the National Assembly on 16 June to resolve and define the issue of the integrity of the Serbian state. The motion for our resolution, or signature of 108 MPs, has never reached the agenda of this assembly. We have asked for more than one explanation from the president of the National Assembly, which is why this item of the agenda has been downloaded and has not been placed in a regular session. The answer we received mostly came down to the fact that at the time of this resolution, Madam President of the National Assembly was not the president of the National Assembly. It does not take responsibility, for what it means, therefore, everything she found at that moment on the table was no longer valid, but only valid was what was found on the table the day she became president of the assembly. Here, several MPs spoke of the real character of this budget, and the government as one of its objectives in the next four years promoted one very important thing, and this is a significant increase in employment. Looking at the government's composition and all these cabinets now, we can see that the government has done something about it, but it has done it in such a way as to increase the state's apparatus, it has increased it to the point that the state's apparatus is currently satisfying only coalition relations. So it's a fulfillment of the coalition's wishes of the government's coalition partners, which is composed as it is drawn up. In this sense, when everyone is carefully read all the distributions and when it is seen how much money has been spent, in which way it is spent, it is quite clear how the government works, that this government does not have a common policy, that it has no common position on important state issues and that it is, in fact, only one government that works to get as much money out of the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. One of the government's priorities, at least this is written in Mr Mirko Cvetkovic's exposé, will be strengthening social responsibility towards citizens in order to improve the living conditions and work of all citizens, especially the most vulnerable categories of the population. Lately, we've witnessed an enormous increase in prices, an increase in communals, energys, life supplies and all other things. It is further said in this exposé that the government will also take care of young higher education personnel. In that sense, it seems to me that a competition has been called for the purchase of apartments for young highly educated staff. These people have raised loans, as well as who knows how many Serbian citizens. We are witnessing the global economic crisis, we are witnessing an increase in interest, we are witnessing that the government has not taken appropriate measures. The question that arises after this: what will happen to these people, will they be able to pay these loans for loans raised for apartments or will your apartments be taken away, that is, because all these apartments are mortgaged, where will these people end up? Here's another example of the Socially Responsible Government. The amendment I have submitted concerns the transfer of certain funds from the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of European integration, which at that time seemed to me to be too large. He referred to special services, travel costs, etc. So, what was the objective of the amendment? If those funds were spent on something that I think is the priority of this country. We have testified that a few days ago we discussed here a law relating to the write-off on mandatory health insurance. What's the point of that? So there's a lack of money in that register of compulsory health insurance and all the expenses that go on in health care. We saw in the discussions about how this lack occurred. In the budget rebalancing, i.e. in the items proposed by the Ministry of Health, there is a certain type of programme aimed at improving the quality of life and improving the health status of Belgrade's population. These preventive programmes address the fight against the abuse of psychoactive substances, cancer prevention, the fight against alcoholism, the fight against the increase in diabetes and other areas. It is interesting that in the items that are in the budget rebalancing of money there is for everyone, for travel and for contracts on work and for various things. When you add that up by the positions of 4-2-3, you get to the figure of a hundred million dinars and a billion dinars. These items that need to improve the health of Serbian citizens, there is no money for them. That's the point. It seems to me that the government is not showing any good will to address the health situation of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If that were the case, we have tabled for budget rebalances of 84 amendments. A few minutes ago, Mrs. Secretary accepted an amendment. What about the other amendments? Did all these amendments fail? Are they destroying the concept? Maybe they're destroying that concept, they're only destroying it in the sense that they're limiting this excessive public spending. That's the problem. There is no government's goodwill to make any kind of communication with the opposition parties. Looks like the government doesn't need that communication. So she drew up one of her goals, one of her own plan, enormous consumption, no investment, uncertainty and slowly begins, it seems to me that what was one of the issues of the ruling coalition in the pre-election campaign, and that was the fear of the people that Serbia would return to the 1990s. I think Serbia is slowly returning to the 1990s with this kind of government. If we look at the rate of the euro a month ago and we look at it now, if we look at what real earnings were a month ago, and what real earnings are now, if we look at pension promises, then later statements that there is nothing out of that increase, then it is clear where Serbia is sailing. With a government like this, Serbia sails in the 1990s. So this government has not fulfilled its promises by any principle, at no point of Mr Cvetkovic's exposé. This government is wasteful, this government doesn't run national policy, it doesn't run economic policy, it doesn't run fiscal policy, it doesn't run health policy, it doesn't take care of young people. One of the government's items was that it would reshuffle sports facilities. We've seen news reports that a ceiling is beginning to fall off the Tasmajdan swimming ground, that our top swimmer, Milorad Cavic, is forced to leave this country because there's nowhere to train. It's in Mr. Cvetkovic's exposé. So what kind of policy does this government actually run? This government runs a kind of policy to meet the demands of coalition partners, to have who knows how many vice presidents, who knows how many assistants, who knows how many cabinets, and to spend what little money they found in the state register on some things that are completely unnecessary to this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6142	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? Mrs. Zlata Djeric, then Ms. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6143	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected chairman, respected Mrs. Ministers, citizens of Serbia, will read the contents of this amendment, which says, "In article 5, section 3, function 110, EC 423 is changing and instead of 25,540,000 is 5.540,000. The amount of reduction of 20 million dinars is defined in section 56, function 424, which reads: 43.300,000". The explanation is very simple, contained in one sentence, which is clear and extremely acceptable for all in this room, but also for all citizens of Serbia. "The National Programme for Drugs Prevention and Alcoholism is one of the most important preventive programmes in the area of preventive healthcare. ''First of all, the National Programme for Disease Prevention of Dependence is one of the most significant national programmes. It's just as important as all those other programs that deal with everyday life issues. It's a complex programme that, if it comes to it seriously, will be dealt with by at least four ministries and, as a roof, the Ministry of Finance. It must be dealt with by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Youth and Sports and unfortunately the Ministry of Finance, and above all we need certainly the support of the Ministry of Finance. If we are all aware that there are more than 600,000 registered addicts in Serbia at the moment, 200,000 of them in Belgrade alone. Many are on the border, those drug addicts from whose ranks are recruiting future drug addicts, then we are aware that we have a serious monster in our society. Whether it's part of that West Side story that's affected us in the last decades, whether it's modernism or for some other reason being introduced as a disease of this society, the consequences are multilayered, the consequences are truly fatal to society as a whole. They're much harder to treat than the problem is eliminated by the prevention itself. What is important to say in the projects implemented under the National Programme for Disease Prevention of Dependence, is that they should be constantly present, that they should be visible, easily acceptable, visible, that they should be available to citizens at any time, so that this really big problem can be solved. In addition, they also require serious financial resources, as I have already mentioned that they must be resolved overall in at least four ministry resolutions. Only with serious financial support will we show that we are seriously and responsibly accessing this problem and that we want to solve it. This amendment is primarily supported by the NS because it is similar to that which we have presented within our parliamentary group just now. One of those amendments that's not party-colored. This is an absolute amendment that is in the interest of all Serbian citizens. This is one of those amendments that guarantees that, if accepted in this way, and this rebalancing does not invest in increasing the current public spending we have criticised, but, above all, invests in Serbia's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6144	Thank you, Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we also join these people who have supported this amendment, first of all because I see a big difference between what, on the one hand, predicted the budget, and that is a huge public spending in some areas where there is no need to be, like, this duplication of cabinet functions and the rest, which is more of our conversants today pointed out. On the other hand, the health prevention proposed by this amendment and which I consider extremely necessary. First of all, I expected this government to start by saying that it was socially responsible and that it was the pro-European government. The least I could expect of her was to have hearing for the citizens and to work on prevention in the field of health care. So, at the moment when those who are called upon, which is Europe, separates huge funds precisely in prevention programmes, they see it as one of the most significant forms in the fight for the health of their citizens, we have a government that does not accept an amendment relating to drug prevention programmes, alcoholism, cancer prevention, diabetes, dentistry. I think it's very important to take care of these things. On the other hand, when we talk about it, we say that we have a population that is extremely poor and that the area of health sees as a completely unknown field. There is a link between poverty and health, and there is a link between this amendment that we have proposed and what the Government proposes. The government is proposing, let's go, we're building powerful cabinets. In fact, they were made and this budget rebalance only needs to cover the funds that are practically already spent. There is not much dilemma between what Mr. Vladimir Milentijevic suggested. I think that each of us should agree that prevention is extremely important and vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6146	Thank you. Vice President, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I read in an explanation that there was a technical disturbance, conditionally said, in an amendment proposed by Mr Vladimir Milentijevic. The point is clear. The colleagues discussed the need for prevention in the area of health care. Because of the public and because of you who have not been, through a set of circumstances, not because you are not members of the Committee, but because of the reasons of another nature, at the last three sessions of the Committee on Health and Family, where this topic is very serious for our country and for the citizens, launched by the Chairman of the Committee on Health, Members of the SRS, Dr Paja Momchilov. It is a problem that has indeed been seen and not only by the opposition MPs, but I said a few days ago that Jorga's colleague at that session, who was the minister himself, this irreplaceable, Tomica Milosavljevic, who has already spoken to this fourth term almost the same way as we, the Serbian radicals. We don't all have to be professionally familiar with this, but we're all people and we have in our environment and in our family those who need such assistance, but ultimately one serious society, like the Cuban state, and that's what Mrs. President and each of you know, even though it's a country that's under incredible sanctions for so many years for defending your integrity and your people's freedom, has one of the best health care in the world. What happened the day before yesterday? In Cuba, the temperature dropped drastically to only 9 degrees. It was an alarm and a warning signal for all health institutions in the country that yet, its otherwise high mobility in this regard, when it comes to the protection of the population, was raised to an even higher level. Because for a country with such climate conditions, this is unusual, or two hurricanes before that, they mean they have to take care of their residents. There is no possibility there is this work on preventive and primary health care, that a child in primary school has some problems, starting with systematic examinations through development, visiting a regular dentist, etc. Not to mention my oldest citizens. We are, unfortunately, the country where the average population is 41-42, we were once in the early 19th century, although all of this hit us, although we lost many Serbian heroes in both the Balkan and the First and the Second World War, but we had a much younger population. We had a basis for fighting to preserve the Serbian people as much as possible and to develop as possible in normal conditions. They don't even have healthy people today, let alone sick people. We have set out on the Committee on Health and Family the most important issue for a country and for our future, which is the development of children. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, that the rate of malnutrition of children is alarming in our country and that children's underdevelopment is so high that it goes south Serbia and east to 12.13%, 8% and something in Belgrade, and that percentage is about 9% on average. We are a nation where a huge number of people are malnourished or misnourished. Why? It's from a non-cash. What is the meal of the largest number of children and our inhabitants? It's bread or some pastry. Do you think that, or is the government acting, but first of all Boris Tadic, by the system of bread and games, and it's quite common, is it normal for a child to come to preschool or kindergarten, and that the educators see that the child in the diet may first recognize meat. Is that normal? Of course not, because the standard of living is below each level, there are many people who are below and below the poverty line. And in one country where people fight for survival and have nothing to eat, it's illusory and think about the state having a more responsible approach, when it's not working on a poverty reduction strategy, and when it comes to health care. Primary health care has been largely in the last two years, since the law was amended, based on units of local self-government. Right? You all in your midst, whether you live in a bigger or smaller city, you know that local authorities need to go through budget projections for these current years to maintain and invest in primary healthcare facilities. In Kragujevac, in all of Šumadia, you have villages, we have visited each of these villages during our campaign, shows me a colleague of this 600,000-euro Uncle Tomina hut in Bajcetina, and perhaps even more valuable and the question is, while the whole complex is being built, and here is the health station in Georgia. Get down from Bajcetina, now they're working his way around, those bedbugs, all that luxury, the watchtower, you come to Georgia, the health station – disaster. Is it better in an ambulance in flat gai? It's not. Is it better in any other village? Of course not. Where's the sanity equipment? Where's the labs? How many people do they have to pay to do a full checkup, how much to wait for? Do you know, Madam Minister? Ask this Tomica, who is no longer for any co-operation with the MPs, as he was on that committee, then he shouts, jumps, if he responds to Dr Momchilov, imagine that he reacts to Mrs. Jorge as well. So we have the first irresponsible minister, who covers absolutely everything because he won't even open that question about the pharmaceutical mafia and the doctor's office. After all, and we have a situation where, as Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, you cannot, I guarantee you, Mrs. Minister, control 30% of the money flows in the area of health. Because we also asked Svetlana Vukajlovic and the fund manager, there is no Republican Health Insurance Fund concluded contracts with all those who provide health care in our country. According to the estimates of people who deal with this profession, about one thing, we are absolutely certain, a billion that moves from year to year, that they are not known from those who provide services, through those who receive, how that money is taxed, or whether it is paid in the government register. And from there, primary, secondary health care should be financed, and now in that division regional, that is, in these administrative administrative districts, and this is seen differently when it comes to Telekom, healthcare, etc. Kragujevac is a center, for example, because we have a clinical center that was polyclinic, we now have a clinical center, where the doctor is also a respected professor Dr. Djukic-Dejanovic. We serve, i.e. the Kragujevac as a city and a clinical center, provide health services for people who live all the way to Tutina, I think, will correct me Mrs Dejanovic if I am wrong, and those who live in Sjenica. We don't have a city hospital in Kragujevac, and there's no indication that the Republic government is planning to build in such a city, which has a clinical center, a city hospital. Now it's that vacuum, you know. We have hospitals, a health care center, a clinical center, and we don't have a city hospital. How many such cities in Serbia that do not have the health institutions they need? The people from the villages that are far away, let's say Kamenica, it's a rural village, almost 40 kilometers from Kragujevac, it's by nature and by what it's written, and the office has to be treated in Kragujevac, right here in the hospital, right here in the home of health, and it's closer to going to Gornja Milanovac. What we don't have in that neighborhood is a health care station, right, fellow Chikiriz? It's not because they failed. Do you know what it was like before, how doctors and teachers went and created families and settled in certain parts of Serbia? By being humanely directed to do so. In the village of Lužnica near Kragujevac, just 17 kilometers from the city center, the station, i.e. the health clinic, and up two more apartments, is one for the school teacher and one for the doctor. Because it is not the concern of the Kragujean city government, so from one city to another, and we are in a situation where an MP, in this case, from the DSS, does not get a positive opinion from the government. We can also talk about health institutions in KIM, which will take us far away, so Mrs. Kolundzhija will bring us back, don't take it wrong and personally, to Neboja Čovic and to the Co-ordination Committee for KIM, by 2001, 2002 and 2003, when we were here, because we never had a report of the funds spent, we showed that it was spent from the budget of the Republic. Prof. In 2002, when we had the adoption of the 2003 budget, Seselj brought for the assembly speaker documentation in which it was fictitious, with some invoices there that could be invented, so we have experience with these thieves from our party pumping money from a party account and taking credits, it says - building a health station or a health home out there, in some of the enclaves on KIM, and in fact nothing. That's not even a day's work today. Therefore, think carefully, even though there is this technical failure here, this amendment is both necessary and very important to accept what counterpart Milentijevic has proposed for our future, and to show one state, here you are behind this project, when no health minister Tomica Milosavljevic, that we want to take care of our citizens and that we want better prevention in the field of health care. Hypertension has 46% of Serbian citizens, that means every other one recently. For what? Because of the way life, the stress, and the fact that it's not being treated. We've come to this, I've listened carefully to all these people on the Committee on Health and Family, that these diseases are otherwise treated in the field of health, as non-infectious diseases, but spread as if they're contagious. Because if so many citizens suffer from high blood pressure, if a growing number of people from 62 years of age still have heart problems, if we had, and we had a situation to take one of the best experts in the field of cardiosurgery with a broom from Serbia, Professor. Radovanovic from Kamenica, only because he was not at the will of Pajtic and DS, and that entire yellow lobby. Next time, he wants a professor. Radovanovic, over there Mr. Velimir Ilic was going to build a hospital and hire him again, because man is a world-renowned expert. When he can work and operate around the world, after all he's not born in Kamenica, he's, I mean, from Nis, out of that neighborhood, right, fellow Saviæ, that's why he came as an expert in the field of cardiosurgery, to make one such hospital. He was sent away because he wasn't yellow. So we have nothing more to say when we have a government relationship like this. We had three attempts, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, before this rebalancing and talking, first of all, to argue, that was done by people of the profession, about Serbia's health strategy and primary health care. The minister wouldn't listen, he jumped on Dr. Paj as well, and everyone else, he ran off the board, and so did his DS colleagues. But you took responsibility for running the state, so let the citizens see that they will not be taken care of and that from primary health care, we have problems from the infirmary. Not to get into the fact that health care specialists have to work like a machine gun. If due to the norm established by the minister, and he did not give the conditions for doctors to work, today a dermatologist in the Kraguje home of health must examine 40 and more patients waiting for the afternoon shift, then you can see that it is only to meet that standard and those conditions that the minister sent in the brochure to every home of health. Doctors don't have basic conditions, and citizens get hurt for it. Thank you, and I'm sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6148	Mr. Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6149	I'm reporting for replication. I think most of the allegations Ms. Jovanovic made regarding the state of health institutions and primary health care are correct. We will try to point out from the SPO, any legislative proposal that is on the agenda, any important social issue, to what extent true reforms are needed in this country. It seems to me that this congregational council also shows, any topics to touch, to see that our institutions are not at a satisfactory level, that any area of social life is not what we want to do and what it is, above all, in the EU countries, and therefore health care. I wouldn't look back and waste much time during the time the SRS was in power, when our citizens were buying Chinese drugs of suspicious origin, then glasses on the markets, etc., when health care funds were empty. I think the reform of the health system is going in the right direction, but the key problem in each of these areas is the lack of money. Today when we compare health care, when we put a relationship from a few years ago, we see that from year to year everything is getting better. Also, this congregation speaker is actually used to provide a series of absolutely incorrect information. The other day, the lady, an honorary representative of the SRS, who, according to her profession, said that, for example, in the certification of health books, people who do not have a certified health book and who experience, say, a car accident, may be in a situation that, in accordance with the Hippocratic oath, they are not provided with health care. That's not true at all. It has never happened in the country of Serbia that anyone from a car accident broke and mutilated comes or is taken to a health care facility, and that the doctor first asks him if a health book has been certified. After all, other laws have arranged it. Now, this is very important that we all have the awareness of why it is necessary for this area of social life to be decorated by the reputation of the countries of the European Union and these kinds of objections that we are talking about today to not exist in the countries of the European Union. I will point to a positive example of Slovenia. In their desire to improve health care, Slovenians stimulated doctors by having almost double the salary of doctors working in the rural area compared to colleagues employed in cities. I think this government should think about it too. We have a lot of unemployed doctors, and the SPO programming is that we have at least a infirmary in every village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6150	Mr Dimitrijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 226. So, in order for the public to understand what the problem is, since the SPO gentleman said one thing I said here at the pay phone and gave you a telegram about a man who was badly injured in a car accident. It is not disputed that medical care is indicated in emergencies, no doctor escapes from it, but the condition produced by this injury does not last for two days, it does not last for five days, it lasts for months. This individual owns an independent shop where he works and attracts. So he hasn't been able to attract and pay his contribution for months. That's why his book wasn't certified. Let's get things straight and put them where they are. And I stood up against such problems and set the example. The second thing, the current state of health, is that we don't have a National Health Council. We have a minister who was in the first government democratic, in the second, third, fourth and only now we get the composition of this national council. It is not the Ministry's power to determine the strategy for the development of healthcare, this should be done under the Constitution by this national council. Why is he gone and why is the state of health the way it is, we should get that answer from the Ministry of Health and the competent institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6152	The word has Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, a replica, and then Dr. Gordana Paunovic, also a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6153	Mrs. Kolundjia, just patiently, is not a replica of the replica. I was talking about the amendment, and then my colleague, Chikiriz, advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'll get the Rules of Procedure now. Then what's the problem? Here, therefore, because of the incomprehension, it is not the dignity of the Assembly that has been injured, but simply we must, colleague Chikiriz, deal with the arguments. First of all, I see that all the time you've been calling for what the SPO is doing, not to mention your coalition partners, and you yourself know that the minister from G17 is this irreplaceable Milosavljevic, eight years ago, and that he's the one who won't listen to you or your MPs or these yellow ones. Yorga tells him - it's no good, that and that, and he says - I don't care. We have another important problem, and that's because we don't have a central health account. The other day I asked Mrs. Minister if she was familiar with the project, because that is the basis of everything, to prevent abuses, manipulations, money laundering, money outflows from health institutions, etc., if she is familiar with the World Bank's approval of the project, I have not yet received an answer. That's what I set up in that form in 225 and 226, waiting. As for that period that you mention, when you said the SRS was in power, it wasn't even from the SPS, it was from the JUL, but we're not like you to freak out coalition partners and bring out dirty laundry, and that we're doing it, not like you, like Mirko Chikiriz, but I'm talking about your entire coalition and that 18-party DOS coalition. It was the responsibility of that minister and of that government. But you know in what circumstances; when we were under unrecorded sanctions and Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, as director of the Clinical Centre in Kragujevac, had to think, did not find a flaw in Chinese medicines. They didn't miss anything. Someone then spoke from that DOS group since '99, they say drugs that aren't good enough for Serbs because they're made for other people. Can you imagine what kind of crazy statements they were? These are the drugs that saved our lives, from friendly China and from everyone else who was willing to defend us, and to send us drugs and sanity equipment and everything we need. On the other hand, friends and those who brought you to power bombed us, destroyed our hospitals, killed our children and bombed the House of Health in Surdulica. At the time, the assistant SRS minister was Dr Stanislav Momčilovic, at the impossible time, no donations, means only bombs, blackmail and pressure. The Kragujevac Clinical Center, as well as Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, who was barely able to find money for wages and everything needed, for the sustainability of the Clinical Centre, this assistant minister from the SRS has launched a process of creating laparoscopic surgery which, fortunately, Kragujevčan and everyone who comes here and has these services, and day and day works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6154	The word is Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6155	It's a replica to the SPO gentleman. I don't know what the SPO gentleman is by profession, but I'm sure that on the day that in this honored home, the Bill of Retirement and Debt write-off was on the agenda on the basis of a contribution to compulsory health insurance, which the government submitted to this respected home, did not, on the one hand, listen to what I was saying that day, and, on the other hand, did not most likely read this law, nor did he respect what is said in this law. On the one hand, I was saying what it says in this law, which is that the bonds that did not pay the debts will not be able to verify the health books unless they give the Republic Health Insurance Fund any proof that they did it. I'm asking now, and then I asked the Honorable Minister who wasn't here as a doctor. The health ministry sent a letter to health institutions a year ago that healthcare organisations only need to examine patients on the basis of instructions and certified health books. On the other hand, I was quoting the lady, who I don't know if she's still the fund manager, who's clear and loud in the press, and I said that people who don't have certified health books won't be able to be treated. What does that mean? It means that people who are compromised vitally can or do not have to heal. It's one question that can be interpreted one way or another. There's no such thing as a decidation. What about people who don't have certified medical books? Are these people going to have to be treated under some other law? I know that in psychiatry, I work in a psychiatric hospital, we've received all psychiatric patients who are suicidal, or who have been aggressive, or who have been in this state of anxiety. That's why we've been charged very often. This law can, because it has many holes, to interpret that you can receive someone without receiving someone. What's the selection? What are the rules here? I think the Ministry of Health should answer these questions because Serbian citizens know, there is one law that prohibits the certification of health books unless they have paid contributions, and there may be some law on the basis of which they can also treat those who do not have certified health books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6156	For the sake of truth, doctors, regardless of whether it is certified or not, are providing assistance to any ill person urgently. I don't know about other cases, and I've been a doctor for a long time. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6157	Of course, Article 104. Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. This SPO guy messed up everything: the place, the time, the date, the participants. It's all messed up by man and now neither can it be denied nor can it be answered, but it's necessary for people to remember. Who's talking about what, the grandmother of the wrinkles? SPO when there's nothing smarter to say, let's get him to the SRS. It's their tactics. Now he's gone, and what can I tell him now? When the SRS was in power, it was 30 months, when we opposed NATO's pact. To remind you, the government was formed on 24 March 1998, and NATO bombers set off to bomb Serbia on 24 March 1999. In their first plans, given that barricades on the territory, primarily Metohija, were launched on April 1st 98th, to separate Metohija from Kosovo, they counted that all this would end in 30 days. At the time, the SPO did not want to form a government with the SPS, the elections were September 97, and then Vuk Draskovic tried to make 99.9% of the future government with his star Danica. Since these negotiations have failed, and it was only the day that KIM will secede through weapons, with the help of the NATO Pact, the government of the People's Unity, which managed to stop for a year, has been formed to prevent the separation of KIM. At the time, they were different resistors. The health resort belonged to JUL, so it was Mrs. Leposava's first time, and later the portfolio was taken over by Vice President Bojic. There were problems, not just in that vault, in all the vaults. There were also these stories of Chinese drugs, so three years after that government, these Chinese drugs were on our market, they weren't really what was problematic. But I don't know where this guy finds SRS, health care and stuff. I don't get it at all, because if we were to go through that logic thing, then the disaster in Belgrade started in 92nd year, at the bar.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6158	Time. On Article 5, sections 3, 15, 26 and 48, the amendment was submitted by the people's sent by Donka Banovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Donka Banovic wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6159	Dearly respected presidency, honourable fellow MPs, respected finance ministers, I will also join a kind of mild protest that you have repeatedly heard from this pay phone that MPs from opposition parties, who are mostly applicants of these 84 amendments, are simply impossible and unusual that none of these amendments have been acceptable to you. I'm going to try to convince you to accept my amendment, and I'm going to vote on all those amendments that my colleagues here have made very clear why they should be supported. The amendment I have made consists of two parts. It would be better if it were in fact two separate amendments because of the four sections, however, because of the Rules of Procedure and the possibility that the MP should submit only one amendment to one member, and we are only talking about that Article 5, then that amendment consists of two continents. The amendment aims to increase the funds for the Human and Minority Rights Ministry in the first part, and in the second part to increase the funds proposed by this draft law, i.e. by amending the budget for the Refugees Committee. When it comes to the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, I propose to reduce the division of 15, which is a division bearing the title of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, which is the function or position envisaged for subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, i.e. read subsidies to the Public Enterprise "Skyalište", where an enormous amount of 2,641,000 dinars is foreseen. You've heard more than once from my fellow MPs that we've all shown you that this number is really too large and that it's not good that with some others, too, we've taken important positions and put them in that part, means the Public Business Ski resorts. I suggest that this amount be reduced by 91,532,000 and that it be transferred to division 26, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, and that classification -- grants to NGOs, so that the funds would be significantly increased, that is, the amount you propose, which is 76,805,000, changes and increases by making it 168,338,000. These funds are, in fact, intended for the work of all national councils of national minorities that have been formed so far. The funds are also intended, although only a provision for the Decade of Roma stands in the budget, as you know, for Serbia is chaired by the December 1st of this year, but these are not the funds just for the fact that Serbia presides over the Decada, that Serbia does something significant to improve and integrate members of the Roma national minority, which are definitely the most endangered group and part of our society. With this change, I just want to return it to the amount foreseen in the 2008 budget. The 2008 budget envisioned a amount of 168,000,000 dinars for the work of national councils and for the Decada Roma, and you have half cut that amount by this minority proposal. However, when the 2008 budget was voted, and its preparation was very actively attended by the then Human and Minority Rights Service, which was subsequently abolished because the ministry now exists, and at the head of the Human and Minority Rights Service was respected Mr. Petar Ladjevic. Mr. Petar Lađević then managed to manage to increase the amount foreseen for funding of national councils, so that they could work quality. I will also remind myself that the Republic of Serbia has ratified the most important international agreements protecting the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities. We also ratified the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe. The constitution stipulates that the Republic of Serbia protects the rights of national minorities and guarantees special protection to minorities, in order to achieve full equality and preserve their identity. In addition to the rights guaranteed by the Constitution to all citizens, national minorities are guaranteed additional individual and collective rights. Under the 2002 Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, minorities can choose their national councils. So I think 18 different national councils have been formed so far. Councils have public authority in the field of official use of language and letter, education, culture and information. The law also stipulates that the state provides funds for the work of all national councils. They are used to carry out regular activities, but also to finance various projects of importance for national minorities. So if we look at the budget, and it is, as a political issue, not as an economic issue, it is in any case an economic issue, but it is primarily a political issue, because when the government sends us its draft budget, and in this case changes and supplements, it shows what its priorities are. So we in the budget see exactly what this government plans to do, doesn't plan to do, of course where it's visible, where it's not, then we'll guess. If the budget is a reflection and a picture of the policy that one government is running, then this is what I was talking about is devastating. This is another illustration of how much DS actually cares about national minorities. Their mouths are full of concerns about minority rights and everything is fine as minority members vote for DS and Boris Tadic. I would like to make an example out of my Dimitrovgrad about the relationship between the DS municipal board and the national council of the Bulgarian national minority and the Bulgarian nationality at all. During the presidential campaign in January of this year, the then president of the Dimitrovgrad Municipality Assembly, who is also the president of the Democratic Party of Bulgarians in Serbia, urged his members and supporters to vote in the presidential elections as candidate for minority, Mr Istvan Pastor, who was then running for president of the Republic. The DS municipal board then asked the gentleman to resign immediately as speaker, only because he did not support Boris Tadic as president. There was a correspondence in the paper, I also found on the internet, where this gentleman, I do not want to mention his name on purpose, it is not right, defends the next sentence - this is an attack on me, although I have actively participated in making a decision that the square in the city centre is named Dr Zoran Djindjic, as well as that his wife Ruzica Djindjic becomes an honorary citizen of Dimitrovgrad. Now I would say something about the second part of my amendment, which is the 3rd and 4th positions, and that is an attempt, too, to return to the Commissioner for Refugees the funds provided for in the 2008 budget. By rebalancing, you suggest reducing some items. I propose that from Section 3, which is the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration, and that is the amount intended for services under contract, you have probably noticed that a lot of MPs wanted to be taken from that function, we definitely believe that there is too much money for services under contract, and that the amount is reduced by 18,345,000. That amount would be transferred to division 48, which is the Commissioner for Refugees, and that is to the position provided for buildings and construction facilities. Again, this is an attempt to return to the 2008 budget, not this rebalancing, where the budget envisioned that 40 million dinars were allocated for these purposes. I checked in the Commissioner, to be sure exactly what these funds are for - buildings and construction facilities, although I assumed, and here they confirmed what I was thinking, which is that these funds are intended for material and technical maintenance of collective housing centres for refugees and displaced persons. According to the plan for the gradual closure of collective centres, the number of collective centres is significantly smaller than it was, say, a few years ago. However, there are still 75 collective centres in the territory of the Republic of Serbia that accommodate 7,000 people. They're people who haven't been able to get their property back. It is mainly refugees from Croatia, while people who have escaped from BiH in time have managed to return their property, and these are people who have not found a suitable solution yet. That's where the state has to help them a lot more. So, I don't mean to sound pathetic, but I don't think it's right for us to find the right place to save. So there are 75 collective centers. These are high maintenance costs, the conditions in those centers are very bad. However, do not let us reduce the money that was intended for it. I sincerely hope, Madam Minister, that I convinced you, my colleagues did, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6160	Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Dimitrijevic, by amendment, you have two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this amendment is good and should be accepted. I will focus my attention on one thing Mrs. Banovic suggested, which is the distribution of funds to the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. Before we see how the current government treated this problem. So, before the government was formed, we had one proposal for the ministries, the composition of the government. As I recall, the amendment of an DS MP, who happens to be president of the DS Executive Board, to the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, was dislocated, or transferred to the Ministry of Justice, so he didn't even know the full role, I don't think even fate. When opposition MPs asked the question of what the government's composition is, what is the number of ministries, why is there no ministry, where the amendment is, the amendment was lost from about 8:30 in the morning, when it was handed over, by 4:30 in the afternoon. When a lot of traffic was made and the issue was raised in its political form and significance, then the amendment appeared and then there was a sharp political discussion between the authorities and the opposition. (President: Time. ) The result of such a relationship between the ruling coalition and the ministry is also the funds provided for by the budget rebalance. So it turns out once again that this is a completely irresponsible government... (President: Time. Would you like to bring the end? )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6162	On Article 5, section 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2(2) point 1. One and six. Budgetary system law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6163	It's about an amendment that treats the individual funds for the government's vice president's cabinets. I'm going to make a general conclusion at the end, but it's interesting that by adopting the 2008 budget for this activity we had through division 3, the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister and that was the amount of 91,739,000. So, by deciding on the government's election, the way the government was elected in this home, it was known that we had four vice presidents and knew what their obligations were. Why, in the meantime, from adopting budgets to rebalances, the decision was made to set costs aside by cost-bearers, i.e. that each vice president was directly responsible for the amount of funds he would spend, for the number of people he would hire, I don't know that. I guess this government wants a clean bill policy and doesn't want to be held accountable for the misbehaving of someone who's not from her party. I could understand that, but four vice presidents, one of whom they call vice presidents for economics or regional development, and everything else that has to do with finances, is someone who got the amount of $29 million in this rebalancing fund, that the vice president of social policy got 10 million, that the first vice president, or the deputy prime minister, got 17,430,000... (President: Mr Saviću, do not disturb Mrs Tabakovic as she speaks.) )......................................................................................................... and that the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration, Mr Djelic, received 91,740,000. And for all vice presidents, the vice president's office, was intended for as much as now for Mr. Djelic alone. What are these new areas, competencies, jobs for these other people in the meantime, that millions of other dinars were to be allocated to them? The "Forward, Serbia" parliamentary club, with its amendment, has determined that for all vice-presidents in one section, the amount of funds the cabinet of the Prime Minister has. I don't see that someone co-ordinated by the work of the entire government should have less resources than the four superhumans, of whom is the leading Mr Dinkic, or those less capable of having more than the cabinet of the Prime Minister? Why is that so controversial? It's a dispute that you thought a compromise called the coalition government would cost less. It turns out it has to cost a lot more, because in a circle called economic power conditions political decisions there are those who want to create economic power out of political decisions. In this triangle, power, politics and money is actually happening to the sun of the state and citizens, the growth of a political elite that sees its basic motivation in terms of politics. That I'm right to speak on page 109, where it says that according to this basis, the government's decision to form the vice president's office has increased the number of perpetrators and that it has been increased in cabinets by 73 newly employed. Dear citizens, dear colleagues, I ask all of you, is this one of today's most frightening absurdities that as you talk about saving and the international financial crisis and tightening of belts, you are introducing a budget for new purposes spent, hiring some new people, where you are saying that public enterprises need to reduce the number of people, that orders from abroad and the EU will be less and less and that will mean less production, the possibility of firing. Where are the effects in these newly employed people? I am convinced that this government has precise data that the amount of expenditure from 2001 to 2008 is higher than that of this year 2008 and was higher only in 2002. So the revenues in the total gross social product in what we call the budget were somehow balanced in 2001, 2003, 2004 and 2005, and 2006, even in 2007. But we had 580 million incomes and 567 million in thousands of dinars of expenditure. In this year, we already have expenditures beyond revenue and there is no need to have any data that you have as a ministry or a National Bank. It's enough to know that there's nothing more to sell, that we're from JAT, like public enterprises going to tender, we quit because there are no customers. It's not us. It's Mr. Dinkich. There are no inflows that will allow for the coverage of these increased expenditures. We know our loan payments are coming in. Even if interest is equal, constant and not increased, we enter the zone, at a time when it's harder and harder to service that budget hole that's called an undeniable commitment. If the uncontested commitment of the state has already been taken over, is it undeniable that we are increasing budget spending by opening such budget divisions for cabinets that, as you know, once you establish as a cost, it will hardly be possible in any new future government any coalition partner will give up the right to have at least one vice president. One of his well-deserved political workers, who probably doesn't understand a job professionally and specifically, but will love to have a cabinet, and a secretary, and a car and hire this many people, because, for God's sake, this mentality means having a function and calling, and behind it doesn't have to stand any work. We simply have to send clear messages to the citizens that will not confuse them. We can't talk about saving, and we can't waste it. We can't talk about belt tightening and having new budget users and new demands. Yes, these are new, the Government Act says, the number of vice-presidents and ministries is being established by the Ministry Act. You, not changing that law, have introduced a new consumption category, normally, with increased amounts of money. There's still the most controversial thing. When two people, when two people, when two ministries are in charge of the same job, that job will almost certainly not be done properly. When you have a overlap of jurisdiction between the vice president and the ministry, when you have a overlap between the ministry and the agency or the authority of the administration, the responsibility for informally will always be transferred to the other side, but the budget money line will stand on one level and expect their expenditures to be financed. For reasons of efficiency, for the reasons of learning the responsible spending of money coming into the budget, please, all parliamentary groups have made such a request, that you actually execute a reduction of funds intended for one's vanity and for the settlement of the coalition, because these misunderstandings that correct money and cost us all too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6164	Thank you. We'll continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we continue the session's work in the afternoon, by discussing the details of Article 5, Section 3, on which the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5th of the amendment, the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6166	Dear fellow Members of the People, as many as 10 of you are in the O.R., I would ask you to wait for Mrs. Minister to come here because I want to address her first and explain my amendment to her, to convince her that the government needs an amendment to accept. If you don't mind, Mrs. Comic, let's wait another five minutes. We started working, here's my watch two minutes early. If not, I can explain the amendment, but I don't think that would be correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6167	I am fully agreed and we will wait for Prime Minister Diana Dragutinovic's representative, in the building, to see her in the hallway, so she will come. You can return to your post and we will only wait for the government's minister and associates to take their place in the Assembly so that, with the presence of the promoter, they can start working in the afternoon part of the session. Therefore, working conditions have been created and I call on Parliament Gordan Pop-Lazic to take part in the debate on details.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6168	Dear fellow Members of the People, Madam Minister, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 of the Budget Rebalancing Act, section 3, chapter 3.4, function 110, in the economic classification 411, where I ask that in columns 6 and 8, the amount of 10,000 be replaced by 6,000,000. I don't know if this assessment is good either, but given the current situation, I think the cabinet still has to work, but whether with as many employees and as much money allocated to the employees, especially given that a large amount is being allocated to the contract, which is usually the ones who aren't constantly employed, and something is being done for the needs of the Deputy Prime Minister, and there are as many as 12 million dinars planned. I think there's a fraud in there, and in fact all those who work for the Deputy Prime Minister, this is about Minister Dinkic and Deputy Prime Minister, it's actually 22 million dinars. When we saw the proposal for budget rebalancing, we immediately realized that we had a government, only then might we have realized that we had a government, because before that there were no results of this government and it was very expensive. However, this budget is not a fruit of the government's work, but prepared by the previous government and since more than planned has been spent, it is necessary to rebalance it. The previous government has calculated that 650 billion will be enough for this year, another 45 billion has been spent and hence the need to rebalance the budget and that we are subsequently verifying all that spending. It is not a long century of this government and hence truly doubtful that this kind of funding was necessary. This only shows us that ministers, as well as the Government in general, have dealt with their status and party interests, i.e. seeking to provide funds or have already spent funds for what they consider to belong to them, means a number of professional workers, advisers, translators, I don't know what everything, to spend hard-earned taxpayers' money. We know, and every citizen should know that this money isn't some imaginary money, this budget is filled with taxes that make up tax revenues, excises, customs, other tax revenues, so that's all in our pocket and that's why interest in how this money is spent. It's interesting that no government since 2000, and believe me, I don't expect you to do it either, or the Prime Minister, will prepare us a final bill and explain how money has been spent. It wasn't the practice of previous governments, those that were before 2000, but here's how many MPs are looking for what really belongs to them, as government controllers, to see that final bill, we've never received it before. So we can't even know how you spent up to the bottom of this money. Three million dinars are foreseen here for the travel expenses of the cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister, and the first Deputy Prime Minister, which I assume is something more significant, 2.5 million dinars, and only one million and 800,000 dinars will be spent for Mr. Krkobic. However, Mr Sutanovac has even been available to travel a billion and 628 million, it is probably about the cost of taxpayers and spent the day before in Književec, he was a guest of a television show, and there he said one threat to the citizens of Književec, that if they did not vote in favour of the Democratic Party-G17 Plus coalition, that is, if co-operation is not established with the Republic Government or with the authorities in Belgrade, that this and how it will affect their further development, which I think is far from decent, and that I am not talking about that it is not politically relevant at all. But the threat is a threat, and it's certainly not a job for a minister, when you say the minister of the military, it's kind of awe-inspiring to hear or say, but when you say Sutanovac, you kind of get that mood, because there's no way that name goes with this kind of sound function. So I've already said that services under contract, for which we don't even know what they're done for, or whether these 12 million are needed, and for the salaries of 10 million, somehow it just doesn't make sense to me. Maybe if it were the other way around, I realize that there are sometimes some special needs to pay for a service, but it should be symbolic, and not even more than the pay-out. These days on the political scene, some of the characters who allegedly withdrew from political life, are our immature democracy, so here we had the opportunity to see on TV this meeting of Olli Ren and Miskovic, I don't know what quality, but there was Mr Labus, who spoke excellent English, known to us, and I think we'll remember him by the affair "Sartid", sugar affair, Ericson affair, but here he announces at the big door that he will return to the political scene. I would like to invite you to accept this amendment of mine, to consider it and to announce to you the withdrawal from the political scene of a person who has imagined that he has some kind of leadership quality. I'll show you why I think it would be moral, because before me, there was one person of suspicious morality, since she got in a car with a person like that. That's one, (shows a photo) here, Uncle Tomina's ergel car - damage, alpha Romeo, Audi, Citroen c4, Honda, and this sitroen c4 doesn't even have a license plate, so almost got by some tycoon, so there's Uncle Toma likes obvious horses, horsepower, and besides five houses, you couldn't see in that picture all the houses, just one, not beautifully painted, here are five cars. Whether a man can drive five cars at the same time really doesn't know, but it shows how much their amendments or their persuasion that you need to rationalize something in this budget, and of course you should, just let go of demagogy. Believe me, if by any miracle, anywhere, at any level of government, these people found themselves would all be doing for the benefit of general damage and people's damage, but in their own interest, anyway, here, in this style. However, they swore before God, before the people and their Orthodox faith that they would guard their name and their honor, and that by the glory of their ancestors and the future of their descendants, they would advocate that the programme and statutes of the party that brought them into this Parliament would guard and explain them, but this is how faith is trampled, and of course what they allegedly fought for decades. Of course, the reason for that is ergel, are houses, are apartments and things like that. Today we read in the newspaper that whoever calls himself a deputy party "take everything that life gives you" is thus publicly denied the border of Karlobag-Ogulin-Karlovac-Virovica, that it is inconclusive, although he boasted that he was born through Drina and that it is his homeland. Now that doesn't apply, the Republika Srpska Krajina is no longer important, we don't have to advocate that one day, of course, when the conditions are obtained, let's implant all these Serbian territories. The reason is good wine, good basements, hedonistic desires and pleasures, cars, houses, cottages and the like. Of course, there's a lot more to it, but we'll talk about it later, it's not very nice to bring it all out all of a sudden, it's better if the public is so interested in following us, we'll be bringing out what people bring us every day. This is no photo montage, this is what the citizens who are truly amazed at what this man has managed to do with his, which we say, humble parliamentary wages.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6169	Anyone else want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic. The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is four minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6170	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are seeing a big debate these days regarding pensioners and their promised raises. I wonder why there's no peasant pensioner among these pensioners. There's no one who receives 7,200 dinars a month. There's no one who works to his grave, which even though he's getting that pension, he's got to let go, feed the herd or anything else to make his family a living so he can make a bar for a glass of cold water. Usually, when I see an old pensioner walking around with his hands on his back, I say, it's good, yet let him enjoy what he did in his youth, at least enjoy his old age, but I wonder if and when a peasant pensioner will be able to walk with his hands on his back or his roadside or his garden or anywhere else, but he can't, because he has to work to avoid being on the burden of his household. I'm talking about pensioners because they have to fight to raise their pension so they can support their children or their grandchildren. It's very important because their children and their grandchildren don't work anymore because the economy doesn't work. I'm asking you -- where the farmer is going to waste his time, where the farmer is going to collect those incomes, how he's doing the wheat production, and at the moment... I apologize again, I didn't turn it off, I usually turn off the phone, but now I've been forced to come out for this amendment. When wheat is harvested and handed over, you usually take off the price, so instead of being 14, 16 and 18 dinars, now the price of wheat is 10 dinars, and you see the price of mineral fertilisers. If it deals with the production of corn, it was even 20 dinar corn, but it was banned from export, so now that it's plentiful, it's under seven dinars. If you look at pig meat production, the price was 40 dinars. People slaughtered their native nests. Now you've increased their price to 160-170 dinars, but now that what he had had to be slaughtered, look at the price of meat in the shops. Whoever pays for it, now you look, there's the Ministry. Look at the price of the hero, just as it was the price of the hero, so when people got rid of the fight... That's what I'm telling you because I do this production myself, and I know it pretty well. See where this country goes and who thinks of it. Neither does the government think of it, nor does the Ministry of Agriculture, nor does this mean the Ministry of Finance, because you probably don't know whether wheat is being sown now or maybe wheat is being sown in the spring. What is also very important is that in this country we sell everything, raw materials, but finished product, we sell the final product to those who return the final product to us, so they sell us at expensive prices and more expensive prices. Everything and everything comes to this country from other European countries. Now I'm going to finish up a little bit after the time's up. Everything and everything is imported, but there's no food control, no raw materials coming from abroad. But I'm also asking you -- did this government help those who are in Kosovo and Metohija to Serbs or non-Albanian population, at least in terms of agriculture, in terms of fuel subsidies? I don't believe that you helped them, but you left them alone, that they can do what they can do again, but when the elections come, then all the ministers shine and spread their hands, and say - vote, we'll take care of you, as Eulex is now trying to spread out, but I don't see Boris Tadic anything trying to stop it. There's Natasa Kandic, there's Sonja Licht, there's all the NGOs they call Boki from Boris's mercy. There are those with him, and it is important that you finance them and them well to think, not to think about the citizens of Serbia. Not much worse, I'm glad you're thinking about the pensioners, but you've got a good sweat, not these tortured pensioners, who are under 10,000, a lot to think about.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6171	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, section 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Pelevic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1) and (3). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, section 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, so Lidija Dimitrijevic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6172	This is one in the series of amendments to section 3 and 5 of Article 5 — it is the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Policy and Social Action. Mr. Momir Markovic proposes to replace the 411 million in this classification with a million. He refers, first of all, to the salaries and earnings of employees in that cabinet. It's an opportunity to talk about how salaries are set for employees and what is in the framework of this state service. Yesterday I was saying that, according to the government's data, in the light of this budget rebalance, which is the state, which is para-state functions, there are 260,000 employees in total. Now I have to draw attention to you, if we assume that these 260 thousand employees are in the same position as 260 thousand employees in the economy, then it must be noticed that, in addition to various activities, these 260 thousand people are protected, as if they have honorable legions, an honorary order, and they work in France, or they're in Italy, so on. Signore, civil servants, because it's a real privilege in the West for a man to work in a civil service. His salary and his position depend on nothing, not even what's going on on the market. If we consider that the government is an employer for 260,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia, then we must say that it is a bad employer. Why is he a bad employer? Because he's working on the instruments of coercion so that this firm of theirs can be successful on the market. Their company is not equal to other firms, because they have an instrument of law, they have another instrument of competent authorities that collect funds and have an instrument that distributes these funds and have another instrument, to teach everyone how they should be successful in economic life. And they prove their success by proving that, in addition to guaranteed salaries, problematic contributions, whether they are paid or not, we have services under contract, we have other things that represent a clean cost. At 260,000 employees, if you take 260,000 employees in the state administration, if you take what is the cost of their business, past salaries and compulsory contributions, rather than other costs, you will see that they are the most inefficient enterprise if they can be reduced to a company rank. That's the basic problem. The laws are protected as a medium, there is little that disciplinary responsibility in some of the state's authorities, the question is how and how it is implemented, but they are protected. Only one who works in a state-owned public enterprise and in a state service can count on having some rights of employment, all others who are still or outside of it "cooking" with their labour rights, both in terms of annual rest and in respect of other rights they have. Of course, so many cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister's office as our economic situation are considered large. We believe that citizens of the Republic of Serbia should not and should not pay for all coalition agreements, because if someone came into power to interpret it in this way, as being pushed here, however, there were 19 parties before, perhaps these coalition governments were more expensive, but if this were interpreted as a rule of conduct, then it would really not be possible to organise a normal life in this country without the government being such a distraction. We must not pay all coalition agreements, because these coalition agreements are not so much in the function of achieving the functions of the state in all segments, but in satisfaction, above all, the appetite of those who make up the coalition government, because they operate under the feed system. It's not in that sense an exception, it didn't start with this Cvetkovic government now, it's been before. It used to be more pronounced, some times less pronounced. Probably not so prominent by 2000, but since 2001, it has been overly stressed. The proof of that is the movement of the number of employees in the state administration. There used to be seven or eight thousand, now it's 23-24, as you wrote here. This amendment specifically refers to this cabinet, where this vice president is in charge of these social issues and I am trying to find out how many employees he has. They're newly employed. There was no cabinet like this before. It's now 15 new employees. Since this government was elected, this Deputy Prime Minister has been elected, the new 15 has been employed. Ganc polished came to the cabinet. Why? To serve the Deputy Prime Minister. Is that necessary, it is not necessary, but it is necessary for the government to function because it is a coalition and should ultimately cost all taxpayers in the Republic of Serbia 10.4 million dinars. Unnecessary expense. Of course, I could open up here, but I'd just like to open up at a level of principle, not tie it to a person, so we understand each other right now, so you don't get me wrong, because I know that you recognize what this is about, at the level of principle, I'm opening a dilemma. I see already several people who are absolutely competent to answer that question. The entire pension insurance system, among other things, is based on the fact that when a man turns 65 he is considered to have lost his job ability. That's why it puts it as a living condition for retirement -- 65 years of life and 15 years of insurance training. It changes sometimes, it decreases years of age -- 60 years of life, 20 years of insurance, earlier -- women 55 years of age, etc. The age of 65 is a presummation that the lost general health care ability to perform work and start a working relationship. That's what happened. Medicine still knows that. We have cases in some professions that have been in a working relationship for over 70 years. University professors probably can show their maximum then, there are lawyers, we have a lot of lawyers in courts who, regardless of those years, work, but they're already free professions, that's what you have to say. When it comes to public service, I think it should be fully respected. Of course, don't tie this to a person at all, to be even more open, I don't know if today, but even up to a year ago in the ministry at Rasim Ljajic was a child of a fallen fighter, 73 years old, he worked. I think it came from Split or Dubrovnik. I have a last name somewhere, but it's irrelevant to this story, it's his age, everything and everything we have in this and this government. This and this government at every turn demonstrates that the law is very stretching, like owning it, so it can be applied, and it doesn't have to be applied. You can see it, and you can close your eyes. We don't need to hide from this side, we have an obligation to criticise this concept that you have four cabinets of vice presidents, of which you seem to have two or three who are ministers at the same time. These are costs that we simply cannot pay as a state, as a people and as taxpayers. That's where you were supposed to make some savings. If you care so much about these cabinets, they had to be protocold with several employees. First of all, I think of these cabinets where Djelic, Dinkic, Dacic is located. Why? Because they're ministers at the same time, and then they're not breaking up as individuals? Now we don't know if they're tearing each other apart like this, but they're tearing each other apart, so they're a little bit over there, a little bit over there. That's totally unacceptable to me. I think it's a lot of vice presidents and it's a lot of expenses. There used to be only three vice-presidents of the government. What were there three of them for? Because all matters in the jurisdiction of the state are divided into three areas: the state administration, social activities and economies. They were three vice-presidents and each of them had their own set of ministers and a set of portfolios in some way held and agreed on their work, in that sense there were three committees within the government, which gave a passable power to all acts that went from the ministry to the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6173	The word has a folk MP, Lidija Dimitrijevic, available to the SRS parliamentary group for four minutes. After her, the next MP is Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government has decided not to accept the amendment submitted by counterpart Markovic, on the basis of an explanation that the proposed reduction of expenditure on salaries in the budget user, the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Policy and Social Action, on that appropriation, would jeopardise the financing of expenditure on the salaries of this budget user and, accordingly, the necessary activities in relation to social policy and social action, in accordance with the competences and needs of this budget user established by the Government Act. The 2008 budget law of the Republic of Serbia has not been planned for the cabinet. After the May elections and the new post-election coalition, it happened that we now have four cabinets of the government's vice-president, resulting from the settlement of coalition partners. For the work of the cabinets of the government's vice-president for social policy and social action, a rebalancing of 10 million 430 thousand dinars is foreseen, out of which two million dinars are provided for salaries, allowances and employees' fees. I will not talk about what is most often related to the work of this cabinet, about promises relating to pension increases, I will talk about another segment of social policy that has long since been neglected. We are aware that we have been threatened by the white plague for years back as a nation. The government has made no effort to improve population policy with a single letter. The law on financial support for families with children is not at all stimulating for future parents, and for those who already are. That an extremely bad population policy tells us the following data: the amount of parenting allowance that the state allegedly helps parents at birth is for the first child 24 thousand 437 dinars and eight pairs, for the second 95 thousand 558 dinars of 16 pairs. Most families in Serbia have mostly one or two children and these amounts are humiliating. For a third child, it is 171,000 996 dinars and 96 pairs, and for four, 222,000 326 dinars and 72 pairs, with rare families having a third and fourth child. The right to a child's allowance can be achieved by families whose family incomes do not exceed the amount of 5,453 dinars and 77 pairs per family member, and the amount of child's allowance is 1,707 and 95 pairs per child. These 10 million 430 thousand, which will go as a budget expenditure for the administration, which is the product of a new hiring of merit party personnel, should be directed towards those who really need it, whose families have a monthly income of less than 5,453 dinararies 77 per member of the family, so that these people can raise and educate their children, and the conditions in individual schools have already been spoken by my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6175	Before I give my word to the People's MP, Slobodan Marash, just to give a notice on the basis of Article 85, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly today will work after 18 hours. MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6176	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Members of Parliament, when we talk about the budget, both expenditure and income, we must say that this is one of the biggest governments in the world. It's my opinion that India alone has a bigger government than we do. Since the past budget does not provide for four cabinets in this government, it is a certain expenditure, especially expenditure not planned by the government. Since it's under the amendment to the Deputy Prime Minister for Social Affairs, I'd like to try to process that segment right now. We had a chance to look at this budget rebalance and we saw that, among other things, the funds were missing and the Ministry of the Army. I come from Jablanic County, one of the poorest parts, where a month ago you had a riot of wartime military reservers, who eventually wanted to reach the prime minister and give them an explanation of when their payouts would be. Compensation to follow? Given that they have not received an adequate explanation, a group of the government of the Republic of Serbia has been formed, and until today, they have no explanation of when the compensation will be paid. I will remind you that during the election campaign, Boris Tadic visited the Toplički District and the Toplički County reserves received the compensation, while other reservers in Kosovo, those are Jablanic County reserves, Nisavsky, Pcinjski County, Resavski County, Raška County, did not receive the funds and they are asked to receive the funds from the judiciary. My question to the Minister, and later on, I'll talk about my amendment, when will that happen? Since I have seen that you have also taken those funds from the budget from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the question is when you will forward funds to wartime reservers, who and how they have bled in Kosovo, many have left their lives there, many have not returned from Kosovo, and they are rightly asking for those compensations to be paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6177	The word has an MP named Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6178	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we have spoken on several occasions today on this subject of the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister. As everyone probably knows, there are four vice presidents, four cabinets. Of course, this cabinet for which the amendment has been submitted, without any desire to disavow anyone, his work and importance, etc., I'm afraid it's more of a mask to make up for one party. But it's government policy, politics and these parties, and we have nothing more to add. We've got three other vice presidents. One is the first vice president, Deputy Prime Minister, to be introduced for the first time. We find that unnecessary, too. We also have the post of Deputy Prime Minister in charge of economic development, at the same time as Minister of Economy and Regional Development. We've already talked about it being a double, since there are 11 assistants and six secretary of state, several new advisors, etc. We're afraid there's gonna be a pile of people in those cabinets, and that's why the government's cash register's gonna be loaded. We have the fourth vice-president who is the Minister of Science, who in the previous government was Vice-President, Mr Djelic. I wanted to say something about that, too. Mr Djelic, during his time as Deputy Prime Minister, promised us both in January and in May, and in January, so we now signed the SAA in May, so a trade agreement will be activated in October, etc. But now we hear it's 2009 when we get candidate status. We welcome such activities, although we have criticised in the past that he had about 30 advisers in his post, the cabinet has received very large funds and we hope that he will justify these funds in his work, i.e. that Serbia will finally obtain candidate status in 2009. I wanted to point out the action he has as vice president. So, LDP, if it was known for something when it comes to the criticism of the current government, it is a criticism of the slowness of approaching the EU. So, we have consistently pointed out over time that it must go faster, that there are paths that can go faster and that this slow flow that we are approaching is not good for the state of Serbia and for all its citizens. Accordingly, the LDP became a member of the Association of Liberal and Democratic Parties of Europe yesterday. That's probably what you found out from the media. I want to tell you that the LDP, or Cedomir Jovanovic, who attended there, took one really big step for Serbia and this is not advertising but an attempt to show that something can really go faster. So we managed to implement a resolution signed by the Association of Liberal and Democratic Parties of Europe, which is done, under one pressure, which I think is most important, in the Netherlands. So we were able to work out a resolution like that. Even Dutch liberals said they would do anything to pressure their government to change its decision and to reduce its pressure on the state of Serbia, which stops candidate status, i.e. the activation of the trade agreement, etc. I think the adoption of this resolution shows that it is possible to find real partners in Europe, find those who are strong in Europe, and that the policy that we have had the opportunity to see lately, and which is illustrated in the foreign minister, may not be the best way to go. This is why we want to say that we have at least criticised Mr Djelic, that is, the existence of that cabinet, but this way we wanted to point out that we can really move much faster towards Europe, we just need to find the right partners, or we need to invest a lot of energy, give the right arguments, show that Serbia can be different from what Europe knows in recent years. I think this is our big contribution, and I hope that it will give an adequate result, that the pressure that will be put on this resolution that has made the associations of the Liberals and Democrats of the European parties, the resolution that was submitted to the LDP initiative, will make a major contribution and that the Netherlands will give way to this pressure on Serbia, and that as soon as possible, at the end of 2008, but indeed in 2009, we will get candidate status.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6179	Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6180	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to support the amendment of my colleague, Marash. I think he's extremely good. I like the idea of saving a little bit, even though we see that at a time when the whole world is saving and going into one big crisis, only our budget rebalance is being wasteful, it's falling apart, and where it has to and where it doesn't have to. On the one hand, we are very strained and we are saving up on programs that are very important for some groups of citizens, and on the other hand we are being terribly wasteful. A colleague, Marash, and several MPs here have repeatedly pointed out today how much is spent, say, on the cabinets of the prime minister. The prime minister's budget has 53m, and four vice-presidential cabinets have 150m. We act like we're a small government, and a huge country, there's so much resources that it can spend on anything. I think it's too much. On the other hand, we have a situation where the functions are doubled. Let's say, one resistor covers two men, the costs are doubled. If I take the economy, let's say, we have a vice-president of the government who deals with it, his budget is 30 million. We have a $37m budget minister, he deals with economic and regional development. Is there anything else besides this country? Perhaps that's exactly what Mr. Krkobibic meant when he said that there was room in the budget to save and that pensioners get that increase of 70% of the average personal income. Now that I mention pensioners, I have to mention that this moment is a very ugly situation -- that what is the jurisdiction of the state is taking over the city. Let's just say, out of 1.6 million pensioners, I don't know how many pensioners Belgrade has, but Mr. Gilas has found a way to allocate funds to the Belgrade City Fund to give pensioners a quarter of four thousand, and that's those pensioners who have a minimum pension of 13,000 downhill, so they're getting quarterly four thousand help, which is completely absurd. First, what is humiliating, it is minimal, secondly, that it has assumed the authority of those who are obliged to return that personal income to people who have earned their personal income on behalf of the pension, and at the same time it is a kind of promotion and campaign for those who have the funds. What do I do with pensioners in the city of Valjevo, from whom I come, who doesn't have that kind of budget. My mayor, who happens to be from the DS, has no possibility to tell his pensioners, it's ugly to tell my pensioners, but to the pensioners of the city of Valjev, under the jurisdiction of 4,000 in three months. It is absolutely unnecessary in this way to treat a very honorable category of citizens who, I say again, have earned their pension and their belongings. On the other hand, I have to point out that there's another very ugly thing going on right now. Public opinion is turning around and there is a campaign against pensioners seeking only their rights. Why is this campaign being made and why anger, and disappointment, and the anger of people, ordinary citizens, is turning to the pensioners at the moment when we cannot pay the pensioners what they are promised. It's very simple, I only have a few interesting statements that confirm that what I'm saying isn't meaningless. Ms Dragutinovic said: Either pensioners or Corridor 10, if I was wrong, I quote one newspaper title. I wasn't wrong. I was the one who wrote it. Mr. Bajatovic says, if it is given to pensioners, it must be taken from children. That's what he said on the Pyramid show on Pink TV. For example, Mr Dinkic says that this increase is like a house that burns gas. It's very distasteful, ugly, and it doesn't need to be overly commented on. I repeat, these people deserve their pension. They paid a minimum of 26% of their salary for all years and deserved to spend their age in peace and dignity. In this way, making a campaign and turning public opinion is not an honor to anyone. I think it's ugly and it should stop. Once again, the DSS stands for it: reduce where you can. Here you can. So many cabinets are unnecessary, there's room for savings and for giving to those who need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6181	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, section 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6182	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, what the opposition by its definition, or by the definition of its political engagement in all its political life, cannot wait, is the budget, for one simple reason why it still sees a certain tendency of the executive government and what kind of state it is actually trying to make. What the opposition should do, again by its definition, is try to help its amendments to help the executive government make life much more quality and bearable. It's a frantic fact, you'll correct me if I'm wrong, that from 84 amendments to the opposition's budget rebalance, you've adopted only one amendment during the debate in particular. It is simply unheard that everything the opposition tried to help the executive government, understanding the economic situation, the moment in which we all found ourselves, which could not be projected or projected, through this 84 amendment, none or just one was accepted as the possibility that we could all come together to the budget rebalancing, i.e. all together to make the savings possible. Why? Because in the state of Serbia, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this occasion of course and the general public of Serbia who is trying to hear and possibly feel some sort of announcement of the solutions for the days to come, 733,000 people according to official records are out of work. There are still half a million people below the poverty line. It is again unheard of to me that when it comes to the line of poverty, which is 8.830 dinars per household, fellow MPs are likely to have a discussion on some better life issues. We are currently seen by people who are trying to understand what they will be like in 2009 and 2010, who are daily in existential cramps, who are at great risk of losing those basic incomes that will make life worth living. All the opportunities we had to hear, ladies and gentlemen, through the exposés of the prime minister of the Serbian government, through pre-election promises, through coalition agreements, the public in Serbia needs to know, none of this will be possible for one simple reason, 2009 is the year of recession for Serbia. We have tried this amendment to point out, as well as the entire opposition, where all of this can in this budget rebalancing can be saved and possibly the means to focus where it is most necessary. There does not seem to be a population category in Serbia that will not be needed. This amendment, due to the public, provides for the General Secretariat of the Government to spend 94 million dinars, and we have suggested that the number be replaced by 80 million, because we felt that members of the General Secretariat should travel, but not this much. Why? Because the whole situation... Please, Madam Chairman, make it possible for this MP to bring this story to an end and bring order to the O.R. Thank you. So, the economic situation in the whole environment, and we're part of it, is unsustainable. For example, from one of the countries in the region, we learn that in the hints of the coming recession, and this is about Slovenia, employers announce that the financial crisis will rock the Slovenian labour market, which will most feel about 13,000 workers in construction and industry. First of all, the ones who came from abroad. The consequences are already seen, as contracts are not extended for a certain period of time, and it is evident that the layoff of foreign workers employed by employers is due to above average high economic activity in the past year. What should be expected, and the words of the Secretary-General of the Association of Employers of Slovenia, Mr Smole, are that the next phase will be to reduce labour costs and organisational changes in the management of technological processes. Some companies are already reducing the number of work shifts, for example from four to three, but they will certainly not be able to avoid the release of permanent employees. The Slovenian Employment and Employment Agency does not currently notice signs of the crisis, but it is also evident from the macroeconomic analysis that by the end of the year the job in Slovenia will lose around 13,000 workers in construction and industry, according to the rule of foreign. This is an example of countries in the region that are very close to us geostrategic, which have seriously launched political dialogue to prevent the effects of the global financial crisis. What we expected and what the opposition asked daily for all members of the government to come here to the Assembly and that we from the responsible, social governments hear what the plan and programme for the coming 2009 could be, when the greatest blow to all social structures is expected, especially in 2010. To illustrate one example that is, for example, the most colourful of us, what has been convincing us lately, about foreign banks that are domestic legal persons, but only with a foreign name, a story for them who should be able to understand the whole situation to be very simple and warning, not in terms of spreading panic, but in terms of warning what can happen to us. We expect to see in the next few days what kind of projection the government offers through the budget for the next year 2009. Whether it will be socially responsible or simply overcome certain problems and leave, as a legacy to the future of some future generations, as we now pay back foreign exchange savings through taxes, to pay back the terrible debts due to this situation. So the effects of the crisis that occurred on the world economic scene must be felt by us, especially through loans and through the existence of foreign banks, which are domestic legal persons and our state is guaranteed for everything that happens to these domestic legal entities here, but also how all these foreign banks actually correspond to the management and centralities from which they draw instructions on how to behave in the new circumstances. Why are we talking about this right now? Because we all have experience with old foreign savings. In time, some state has reprogrammed the default of the debts it had and eventually reached for the old foreign exchange savings, by cheating on certain people, our people abroad, by telling the story that "Belgrade Bank" would then give a higher percentage of interest than did Deutsche Bank, and eventually the old foreign savings went away. The bank governor at the time simply went as an uncondemned man, a banker who stole this people died as a person who was not convicted, and it could also happen in an announcement of a very turbulent time coming here to Serbia. What is an even bigger problem, and we expect to hear it in the days to come, perhaps it is not a topic for you, Madam Minister, but certainly is a topic of thought, especially since the International Monetary Fund delegation is visiting Serbia, how will the government be socially responsible in the perspective of behaving with such a huge state apparatus? I'd like a member of the government to come out here and tell us which state in Europe and the world has so many resistors, there are so many cabinets, there are so many employees? Especially a state that does not have a basic economic activity, especially a country that does not have exports, especially a state that does not have a basic activity, on the basis that it can place security on its citizens and possibly, according to its profile within international financial institutions, be a serious partner. I am more than interested in how your talks with the International Monetary Fund delegation, in which way you explain to them that public spending is so large, especially in the light of the global economic crisis, that you will not be able to find solutions because the coalition agreement is so difficult and so strong, that the most profitable job in the state of Serbia is working for the state and the para-state, in terms of some agencies, that in the state of Serbia there is no atmosphere where a man will start some kind of independent work, that there is no basic economic activity in Serbia, there is no economy. In which way you can go to any serious partner that you have to cooperate with and say, we are serious about this, we can take the loan or loan that you are currently giving us, to overcome the social problems that are in the announcement. What is particularly important to me is the way in which you will explain to Serbian citizens in 2009 that it will not be possible to raise wages, that it will not be able to pay 70% of the personal income, that it will have to be spared, that the obligations will be growing, because of the citizens of Serbia, who are standing only on counters and wages, are only expected to meet their obligations, the rights are not, freedoms are choked, Madam Minister, with existential fear of survival. Because to people in Serbia, the only fear that has overcome the fear of death is fear of losing their jobs, and only those who work within the state system work. That's why our public spending seems what it looks like and that's why this government, with these projections, can't be serious. Why can't it be serious yet? Because all of these problems, instead of becoming a real reform government, or that one in 2000 was reform, would take away this argument from us, to place it in the future. You will now overcome the problems, knowing that you will not experience the end of the mandate, and that is political calculation, and the people in Serbia know it, so you will reprogramme for those who come after. They will most likely reprogramme it for those who come after, and the people in Serbia will slowly, but surely skate into debt slavery or they are more conscious to look to get out of Serbia's borders and leave. This is not, of course, a political score. It might be in some different circumstances, if we weren't facing a very serious situation but in the first quarter of 2009. In part, I can understand you, but then there's this correct political and professional decision to come out and say -- we can't solve this problem the way we thought, this emerging situation is what it is, the picture is supposed to look like, these are solutions. That, Madam Minister, the opposition tried to do with 84 amendments. The public in Serbia should know that in this situation, the opposition has taken more social responsibility and behaves socially more responsibly days ago. We'll finally see 2009 and in early 2009, what kind of situation will we be, are we finally going into the election year?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6183	The People's MP Nikola Savic came forward. At your disposal for 30 seconds. The word is by MP Milan Dimitrijevic, followed by MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6184	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come out to support this amendment by MP Marine Ragush. So, just like that, when you look at this item about travel expenses at the General Secretariat of the Government, I can tell you that the General Secretariat of the Government is 112 employees. As the estimated cost of a 94 million dinar trip turns out to be about 830,000 dinars per employee. But, ladies and gentlemen, the average salary in Serbia is 33,000 dinars, and on an annual level, 12 such salaries, makes up a sum of 396 thousand dinars, and on a two-year level is 792 thousand dinars. According to this, it turns out that the travel costs of the government's General Secretariat go beyond the average average salary in Serbia. This Serbian public must know. If we know that, then we know why there's no money for health care. If we know that, then we know why there's no money for school. If we know that, then we know why there can't be an increase in pensions. Mr. Prime Minister says in his exposé -- at last, a functional analysis of jobs in the state-run local administration will be joined with the aim of making their optimalisation. In this connection, appropriate acts will be adopted to halt the practice of continued growth in the number of employees. Here's the performance from Mr. Prime Minister's exposé. One employee at the General Secretariat spends more on travel costs than the two-year average salaries in Serbia. The Socially Responsible Government takes care of the population. So you would draw the last penny out of this nation's pocket. You, right now, only according to this item, if you had any responsibility, you would resign this minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6185	The word is by MP Nenad Popovic. The DSS parliamentary group is available for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6186	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, let me get up and add the same little inaccuracy of the data in the material we have in front of us. At the very beginning of the analysis of the text, we come up with the question of what is the real amount of planned revenue, because on the same side we have two different figures when it comes to budgeting -- 649.7 billion and 650.1 billion dinars. It is an error of 410m dinars or about 5m euros, so it would be very important to clarify this issue, as the Law on the Budget System in Article 4rd paragraph 3 provides that one of the principles in preparing and implementing the budget and the principle of accuracy. I'll just give you some more examples of errors or discrepancies, Madam Minister. On page 106, there is a problem with the comparative review of budget expenditure, as it lists the incorrect amount on line 411, salaries and additions of staff foreseen by the 2008 budget. Indeed, the 2008 budget envisions the amount of salaries in the public administration from 141 billion to 226 million dinars, which is around 170m euros, while the budget spending accounts for 140 billion and 431 million. I don't know why, but the difference is close to 800 million or close to 10 million euros. I don't know why there's that mistake. The next mistake is in the amount of money for other staff expenditures. In the 2008 Budget Law, the total figure for this item is 8 billion and 148 million dinars, around 100m euros. This is the planned expenditure, and a comparative review of the expenditure of the 2008 rebalancing budget shows that 10 billion 646 million are planned in this item. The difference is two billion and 500 million, close to two billion and 500 million dinars. These are the commitments made in 2008 on behalf of staff expenditure which are not planned but now have to finance them. It's very difficult, believe me, that the MP in these numbers is getting along because they're constantly changing. These are, of course, technical failures. For us, the fundamental disadvantages of this proposal are much more important, but I want to point to the principle of making this budget, that there are many technical mistakes. I'll comment on the budget's planned revenue. In projections, say, taxes, how are they planned to charge taxes? By increasing the capacity of the tax administration, probably. Let's get in line. The income tax of citizens; for the first nine months of this year, 53.2 billion dinars were charged, and if we continue with this dynamic by the end of the year, which is realistically expected, nothing will change, we will reach the figure of 70.9 billion dinars, Madam Minister, and you have rebalanced 76. So dynamics absolutely don't fit. Furthermore, the extra value tax for the first nine months, VAT taxes, has been charged 224 billion dinars. If we use this dynamic in nine months, we get to 298.6 billion at the end of the year, and you're rebalancing 315 billion dinars. I have to admit, the season is the strongest in summer or early in the year, but I don't see any reason at the end of the year, I don't see the VAT changing, but okay, we'll see. Akcis, let's see at the excise. For the first nine months, 73.1 billion were charged. After this dynamic at the end of the year, we get to 97.4 billion, and you've predicted 102 with your rebalancing. We have a completely different dynamic again. I wish you were right, but I think time will deny you. The rate of increase in expenditure for employees. The rebalancing proposal states that there is a reduction in expenditure on public administration employees' salaries, a reduction in the expenditures "because of the fact that there has been no reception of new employees in the state administration even though this is planned". When this part of the rebalancing is analysed, it is seen that wage expenditure is indeed reduced, but total expenditure, I repeat, has increased the total staff expenditure by around 2.8 billion dinars. Someone has to explain to me what the other expenditures are because their growth has produced that, despite the cuts in pay-outs of 1.8 billion, we have then a rise in employee costs of exactly 800 million dinars. It's completely non-transparent, you can't see how we're cutting wages, and the expenditures are increasing, so I'd like you to give us an answer. Also, the item increases the expenditure of non-transparent budget positions. At the positions of specialised services and services under the contract, the 2008 budget envisions an allocation of around 17.2 billion dinars, and now envisions an increase in these allocations of 710 million dinars. I have to admit that this amount of about 200m euros for purposes that are completely unknown, are called so non-transparent, once again proving the approach this government has towards taxpayers' money, and now it is increasing. This must be the most lenient concept of this budget, and that is why I think that the next period really needs to pursue a complete reform of the budgeting system, because we are going to get into a situation where we have these items, and we don't really know what the purposes are. I'd also like to say something later on about the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development's purpose. To be precise, at the function of 473 tourism, the economic classification of 451, subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations is indicated - part of this 100 million dinar appraisal is intended for tourism organisations, please listen carefully now, destination management organisations. I have to admit, here, I've been in business for 18 years, I've never heard of the term destination management of the organization, so I'd like someone to explain to me what it is. Part of the 190m dinar funding is for the Serbian Tourist Organisation. Part of the budget of 1,098 billion is intended for tourism infrastructure development programmes, and the schedule for using these funds is based on a special act by the government. Part of the 1,253 billion funding is intended for ski resorts for the construction, modernisation and equipment of ski centres. I just want to point out that this amount of 1,253 billion for ski tracks is identical to the total investment and investment maintenance of education facilities, completely identical. So we have 30,000 skiers in Serbia, and we have over a million children in education institutions. Investments in education institutions are exactly the same investment in ski resorts. I don't know if we've shown these things what's more important to this government. Also, at the economic classification of 621, the acquisition of domestic financial assets is scheduled to be spent on 200 million dinars for, listen carefully, establishing and financing the work of companies for the development of tourism and tourist destinations under the tourism development strategy and special master plans. All over the world, all ski resorts, in Switzerland, Austria, France, have two owners. One owner is private enterprises, and the other owns the municipalities on which the ski resorts are located. Nowhere in Europe, or anywhere near anywhere, perhaps only on some exceptions, countries do not deal with ski resorts. Repeat, it has to be done by the private sector, or it has to be done by municipalities. The other thing, we here again, I said, the state returns to some period of communism when the state owned the company. On the one hand, we have privatisation, on the other hand, we're investing in Fiat. We are now investing again in businesses, establishing and financing the work of companies for the development of tourism. Tourism should deal with the private sector. There's no need for the state to deal with anything that's not electricity, oil, gas. Everything beyond that is a return to a period of communism. We'll have the privatisation again. I repeat what I said last time, as it started, we can freely shut down the Privatisation Agency and form a new company management agency. I'm glad you're laughing too, Madam Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6187	Anyone else want a word? The word is Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6188	Obviously, this amendment should be accepted, because it is better to stop investing as a socially responsible government in tourist-destination management, circulatory chips and youth ski resorts on every dog in Serbia, and here's a November with 25 degrees of temperature, and on the other hand, we promise a larger pension, a larger number of employees, people will be better, we will live better and forget about those we are most proud of, and some even run when campaigns are being done and try to, thanks to them, come up with some political point and get some votes more. Like the heroes of the last Olympic games, as far as Serbia's young swimmer Milorad Cavic, who left Belgrade to Italy to prepare for the upcoming competitions, because everything he was promised was not fulfilled. She promised him this government and those he took pictures with and who went to Beijing to support him. The man says that the pool in Tashmajdan recently dropped the roof, but there are ski resorts, that his training terms match his citizenship shifts in the pool, and that the water was not heated, and as an apartment he was promised to be given for use, not owned, he never got. It is a relationship, as is the relationship with Milorad Cavic, that is the attitude towards all citizens of Serbia -- you promise, you get votes, and then ski resorts, circulatory chips and tourist-destination management, and there are no peoples, pensioners in the budget anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6189	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 3 and 8, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from the People's MP Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I would like to refer to the amendment I have submitted to Article 5, which concerns the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The amendment envisions an increase in the amount provided for specialised services from 6,850,000 to 20,000,000 dinars. It is argued that it is necessary to engage the most prominent domestic and foreign legal experts in order to represent the interests of the Republic of Serbia before the International Court of Justice, and related to the implications of Kosovo and Metohija's status. I'm afraid the government's representative, who formulated the explanation of why the amendment should be rejected, failed to fully understand the intensity of the amendment itself. The argument given by the government says: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the bill provides funding of 344,000 dinars in the division of the foreign ministry to form an international legal team in the process of giving an advisory opinion to the International Court of Justice on the legality of Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence. The amendment proposes the provision of 13.150,000 funds for the same purposes. "I don't know why the government assumed that this amendment refers to the process of giving an advisory opinion to the International Court of Justice on the legality of Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence. I think the withdrawal of the sum of 34,000 dinars for an advisory opinion on one issue which is legally crystal clear, in fact, one questionable act. The question arises whether seeking an advisory opinion on the matter means that the government leaves a speck of doubt that Kosovo's declaration of independence is illegal and that it is a violation of the UN Charter, the Helsinki Final Act, the findings of the Badinter Commission, etc. On the other hand, the very formulation of the issue, whether Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence by Kosovo's provisional institutions is in accordance with international law, clearly refers exclusively to the provisional administration in the province, but not to the countries that have recognised the act. I don't think it's the key to whether the temporary authorities of the administration did it, because they've brought similar declarations before, but in who has supported and acknowledged such an act. In this respect, the temporary authorities of the administration are given too much importance, and those responsible for giving international legitimacy to such an act are not mentioned. I think the authorities have also recently noted that such a decision by the International Court of Justice is to transfer the issue of Kosovo's status from political to legal field, and that this issue should not be further complicated while in court proceedings, i.e. in the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice. The authorities said the measures they took against Montenegro and Macedonia are justified because they recognised Kosovo after the UN General Assembly's decision, and I think that at the same time returning ambassadors to countries that previously recognised Kosovo is a lack of consistency, because what kind of message you send if our diplomats return to certain countries, even Albania, while you banish the ambassadors of those two states. Instead of heating up the euphoric atmosphere, then various inappropriate statements made by certain representatives of the ruling coalition, the right measure would just be to launch lawsuits against countries that have recognised Kosovo. Even the government could explain too much that in the case of Montenegro and Macedonia it does so because of Kosovo's recognition while it concerns the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice. This would also have been a deterrent effect in relation to those who continue to think about recognition, and would be followed by an announcement by the foreign minister on the possibility of implementing further measures against Montenegro and Macedonia. Otherwise, only at the level of empty words and other statements by Minister Jeremic about "the firmness and determination to defend our territorial integrity and sovereignty and after voting in the UN General Assembly our reaction to any threat to integrity will be determined". The amendment we're talking about is exactly on the trail of these words and, in the sense of which, it's just mentioned. Also these days, war crimes prosecutor Mr. Vladimir Vukcevic said Albanian Prime Minister Sali Berisha, for the intervention of Ramush Haradinaj, had ordered the removal of evidence of trade between Kosovo Serb authorities and other non-Albanians, as well as that the team would address the relevant international organisation. Also, he said it is likely that the Albanian prosecutor's office also refused to conduct an investigation into the allegations in the book of Carla del Ponte on organ trafficking. I think that if this information is launched as credible, it will be necessary to hire the best legal experts to deal with this issue before international courts. At the moment of the Council of Europe's procedure, the issue of trade with Serb authorities from Kosovo, which is the success of our parliament's delegation, Serbia must be prepared to react decisively to a state that obstructs the investigation, especially if it is a country that is presumed to have been taken by our kidnapped citizens, in order to die in the most beastly way possible. Two weeks ago, Helena Ranta, a Finnish dentist, a member of the international commission investigating events in the village of Račak, announced in her biography that she had been pressured by the head of the then OSCE mission, as well as by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of her home state, to change her findings in the report. The event served as a formal cause for Serbia's bombing, although Rantine's claims were that there was no massacre against civilians, but that such a finding was made under various political pressures. Serbia must react to this and in one legal way seek protection of its interests. It is also important to mention this occasion that there have been several statements and domestic and foreign officials these days that there is a real possibility for Belgrade to accept the Eulex mission through agreement on six points in the letter from UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon. There are discussions on very sensitive issues such as police, judiciary, customs, etc. I think the representatives of the Serbian government have said that the Eulex mission is acceptable under three conditions: the first condition is that the UN Security Council approves it, the second condition is that the mission is status neutral and that it does not implement Ahtisaari's plan. The question is, how can the mission that stems from Ahtisaari's plan not actually implement that same plan? Also, on the other hand, the question arises as to what is the need for the UNMIK mission to be reconfigured with EULEX, and the question arises as to what is the requirement for the Eulex mission to be statusally neutral. As Serbia, we must probably demand that any mission in our country's territory be carried out by the Constitution of Serbia, it must be on track for Resolution 1244 in order to implement Kosovo's essential autonomy within Serbia. On the contrary, it means the implementation of the Ahtisaari plan, which implies the independence of our southern province. As shown in practice, the UN General Assembly resolution is obviously not sufficient, but it is necessary to develop an entire range of international legal measures to protect not only the state integrity, but also the value system on which the modern world is set up after winning the greatest evil of the world's newer history, or fascism. Because of all the above, I believe that the government has shown that it has not fully understood the meaning of this amendment, so I urge the ruling majority to accept this intervention, so that Serbia as a state could adequately represent its own interests before the International Court of Justice in terms of certain lawsuits. If that is not the case, it would be a testimony that there is no will to lead a responsible national policy, which is reflected in the fact that even for the five months that this assembly is going on, there is no proposal for a resolution on Kosovo, and the proposal of 108 MPs to the opposition has not even been taken into consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6191	Mr. Jojic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6192	Krasic always has new ideas and effective ones, so I'll give you some time, Mr. Krasic. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that this amendment is acceptable. Why is it acceptable? Because about 20 million dinars would be saved, which would naturally go into the pension fund and thus have the means to increase pensions and disability. And when it comes to Serbia's defence, I have one proposal. In order for Serbia to save money and Serbia to successfully defend itself, both from Croatia and from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and with the success of Serbia's defence towards protecting the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, I suggest that ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, you propose to the government to hire Dr Vojislav Seselj to defend Serbia from any international court, because he will certainly be more successful in defending Serbia and its interests than to invest billions of diletes, who are looking only to earn without Serbia's defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6193	Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6194	Mr. Jojic has given one aspect and this is the most effective aspect of how to protect our interests. The amendment is extremely good and the public needs to know about the existence of this amendment. Why? Because there is no legal obligation here, there is no legal obligation that says the Foreign Ministry should create an expert team of Tibor and the rest, so they can play representation before the International Court of Justice. It's literally a matter of a political assessment. There is no legal obligation, but there is some assumption, and that is, if you have initiated this procedure, we have not initiated it, we have only initiated it, it can only be initiated by one of the institutions, or by the authorities of the UN, in this case it is the General Assembly, in this process it is necessary to participate. What kind of procedure is this? I have to tell you, if we as a state really want to succeed in this process, then there's no talking to Eulex. If you talk through Bogdanovic, Ivanovic, Radjujka, since he is in charge, he is a proformist in Telekom, for Kosovo and Metohija, via Miket Rakic, via Vukadinovic, through these military intelligence services, through Sutanovac, who is also involved, you are talking with NATO Pact, Eulex, OSCE etc., then you have initiated the procedure for free at the UN General Assembly. Why? You have formally acted on one resolution, to initiate proceedings before the International Court of Justice for advisory opinions, but according to actions, everyday life and day-to-day actions, you are going towards something that is the opposite. You're on your way to full implementation. You're on your way to full co-operation. What's being implemented? Ahtisaari's plan, Eulex, that's all there is to it. I must draw attention to the fact that for five years now, the staff of the government in Pristina, KIM, are being trained in Slovenia and Croatia, not to talk about what is going on in Brussels. They're already ready. The furniture's already been stored. Then the question arises why create an expert team for presenting to the International Court of Justice about an advisory opinion, when you don't know and if it would be a positive advisory opinion on how to use it, because you are the current policy of undoing everything you may have received at some point of applause. Why are we paying for this? Just to remind you, some legal team represented the SRJ in a dispute before the International Court of Justice on the Bosnia and Herzegovina lawsuit or to be more specific to the MH Federation. The legal team has not disputed the existence of genocide in Srebrenica at any time. On the contrary, there was a campaign in the country that should be recognised, etc. And a few days ago, the public in Serbia had the opportunity to listen to Vojislav Seselj cross-examination Eva Tabo, the creator of the idea of genocide, because she gave this statistical-demographic aspect and one skill, and she thus put her finger on her forehead and reached some seven-eight thousand figures, and the Hague tribunal in the current cases came to 1,050, and later to 2,050. Publicity in Serbia is silent and will not talk about Professor Kovacevic and a team of experts from the Republic Statistics Institute, who made a remarkable report of the experts, defended him before The Hague tribunal and annuled everything Eva Tabu wrote. You're not even gonna make a show with those people who did this job right. There is no room for Mr Ivanisevic on your shows, no, you accept everything just to get in, and where to go in, say so. You're going to go out the window, you're going in the door, but you're going to run to the window, remember. That's the problem. You're detaching something here, and I have to tell you that Georgia, on the first day, allegedly some aggression, immediately sued Russia with the International Court of Justice. We don't sue. This state sued selectively some state for aggression, so she dropped the lawsuit. Let me remind you, on that BiH lawsuit, or the MH Federation against Serbia, when the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice has not been established. And do you know why it was not established - because from May '92 to November 5, 2000, Serbia was in undefined status, i.e. SRJ, from the UN membership point of view, so there was a problem whether it was applied there, I think, Articles 34, 35 and 36. The Statute of the International Court of Justice, i.e. whether the SRJ enjoys protection against the International Court of Justice. It's a purely formal reason. But the decision found: it is quite clear that the SRJ became a member of the UN the moment Vojislav Kostunica applied for the SRJ to be accepted as a new member of the UN. And we've been under membership suspension since May '92. Don't let Varadi, this Radoslav Stojanović and these defend us. It's a living shame for us. Why didn't you sue countries that recognised Kosovo and Metohija independently? Why didn't you sue all those UN states for not allowing resolutions 1244 and the Kumanski Agreement to be implemented? Let me remind you, it's up to 1,000 soldiers and police officers on the border of Serbia on KIM territory. Both the Kumanski Agreement and Resolution 1244, when they talk about essential autonomy and local self-government and when they talk about the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, at the time the SRJ, and now Serbia on KIM territory, there are points from first to ninth. First, first, second, at the end of the ninth. We had Covic here who says "let's go to the elections". We had "Cvetka", Boris Tadic says -- the resolution, the Assembly, should not go to the elections, and he says "go to the elections" and 0.06% came out. What is this state policy towards KIM? It doesn't exist. There's only a lie, a fraud, a distraction of citizens, and you're all doing everything you can to acknowledge an independent kiM because someone allegedly conditioned you if that happens, and only when KiM can get independence. They want to force their consent, the consent of the Republic of Serbia. That's why you exist. Next condition - some other territory. Does Boris Tadic have to work? It's got to work. How do we stop this? Take them out of power, there's nothing else, because they're being blackmailed. You're laughing. If Boris Tadic went the other way, he would have gone as Zoran Djindjic because he entered a combination with the devil. Anyone who negotiates with the Americans, negotiates, goes bad. The first one was killed by Slobodan Milosevic. He trusted the Americans, we all know that. We need a government that will take care of Serbia, Serbian citizens and our interests, and a government that will not crawl in front of anyone from abroad. This government has all the prices and respect, no matter what the pressures. What else could they press us for? They took everything from us, only a soul they didn't take from us. Just because you're a little satisfied doesn't mean the whole of Serbia is satisfied. This is good. This amount should be downloaded, and you mathematically find out where you're going to reduce, how you're going to reduce and how you're going to redecorate budget rebalance. Why the state to pay Radoslav Stojanovic, Tibor Varadi and who knows who else to make us some fog here, as something we did. What did we do? Why wasn't the lawsuit filed? As you succeeded, so did you withdraw criminal charges, dropped the prosecution. Against whom? Against the 15 men who bombed this country, who are responsible. How are some going to go to the grave of Milice Rakic, and they swore they were going to be with the Rakic family, and the Americans and the English are receiving them at their congress? Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6195	National MP Ms. Milica Vojic-Markovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6196	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an excellent amendment made by counterpart Nikola Lazic on behalf of the DSS and any government aimed at protecting Serbia's interests would have to accept such an amendment. But I'm sure he's already been rejected, because I've seen the report on the rejected amendments. I am not particularly surprised, given that it is clear to me that this government is leading a truly undisclosed foreign policy, that it does not go forward primarily towards the citizens of Serbia, Serbia, and at the same time towards the international community. What we get as information is semi-information or completely false information. I call on Mr Boris Tadic's statement that he only negotiates with UNMIK chief Lambert Zaneri and that it is acceptable for Serbia and Kosovo to come to Kosovo under the following conditions: to approve him by the Security Council, that he is statusally neutral and that he does not implement Ahtisaari's plan. The president finally says, "These are the principles on which every mission in Kosovo is acceptable." But what the international community and EU leaders say is that they are negotiating with the president of Serbia. And then let's work a little bit on these principles. Let us go from behind, that Eulex does not implement the plan of Ahtisaari; he is the child of Ahtisaari; he is made to implement the plan of Ahtisaari. Then, it's status neutral. How can any mission, which comes uninvited to other people's territory, which is tasked with carrying out a series and set of laws that should give political and state capacity to Kosovo, be neutral? It is fully suited and turned to Kosovo as an independent state and against Serbia, on the other hand. In the end, it's approved by the Security Council. Please, if you say every time that for Serbia, it's no problem for Eulex to come here if approved by the Security Council, do you think anyone would say "there's no need for us to defend Serbia from it"? If it's okay for Serbia to come to Eulex, then it's okay for the Security Council. Furthermore, neither, the president says, is not recognising independence, but raising the state's capacity to fight for the integrity of the Kosovo government. I have to ask for whose integrity, for which states of integrity? Please, it is the integrity of Kosovo as an independent state. Serbia's integrity does not exist there. What's very important is I want to say one more thing that can show the relationship of all of us here today. Before I started speaking, I noticed that there were 15 MPs on this side where the MPs were sitting, and on the other hand, the MPs sitting in the ranks of the opposition had 55 MPs. I see there's a whole group of DSS here. So much for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6197	Mr. Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Mrs. Ragus, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6198	I'm reporting from Article 226 and I'm asking for an explanation. Article 1 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Law states that expenditure on budgets and the acquisition of financial assets is a few billion dinars. The total expenditure of the budget is not 695 but 742 billion dinars. What is the total budget of the Republic of Serbia? It's important because of all those parameters. It is also not an irrelevant issue, last year we had several interesting situations related to the financing of political parties, because at one point the percentage was determined on the total expenditure of the budget, and it was subsequently found that it should still be on budget expenditure. This difference arises because, according to the Law on the financing of political parties, 0.15% of that total amount is 0.15%. On the other hand, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia predicts that certain budget funds must go towards the financing of the AP Vojvodina. This percentage is calculated by one or by another digit. What does the Budget System Act say about that?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6199	Mrs. Ragush by amendment, then Mr. Batic by amendment. I'm just saying, Mrs. Ragush wants to go by the Rules of Procedure and by the amendment, so these two times will connect and will speak for a total of six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6200	Thank you so much for this. You will see for yourself that the topic is significant. Of course I'm joining the opposition colleagues and I have to tell you that we are all terribly deceived by the Foreign Ministry and the Serbian Government. I'm gonna prove it right now. The public in Serbia should remember St. Luke, Mr. Milivojevic, Orthodox Christians celebrate St. Luke. Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija celebrate under very difficult circumstances. On this occasion, the SRS wants each of the next St. The port is on its own hearth. Here's how we're deceived. I remind you of Mr. Rupel's statements that the only problem in May 2008 regarding Eulex in KIM territory is a legal solution to that problem. Everyone then said there would be absolutely no opportunity for UNMIK's powers to be transferred to EULEX. I'm going to quote the foreign minister, he says -- we're maximumly engaged in this matter and we're working with members of the Security Council, as well as with all relevant factors within the UN, so that something like that doesn't happen, because the transfer of UN jurisdiction to any other international presence involves an adequate decision of the UN Security Council, which will not happen. This is a lie. What they agreed behind the stage of the National Assembly, out of the public eye, without any platform, the highest home in one policy system is that they don't need a political decision from the Security Council, because it's a technical mission. Mr. Ivo de Kermabon made a statement to the Albanian BBC that he actually doesn't need the Security Council, that the Eulex mission will be operational in December. What really was more than drastic for all those who are really wondering what kind of state we live in and what degree of democracy is actually in force here. We are trying to prove on a daily basis that there is a complete occupation here, that this Parliament is obviously looking for an explanation, looking for an explanation, asking certain questions, raising problems without any political dialogue, without any explanation. Here, the American and British ambassadors are making us a political scene, a political life, an economic situation, and there is absolutely no result of the entire functioning of the opposition. Finally, the highlight of everything is yesterday's statement by Kristina Galjak, she is a press representative for EU High Representative Javier Solana who has fully revealed what will happen in the Security Council on November 7th, ladies and gentlemen. She said it is true that the UN Security Council, in the form of a presidential statement, is expected to approve the UN-Serbian agreement, Serbia-EU, with the view that the Security Council should first receive a UNMIK report on the outcome of the six-point proposal that Ban Ki Moon sent to the Serbian representative in July and, in fact, confirmed that it will continue to reconfigure the civilian mission in the KIM territory of the entire territory through a kind of statement president. On November 7th, it will put an end to a very embarrassing part of Serbia's recent political history, a very tragic moment for an entire Serbian animal that has been spread across Serbia and around the world. It will also decide in the light of democracy after 2000 in Serbia. It will answer why every more serious story on the subject of KiM's fate, on the Statute of Vojvodina, moved out of parliament and led behind closed doors and will finally give us the answer that we are all under the occupation of Boris Tadic and the United States, ladies and gentlemen. According to the Rules of Procedure, since I have remained in debt in these tens of seconds, my request is, in fact, an explanation by the foreign minister, based on which resolution, on which platform he has actually given himself to completely change his attitude and accept the mission of Eulex to KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6201	The word is Mr. Vladan Batic by amendment, and then Mr. Milentijevic by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6202	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as DHSS MP, I support this amendment from the DSS, in both parts, and with regard to the amount of travel expenses in section three, the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Generally, I think we should cut travel costs. With my amendment, but I wasn't in Belgrade, I also suggested a reduction in travel costs, and that is the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for the area of European integration, where travel costs are 20 million planned, I think it should be 10 times less. Especially since the effects of these trips, at least so far, have been very small. From the promise that Serbia will be on the white Schengen list by the end of the year, over the promise that Serbia will be an EU candidate by the end of the year, nothing has been achieved. We see that this plan has been achieved by the most critical state lately, Montenegro, and perhaps the cabinet of its Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration and needs this kind of funding. We certainly don't need them. If I'm already talking about the secretary general's cabinet, and to remain faithful to tradition, it would be good, since usually ministers don't want to deal with this matter, that the Secretary-General of the Government of Serbia within the framework of the section - believe it or not, answers the following question: is it possible for JP's director at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport to conclude a contract with one of the professors of the Faculty of Engineering, a contract by which Mr. Professor, we won't mention the name, here I have a contract, may be seen, obliged to have a business manager, so, the director of Belgrade, Mr. Bojan Krisht, assists in managing the company? The price of helping you, it would be funny if it weren't sad, from November 6th to December 21st, is 378,000 dinars. This is the contract (shows the contract), so I guess management of the company is something that is the job of Director General of the Airport "Belgrade". There is no need for this professor, at least, to write here, by the profession of the university professor, called Velimir Radosavljevic. If he can do that and if there's any conflict of interest, I won't engage. I don't object to anything, man wants to make money, but really spending people's money like this, that's embarrassing. But I guess the job isn't done, the one in helping, running the company, so a new contract was made. Madam Minister, feel free to smile, it's funny, but it's also tragic, so tragic. So, Bojan Kristo's closing a new contract, this is Christmas and New Year's Eve. During the 22nd time. 12 to 9. 01, that's those New Year's Eves, one and the other, Christmas one and the other, when no one in Serbia works, that price is more modest. For these ten days, 160,000 dinars to the respected professorship of the Faculty of Machines, of course with all the stamps, a fully regulated contract, seduced at Belgrade Airport, it's all fine. It's all right that we don't live in a country where people go to folk kitchens, that we don't live in a country where hundreds of thousands of people are on the verge of existence, we see that the director of the airport is a little bit of his 300 or how many thousands of salaries he already has, so he's given so much to someone who needs to help him perform this function. Ask the government's secretary if the closest associates of the Airport's director are still workers of the lottery of Serbia, and they are working on the airport on the job contract, on the way. To move on to this second part of the amendment from the Democratic Party of Serbia. I really think it is necessary to increase the amount of funds related to the involvement of the most respected experts to represent us before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. I've been dealing with this problem for years, 27-28 years ago I doctored on this subject (International Public Law) and I think it really takes the most competent legal experts to, on behalf of the state, do this job. I also suggested in my amendment that instead of those enormous travel costs, I apostropheeded the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for the field of European Integration and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and apostrophe of the famous phantom services under the contract, I asked you to answer me, Mrs Dragutinovic, because there is always something behind it. Here's to ask, and you can check, do these contracts include, let's say, when the current Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy is running a web of journalists in Japan to see the natural beauty of Japan about the cost of the Ministry of Economy, and then to be guests of Japan Tobacco, and then Dinkic opens a factory of Japan Tobacco, which bought the tobacco factory in Senta. Just to make sure those services are on contract or otherwise. But whatever services are under contract, which are travel expenses, I suggested something else. This is indeed something I consider essential, as well as costs for our representation before The Hague tribunal. Diplomacy is very important to us today, diplomacy has achieved results. If a ministry can boast, along with the president of the state on the diplomatic agenda, it's the Foreign Ministry. With my amendment, I'm sorry I couldn't explain it, I suggested that this money for these travel expenses, when we already have the government's Air Service, I don't know what that money or Kristo's spending that money on, according to those accounts that we saw, that these funds go to the equipment of diplomatic and consular offices and the opening of new diplomatic or consular offices. We live by some matrixes of the past. You have diplomatic representations where there's no need for such a thing. I've been in a few places recently. You have, say, a great embassy and a residence in Rome, but a disaster of what it looks like inside, a disaster. I was in Tunisia too. It's a nice residence, but it's empty in there, there's nothing. I was in Carthage. I was just with Milorad Jovanovic, an old friend of mine, an ambassador to Tunisia and once a party friend, when we were in the same party, but it's not a topic. Let's let these representations of diplomatic and consular really present us in the right way, and not be ashamed to invite guests representatives of other embassies or consulates. I mentioned this, why not, so Mrs. Sanda Raskovic-Ivić falls apart, doesn't know where she's going before, I mentioned it on behalf of 3,000, and I appeal to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on behalf of 3,000 of our people living in Malta to open a consular office in Malta. It's the insatiable need of these people of ours. You can't travel for every little thing in Rome. She can't be on a plane every day between Rome and Malta. Let that money on the completely pointless journeys of Dinkic, Djelic, Krkobic, I don't know how long he can travel in fact, I know, but I don't want to be an evildoer, so let's spend on the right things, open a consulate in Malta, renovate our embassies and residences, not be ashamed of strangers and say: this is our diplomacy, this is our consulate, this is our residence, it represents Serbia. I think we'd be better off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6203	The word is Mr. Milentievich, according to the amendment. Four minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6204	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the amendment tabled by fellow Members Nikola Lazic is quite acceptable because he suggested that part of the funds provided for travel be determined to hire the best domestic and foreign legal experts to represent the interests of the Republic of Serbia before all courts of justice. The government of the Republic of Serbia's argument is unacceptable: "Amendman is not accepted for the reason that the bill provides funding of 34m dinars, in the division of the foreign ministry, for the establishment of an international legal team in the process of giving an advisory opinion to the International Court of Justice on the legality of Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence. ''All this would be fine, I wish I wasn't right, but approximately this government and the president of the Republic will at large admit the deployment of the Eulex mission to Kosovo and Metohija. With that in mind, it is quite unnecessary to separate money from the International Court of Justice, because by deploying the Eulex mission to Kosovo and Metohija, there is nothing more than recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Who last night watched the show on TV Pink, where the ambassador of France attended, where Mr. Vuk Draskovic, Mr. Fatic and Mr. Oliver Ivanovic attended, I think he saw the essence of everything that should happen in Kosovo and Metohija. At the question of Oliver Ivanovic, asked the Ambassador of France: well, and under these conditions by the Republic of Serbia to accept the Eulex mission, which laws will be implemented in Kosovo and Metohija? Whoever looked remembers saying - that's a very difficult question, I don't have an answer. I think we should ask for an answer, because if the laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are implemented through the deployed Eulex mission, and all those thousands and two thousand police officers, and the judges and I don't know what, if they implement the laws of the Republic of Kosovo, then Kosovo has finished its story.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6205	Mr. Buha, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6206	Speaking of the Eulex mission, we must also mention the very positive role of the Russian Federation in relation to Kosovo and Metohija, and we must be worried about the position of the Serbian side that has now ruled out the very active role of the Russian Federation throughout the period of the Kosovo crisis. We know that in the last two years we have had full support in the Security Council, in the General Assembly by the Russian Federation and a very negative relationship between the United States, the European Union and ultimately and the recognition of Kosovo and Metohija. Now I'm going to read here a statement from the Russian ambassador that was given a month ago, so that you can see how we, by misusing international law and our own positions around Kosovo and Metohija, are losing an active ally, are simply excluding our reckless, reckless, irresponsible actions by our current authority. Ambassador of the Russian Federation Alexander Konuzin, I say, a month ago he said, "Congratulations on a great diplomatic victory in the United Nations General Assembly. There's still a lot of work to do. Supporters of Serbia's rip-off will not be cut off. Pressure on Belgrade will grow, I want to join the words of the great Russian writer Alexander Solzhenicin - Serbs, do not give up your country. Be sure that Russia will be with Serbia in the future. '"You see, we, by direct negotiations, shut down Russia by secret negotiations on the Brussels-Belgrade route. In the Security Council, a new resolution was tried on seven or eight occasions to accept Ahtisaari's plan. The Russian side has always made it clear - no, it can't, Ahtisaari's plan can't. We now come indirectly to Ahtisaari's plan directly directed by Belgrade and Brussels. Kristina Galjak, we can read in "Evening News" today, openly says that Solana's advisors regularly travel on the trip to Brussels-Belgrade and Eulex has a mission chief, a team of experts, and this issue deals with diplomats, etc. So, secret negotiations. Not a word of this in the Serbian press. This is treason, you must know, directed by the President of the Republic, the Government and the Foreign Minister. Just so you know, we also need to explain this to the people in Kosovo and Metohija, the president of the Republic, the Government, its prime minister and foreign minister participate. They will be responsible for all this to come, followed by a ten-day presidential statement and thus rule out the Security and Support Council of the Russian Federation. That's what you're responsible for.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6207	Thank you. On Article 5, section 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Miladanovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2(2) point 1. One and six. Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6208	The Honorable Presidency, honourable Members of the People, on the basis of Article 145. I am submitting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008 on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Forward, Serbia. Amendment to be deleted in Article 5, Section 3, Chapter 3, point 7, function 110. As a special service to the government of the Office for Media Cooperation, a government regulation was established in 2005. By 2005... (President: Mr Saviæ, please do not disturb the speaker by banging.) )......................................................................................................... The office's tasks were carried out under the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In this way and labour costs from the jurisdiction of that office were lower. The detachment act has significantly increased business costs. This amendment is proposed to reduce the costs of the state administration. Namely... (President: Mr Stojanovic, do not disturb the speaker. )......................................................................................................... I do not believe that the proposed increased costs for the work of the Office amounting to about three million dinars should be approved, as the same jobs can be successfully carried out in the context of the operational costs established so far for 2008. I am explicitly against the planned additional costs, especially given that any difficulties or lack of funds to carry out the tasks of the Office for Media Cooperation can be overcome by including the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the affairs and by using his budget and professional services. Otherwise, the office estimated, considering spending in January-August 2008, it is possible to save costs by reducing the volume of travel. What kind of journeys are we talking about? The government should be doing its job, not marketing and advertising. It is my opinion that business costs can also be saved in the proposed way. I note that during the upcoming period under the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in order to reduce the costs of the state administration, this service should be abolished in an appropriate procedure, as these operations until the establishment of this office were carried out under the General Secretariat of the Government, resulting in much less operating costs. In the end, I thank my colleagues who were banging for encouraging me and supporting me. (All the time the speech of MP Ljiljana Miladanovic, the MPs of the SRS, were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6209	Miss Natasa Jovanovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6210	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when you're a citizen, and you want to play MP, then you write amendments that don't comply with the Constitution. It's nice, Madam Minister, that you wrote that this nameman, these calls individue, is not in accordance with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because the initial initiative for such a thing cannot come from someone who has tried to present a term "amandman," but that someone who wrote it had to have basic knowledge of the Law on the Budgetary System, and of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to write the amendment properly. But people learn, slowly, maybe someday they'll be members of some local community or something, the presidents of the beekeepers' association, the foresters. The lady may be some head of the Heclapping Commission, but in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this job must be done seriously and to know how it works, as it stands with the Constitution, how with one law, with the other and then to talk too much and to explain. If this is about the Office for Media Cooperation, then she could have asked for advice from a certain Alexander Vukic, to help her write this amendment, because he must have been a media expert or so. I will take the opportunity to inform the public that this former member of our SRS and the Minister of Information has become a registrar from today. He revised the views and said, imagine that the line of existence of Western Serbian countries has been backwards for centuries – marked in the 1990s, but marked by each in its own different way, Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj, SRS President, Slobodan Milosevic, President of the Republic, and Vuk Draskovic, then with that ideology, the president of the SP – the western line of Karlobag - Ogulin - Karlovac - Virovitica. People here know this, especially Mr. Buha and Mr. Zutic, who is not currently in the hall, behind the line are even Serb places, such as Serbian Moravica and others. So that's not the western limit. But what do you expect from someone who is Tadic's registrar and who is now someone who has the heritage of Manter's ideology, because that's exactly what Alexander Vukic is doing. Since he was on the way of Manter, then I would absolutely not be surprised that he is also acting in the manner of some Indians, but as the lingo people say, who see that he is acting, and that he was indeed a lie and a delusion of all the years of his life, but he is indeed in the true sense of the words of an Indian and, above all, I warn the citizens of or Ruma, or Vronjačka Banja, or Knjižvec or Prepolje, that this dangerous man may be walking around their city today. Is he at the Bookie's today? The Književci police, if there are any, I appeal to them, the amateur theatre, because it's for the amateur theater, it's for nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6211	Mr. Zeljko Tomic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6212	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to members of 225 and 226. I wanted to add one more thing to my question, and I wanted to complete my colleague Vladimir Milentijevic, who was convincing last night's show on one of the more watched televisions in our country, where he said, a concrete question -- which laws on Kosovo's territory would be applied by Eulex, when French Ambassador Jean Francois Teral answered, it is a very, very difficult question, and left the viewers without an answer. The answer has already been given. It was given by Mrs Karin Lindal, a spokesman for Eulexa: Eulex will exclusively work under the constitution and laws of the Republic of Kosovo, an independent state of Kosovo. In this atmosphere we can continue the story, in that atmosphere we have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there are many answers, and Eulex has already been installed, de facto, just missing and de jure, which promises him the ruling majority here in parliament. A mild crackdown to get from Kosovo to Vojvodina, the same cute TV show, "Dvougao" is called, on another TV, where SPS Vice President Dusan Bajatovic is on a concrete issue -- whether the AP Vojvodina Statute is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, he says -- mainly. He says mostly, and it is known that SPS representatives will support the statute and have repeatedly said that in the media. It's, uh, I'm sorry about the seductive parallel, like when you ask a girl if she's pregnant, and she says she's a little pregnant, she's not a bit. Well, it's either in accordance with the Constitution or not. If said by the vice-president of Serbia's ruling parliamentary party, it is indeed black-humble. I had already had the chance and before I asked the SPS representatives whether they would remain consistent with their earlier statements, their earlier views, as well as the speaker. By their works in the last month or two, they have disproved themselves, and both by this and by other questions. Now we will mostly find out their position, and most likely that statute will be adopted and will mainly violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6213	The word is Mr. Petar Jojic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I request a notice from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will the Government of the Republic of Serbia allow the headquarters of the Southbanat County to be removed from Pancheva to Vrsac? Who thought of that? Will the Government of the Republic of Serbia allow that? It's a district of 330,000 inhabitants, the largest district in Vojvodina. Will the Serbian government allow autonomists to tear up this district and move it where it suits them more, will one owner from Vrsac be able to fit the county headquarters in Vrsac, not Panchev? Traditionally and the headquarters of the administrative district must be in Pancheva, ladies and gentlemen. I request a notice from the Prime Minister -- whether the government will prevent secession in this way by Vojvodina, because a piece by piece of autonomacese, with its northern neighbours, are trying to divide and disperse this territory as the northern Serbian AP. That is why the SRS is against secession under this statute that Bojan Pajtic and Boris Tadic want to be adopted, both in the Republic Parliament and in the Regional Parliament. There is no place, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Pancheva, respected citizens of southern Banat, eight municipalities of Pančevo, Kovin, Kovacica, Alibunar, Opovo, Bela Church and Vršac, for according to new solutions and standards, the administrative district will also have both in the area of Southern Banat, and the headquarters of the county of the administrative sea in Pančevo, and not in Vršec, to meet only one great profiter, so that he can rule the region, not only the Vojvodina in this part of Banat, but that he rules the municipalities that engravite towards Vrsec. Therefore, the citizens of Panchev are upset, it is 130,000 citizens. By the way, let me point out that Panchevo was the area of the city of Belgrade and don't, gentlemen of Novi Sad, that you're running for Panchevo, because the citizens of Pancheva won't let you do it at all costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6215	Your question will be forwarded to the government, or to the Prime Minister. The word has Mr. Milan Lapcevic, after the amendment, and then Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6216	Dear President, Madam Minister, if I were you, I would protest publicly, and also with my ruling structures that there are only 15 MPs here in the O.R. with you from your ruling structure who support you. However, on this screen there are many more cards registered, there are 35, there are no more, it doesn't matter, but in any case it would be logical for those who will support this budget rebalance to be here and to hear all these objections made by the representatives of the opposition and by the reasons of the amendments, because they should be made known. This amendment, proposed by Mrs Miladinovic, comes in favour of the story that public spending is too high and needs to be reduced. There's a real excuse in that. Especially because current inflows in the budget are shrinking, and consumption is constantly increasing through some unnecessary things that are not necessary for the state, in which Serbia is today. According to the National Bank of Serbia, base inflation was 10.2% year-on-year in October. The Memorandum of Economic Policy provides for inflation to be at a maximum of 9.5%. The base inflation at the annual level in October entered the gas collection as a basic addition, but it did not enter, as it would cause chain reaction, municipal collection and heating in many municipalities in Serbia, and there was no increase of phone impulses by 100% and subscriptions by 300%. Even if I may say, I doubt this kind of data, but official data are official data, even this inflation has at the moment exceeded the one provided for in the Memorandum, and only in the next two months will the wave of gatherings announced, alongside Telekom, but also the utility service sought by the mayor of Belgrade himself, and it is likely that the presidents of municipalities throughout Serbia, which depend on energy and, above all, gas, will have to look for it, because in this way it is unsustainable to heat citizens at these prices. So, public spending is growing all the time and it's perfectly justified that it decreases, and it would be logical to expect that even that public spending hasn't been reduced overall, that you've seen those most vulnerable groups, like the disabled, refugees mentioned this morning, like those most endangered categories. It is completely irresponsible and the Government must, or its ministers, save on itself and their expenses first without doing so to those who need it most. Now I'm going to show you a list of over 1,000 public enterprises and institutions in Serbia. According to the register, there are 37 pages of typed material here, there are over 1,000 public enterprises in Serbia. If the government behaves like this, how do you think the officials and managers of these public enterprises and institutions will behave? They will demand that they have a comfortable position, as various ministries require, cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development, cabinets of the Minister for Economic Development, etc. We are full of the mouth of some economic development, and Serbia is constantly in a stagnation and in an ever worse position. From economy and from economic development we have only bankruptcy and only failed businesses, and of course investments in ski resorts, and less and less snow. One mayor asked to build a ski resort, forgetting that he had the highest mountain or a hill of barely 800 to 900 meters and sometimes snow. He needs a ski resort. It's all nice, it's got a zoo, it'll get a giraffe with the help of the government, but it also needs a ski resort. The only thing more snow can't get, it can't be bought. He'll also have to get snow machines, so after the cry to the public, he decided to give it up, so he'll get giraffes, and soon seals. For all of this in Serbia there is space, as if we are the country that has the biggest gross social product in the world, so they can behave easily. A thousand companies, a thousand executives, a thousand assistants, a secretary, a driver and whatnot. Serbia needs structural reforms. Serbia cannot base its development on all investments going mainly from the state sector, from public revenues. Do you remember a few months ago when the elections were held, waiting for the formation of the government, that many investments had stopped and that everything in Serbia had literally stopped. Why? Well, because all investment and everything that's going on in the country depends on state money. It's a lot about state investments, public institutions, public enterprises. It's all about that circle. There's very little money in the private sector. So instead of predicting this kind of consumption, you'd better deal with structural reforms and make your example of less consumption and more investment in an economy that creates excess values and creates a better life for citizens. It's the only way to make a better life for the citizens. Not by marketing here shows that there's going to be pensions, and probably not, that there's going to be a better life, but it's not, it's just an empty story. We will, of course, support such an amendment and any other amendments that deal with it and which talk about the need to reduce inappropriate expenditure on budget users and to reduce public spending. If you accept these amendments, it will be good, if not, of course we will not support budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6217	Zoran Krasic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6218	Of course, you keep us here, don't let us go to glory, and these antichrists fled all to glory. There's no one from the government here, and we have to consider it, even though this is working hours like this, but you want to talk about it, slowly. We're doing what you said. No problem. I have to get involved in this debate because this, as well as a few other amendments, concerns something called the Office of Media Cooperation. These 38 employees will spend nearly 79 million and 653,000 dinars. It's them, to translate it now, because these government people are silent and won't say what it is and who it is, about who serves not only that conference hall in the government, where they come in from time to time and sit down, and they hold some press conferences, and these days they've all filed reports on the 101st day of government functioning, and they've been giving themselves grades from four minus to five minuses. There are also those who make statements and a kind of protocol that organises journalists' visits and make efforts to transfer information on government activities as soon as possible and possibly some ministries. This is a large amount of funding, especially when it comes to the fact that we also have the public service of modern European Serbia. These are the sunflowers, with different European Union flags. I hope I've described it nicely, given that I don't watch television and try to stay in my clear mind, and I don't allow my opinion to create any journalist, or any columnist, especially these sleazebags who write every day. Citizens of Serbia, in order to stay completely normal, you should watch television as little as possible and read the newspaper as possible, and the more you can go to the library and read books, and especially make children read the book, because they can't read anything in the paper. Once, when I was a kid, it was "Political Thursday," and then we had to read, learn spelling, grammar, etc. Since democracy came, journalism has failed. It's gotten pretty dirty, trendy, foggy, and it needs to hide its essence. Those who smile, I know they share my opinion. Now I would like to explain to you that there was an information service in all governments. That's modern now, as the spokesman says. We have the prosecution's spokesman, the court's spokesman, the ministry's spokesman, the prosecutor's spokesman, all the portfolios we have. These are some speakers who need to inform the public about the activities, although some spokesmans also appear as top notchs of certain matter. So it appears, say, Bruno Vekaric. He's not my friend Batic, he's the main culprit for the existence of Vekaric. Although Vojin Dimitrijevic has pretty much ruined it. However, in order for you to understand now who has submitted the amendment to this position of the Amendment Bill and the Supplements to the Budget Law, I am going to ask you to listen to something very serious. It started in 2004. I'm asking for the silence of the DSS to hear, so they don't make a mistake if they don't hear me. I would especially ask the citizens to pay attention to the text I'm going to read. It's not my text, it's someone else's author. It's an oath by the MP of the SRS. He says: "I, Tomislav Nikolic, swear as a People's MP, swear by the almighty God, swear by my Orthodox faith, swear by my name and honor, swear by the glory of my ancestors and the future of my descendants, that I will faithfully, honestly and faithfully perform my parliamentary duty, respecting party discipline and implementing the decisions of the highest party bodies, in accordance with the programme and the statute of the SRS. The unity of the Serbian people and the state, political democracy, civilized legal order, economic prosperity and social justice, will always and everywhere represent the main objectives of my political struggle," Tomislav Nikolic said. "My parliamentary mandate will be held at any moment by the Central Fatherland Administration of the SRS, and I will obey its will unconditionally. As I respected this oath and fulfilled it, so did God help me." Today is Saint Luke, the glory of Vojislav Seselj, and I deliberately waited today to read the oath signed by the MP of the SRS. It continues to confirm that the oath was taken on January 26, 2004, at the temple of St. Nicholas. With its seal and signature, protagonist Djordje Popovic confirms. "Central Fatherland Administration of the SRS, for the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, signed by Tomislav Nikolic." But when it comes to conflict, this is not the left and right side of the budget, this is the spiritual and moral side of every man's character, and this is the materialistic view of life: take everything that life gives you. This is Uncle Tomina's bachelor. We invite all the researchers to supplement, there's only five cars here, they could find out if there's more. This is what I teach Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, as a contribution to this discussion. I ask Mrs. Nada Kolundji to inform Boris Tadic, called Cvetko, what kind of people he cooperates with and what kind of people he keeps acting here. I would ask you to inform Mr Cvetkovic, as Prime Minister, that there are many grounds, in the objections you have heard these days, where you have justified these items by the need for the government to be present through some agencies, because there are other agencies that are fighting in the Republic of Serbia's market, and there is a great struggle on the market for information and presence. I'd like to draw your attention to a few more very negative phenomena on the information market. The first appearance is called Dragan Gilas, former director of the National Office, is very fond of painting, was in the Czech Republic and became a millionaire. One told me, I think it's an Italian stallion, that Gilas is estimated to be worth over 57m euros. You can't sell for one second on any TV without his knowledge. Now it's down to over 60%. The second one's the "Idol," because there's a lot of idols, called Shaper. Rodina wonders how he succeeded in business, given that his IQ was measured with some odds that fall within the area of interest of Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6219	Mr Krasic, please take care when you qualify for mental health and intellectual status of Serbian citizens and any man.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6220	Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanović, you know I know your profession very well. I haven't used a single term wrong. You have to understand that...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6221	I'd really like to ask you, in that kind of qualification...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6222	No ugly word has been used. Even this left-hand side didn't even get the point of the story.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6223	I got it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6224	Just because you realize, that means you're really meeting the conditions that you can sit on this right.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6225	Mr. Krasic, in case someone on the left didn't understand, that's because they're not listening.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6226	I agree. It's democracy. The best form of democracy is when you stand in front of television, take the remote and choose the channel. Don't change me. You're not in charge of changing me. You're bound to change, if that's possible. If you are unable to change, say so. Citizens of Serbia, you can see that they are unchangeable, constantly bad. That's exactly what this budget is talking about. So this is some kind of petty propaganda for this government. It's not much, you know. Far greater resources and far greater numbers of people are working in favour of holding this one or the other in a similar government. Is there going to be studs or ergels...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6227	Mr. Krasic, Miss Jovanovic spent four and a half minutes, so you should bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6228	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6229	MP Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, after this maesteral presentation by Mr Krasic, Madam Chairman, and given that today is Friday, we all know that today is St. Luka, regardless of what Ms. Comić announced that the work would be extended after 18.00 hours, and I think you are absolutely aware of how many MPs there are currently in the O.R., first of all, I think of my left side, because I don't think it's right for the National Assembly to continue working today anymore. We will not be late anywhere, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, has Serbia's time as you lead it towards the EU and we will all retire here until it comes. Also, I'd like to take advantage of the opportunity when I'm out, to congratulate all citizens of Serbia who are celebrating today the glory of St. Luke. I hope you won't mind me congratulating on my own behalf and on behalf of all SRS MPs here in the Assembly, all the members of the SRS and the sympathisers, the President of the SRS, Professor Vojislav Seselj, who I will wish him to welcome the glory next year in the circle of his family, with his children, with his friends and godfathers, with the godfathers who have not betrayed their godfather, with the godfathers who are faithful. You know what godmotherhood is in Serbia. To wish Professor Vojislav Seselj's arrival next year, to return to his children and return to his Serbia, because she needs it most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6231	Mr. Flea, by respecting yours as well as all the suggestions that were on the same subject today, I've estimated that tomorrow we won't be working, that's the second day of glory and are also suffocations, a large number of people will need to go to graves. So, we're not going to work tomorrow, we're going to work on Monday, but today we really have to work longer than usual and than we did in the previous days. You know what emergency means when it comes to budget rebalance, I fully understand your need to make a significant contribution to the matter we're discussing. We won't be working tomorrow. We'll continue work Monday at 10.00. Mr. Shormaz, you've heard from Mr. Jojic before, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6232	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask for notice whether the government, since it is a matter of the Republic of Serbia's budget, is transforming itself so-called and referring to budgets consistent with local self-government, municipalities and cities, will the Government of Serbia from the investment national plan and the city of Kralje finally allocate funds and fix 15 hanging bridges on Ibra that are used by martyrs living in that area, who can't even walk through, whose children are supposed to go to school? Those workers working on the other side of the Ibra coast have come into a situation where their lives are at risk. Ten days ago, I had a chance to watch a TV show showing these bridges and crossing those martyrs of citizens in the Ibar Valley who live. The conclusion was that these bridges were built 50 years ago, and some even 100 years ago. Will the Government of the Republic of Serbia and finally the Mayor of the Kings, I call it on purpose, not to know its name and last name, but the Mayor of the Kings, will they take some measures and allocate funds to build hanging bridges that represent the only bond and the only possibility of citizens in the Ibar Valley so that they can have a safe pass over bridges, as we have on bridges on the Danube and Sava? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6233	You didn't say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured, I assume 225 and 226. Okay. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6234	Article 104 and dignity of the National Assembly. President, we don't mind, and here we are, DSS MPs, we're going to work on the amendments and we're going to work on all the interesting amendments, not just the ones we've submitted ourselves, however long it takes, what we do. I must say, for the dignity of the National Assembly, that here, as far as the ruling majority is concerned, only a certain number of DS deputies and a certain number of SPS MPs are present, I mean the coalition, there is no one. And I'd like to ask you to warn the vice president, who once gave me a warning for throwing it, and I paid the fine of 3,000 dinars, to warn me not to throw it behind my back or at least not to speak loudly. And that is the dignity of the National Assembly. No one from the famous G17 plus the group, no one from the SPO, no one from the LSV. So there's no one from those parties. There are much more MPs in the opposition than there are from the government. I don't know what's so urgent that we have to work tonight, I don't know, until midnight and do it again and Monday. I don't know what the urgency is. Whether the delegation's trip to Portugal on Wednesday, so 25 MPs will be gone and I don't know how many of it's ruling majority. I don't know if it's an emergency, so you need to have a voting day before Wednesday, and it's not an emergency for you to deliver the 2009 draft budget to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia within six hours. We will talk on rebalancing and try to convince you that this wasteful, wasteful, catastrophicly poor budget rebalance for Serbian citizens is being withdrawn. Also, we're waiting for you by midnight, and that's why we'll be there to see if the draft budget comes into the process. He's not coming, he wasn't even in the government, of course he's not going into congregation procedure. Well, let's say. I think that, in the end, it would be correct that no one from the ruling majority until the end of this call for parliament calls anyone out of the opposition for obstruction. What you're doing is worse than obstruction. This is a complete disrespect for the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and this is a violation of an institution such as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by the ruling majority. (President: Time) You've been doing it since the beginning, but in accordance with this amendment, you've been using the media to manipulate and deceive citizens. How easy it is to deceive who works and who doesn't work in the Assembly, it's much easier, but you can't deceive them when it comes to cheating on pensions, about better life, faster entry into the EU... (President: Mr. Shormaz, will you bring the end, speak for four minutes? )......................................................................................................... about the Fiat, the action and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6235	I would like to say, first of all, that using the experience of Vice-President Mrs. Comic, I occasionally have consultations with her and there has been no rejection. The two of us were just exchanging thoughts about what you were talking about. If that bothers you, I apologize, it's not the vice president's fault, I asked. I would also like to say that the debate on certain points in the established agenda of the National Assembly session is led regardless of the number of MPs present, this is the fourth position of Article 86. Ms. Marina Ragush, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please, those who have no objections probably take a real break, come out, come in, it's hard to sit here all day.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6236	I am really glad that you are interpreting the passion of the ruling majority to the members of the Rules of Procedure. Here's to respect the procedure, so on the basis of Article 104, it's truly brutally injured the dignity of the National Assembly by the arrogant MPs of the ruling majority on budget rebalancing simply not present in the hall. We are trying, indeed, to honor every agreement, to honor the pace, to try to contribute to a better life of citizens, but the public in Serbia in St. Luke should know, when we have to make an effort, to decide, to see what kind of life that will be in 2009, to get the necessary explanations and explanations, MPs of the ruling majority, here the left-hand side looks like this, absolutely have no understanding of what is called a man's life worth living in Serbia. They have no understanding of what slowly, but surely the international public, ladies and gentlemen, is leading the controversy about how a proud and European country of Serbia died in 1999, based on a forged report by Helen Rant, and by the pressure of Mr Walker. The international public is giving a lesson to the foreign ministry and the Serbian government to fight for the dignity of a nation and a state. We take our head and look the other way. The international public is talking about it, it says "Liberasia" that the French counterintelligence service smuggled weapons into Croatia while it was in effect banning arms imports. The international public will eventually say that Serbia is not to blame for what happened to her and what she is now suffering for. We here at St. Luke, while in front of our eyes take away Kosovo and Metohija, so bestial, unscrupulous, slowly but surely here is Vojvodina, we sit as one from the opposition, trying to preserve what little is left of Serbia. Look at the ruling majority. This is a shame for Serbia, a shame for this people, whom we will not be able to do on New Year's Eve and on Serbian Christmas, Orthodox Christmas, as well as Roman Catholic, to explain to our children that they will not give and prepare the Christmas table. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6237	Is anyone else picking up? Donka Banovic, by amendment. Here you are now. Your parliamentary group has seven and a half minutes left, Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6238	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, I want to support the amendment of my colleague Ljiljana Miladanovic because I believe that this amendment is very good and that it would be useful for the government to accept it, because it envisions reducing the spending and costs of the state administration. It's barely been 100 days since the formation of the so-called. pro-European reform governments, and anxiety and impatience are two key feelings of business circles and businesses in Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia is busy with objections about the poor business climate in Serbia, the dissatisfaction of entrepreneurs and investors, warnings from international institutions and advice on how to improve the country's international reputation. The diagnosis is more than disturbing. Reforms stand, and therapy is already common. The sooner you continue the reforms, the less the cost. For budget makers and macro-economic policy makers for next year, especially should be a striking part of as little cost as possible. So a hundred days of the new ruling coalition was enough to show that Vlad Cvetkovic-Dacic was strong only in words. According to the Friddom House report, Serbia has ruined its score among countries in transition due to the deterioration of three indicators -- due to a deterioration in the state administration, deterioration in the area of media freedom and the deterioration of regulatory infrastructure independence. The second warning came from experts from the World Bank and the International Financial Corporation. The 2008 Doing Business report said that Serbia is stagnating in reforms and that it has therefore fallen from 91st to the 94th ranking of states in which it is easy and pleasant to do business. The government knows all this, but so far it has not done much to convince investors that it is on a reform and European path, that it is ready to change the business climate and the image of Serbia quickly and resolutely. The biggest sin of the new government in the first hundred days is that its mouth is full of reforms, which are in practice slow, soft and brittle. After vacations, the government mainly dealt with budget rebalancing, i.e. changes and additions, which is what we are discussing tonight, due to an increase in gross pensions and thus falls into a dangerous trap of arbitration and redistribution of money collected from taxpayers, and all for creating voters' moods. The Council of Foreign Investors told the government that the process should be speeded up and implemented at as little cost as possible by Serbia's Europeanisation. It is a well-known rule that voters, or citizens, will not live better if the government gives them higher salaries and pensions, and then takes it through inflation. At least Serbia has experience in the fact that the crisis cannot be resolved by courting politicians to citizens, by continuing promises of raises in pensions and salaries. Many times we have convinced ourselves that the crisis is generated by demagogy and the delay of reforms, so I ask all ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia not to endanger the process of Eurointegration of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6239	Thank you. Mr. Popovic, you have three minutes to complete. Would you like some? Is Mr Popovic here? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 5, section 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Prokic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs Judita Popovic answered her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6240	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first and foremost like to read to you, from the explanation of this draft budget rebalancing law, Chapter 3 of point 7, which is the Office for Media Cooperation. He says, the Office for Media Cooperation informs the public about the work of the government, ministries, special organisations and government services, takes care of internal information, issue public and internal publications and conducts other affairs in the field of co-operation with the media entrusted to it by the government. The largest participation in the structure of defined budgets shall be provided by contract, and shall relate to public information services such as Beta, Tanjug, Fonet, etc. So that's what we used as a reason to submit this amendment, I mean, first of all, to the LDP. The amendment requires that these services, as defined by the contract, be reduced from 26.395,000 dinars to 10,000 dinars. The reasons are multiple. We believe that, first of all, these services are quite undefined and very often appear in this draft budget rebalancing law. We believe that in these services under contract you can put anything in place, to cover up real intentions, the real reasons for funding that you do. We believe that before 2005, there was some relationship and co-operation between the government and the media, and yet there was no such office as is now and we believe that this amount of 26.000,000 dinars is too much for this type of co-operation. First of all, we point out that under this contract service in this amount that is marked, there are also quite serious doubts about the advertising of certain political structures in power, political parties, as well as the works of the government, so that parts of the government that train power can easily access the media, easier their ideas, their intentions to serve citizenship through the media and thus use budget funds for their political promotions. Therefore, it is really unnecessary for such a large amount to be allocated to these services under contract, not only in this press co-operation office, but in all other offices and ministries in which these services are marked. When we talk about the media, we should mean the public service. Public service, I suppose, is not paying for the services provided, so if the Public Service has to report on the work of the Government, and it is also the job of the Public Service journalist to report on everything that is happening in the Government, to inform the public and the citizens of what the Government is doing, then that means that the government is needlessly using budget funds for other media. Because it's a journalist's job to record the news, and the news is usually when the government does something, and mostly this government does something wrong, so it's very often serving the news, so very often the government can co-operate with the media, so it can co-operate for free, and it's completely unnecessary to allocate funds, and it's such a big asset. So we understand the impact of the media on society. We understand that it is necessary for the media to get involved in the creation of public opinion, but we believe that this amount provided for by this budget rebalancing is too marked, and that it is quite enough to also be halved, and that citizens are also informed through these media that are marked here in the light of the budget rebalancing law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6241	Thank you. Mr Popovic responded after the amendment, and then Mr Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6242	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I would like to refer to the amendment's story and give my view of the part of the increase in the separation for the Ministry of Science and Technological Development. Our proposal was to increase the amount allocated to the Ministry of Science and Technological Development from 7.525,000 million dinars to 10,166.000,000 dinars. It is related to the fact that the Lisbon Declaration, brought by the European Union in connection with the development of society, knowledge and a unique European research space, has created an obligation for all member states to increase their education to at least 3% of gross domestic product levels by 2010. Unfortunately, in Serbia today, we stand out for science only 0.5% of gross social product, and if we continue to face the threat of becoming Europe's scientific and educational province. By doing so, we will permanently lose the opportunity to integrate and indeed achieve high scientific and technological development in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The state is constantly abandoned by young experts and works in private companies abroad. Why should they stay at universities and institutions in Serbia when conditions and wages are much worse than anywhere in any country today in Europe. Greater separations for science are necessary as one of the main conditions for retaining our experts in Serbia. We also need a clear strategy to develop science in Serbia, with clear goals and projects it supports. Now I'd like to link this to a reduction in our amendment meant for a joint venture with Fiat. Why do I mention Fiat? A contract with Fiat says that Fiat will hire, but I repeat, not immediately but by 2012, 2,433 workers, but not a single word, it is not tens of thousands of workers but 2,433, but in no word is it going to be engineers, will it be a development centre still in Kragujevac, or can we close down the Faculty of Engineering in Kragujevac and probably one part of the Faculty of Engineering in Belgrade that deals with motor vehicles? We need to know the structure of the employees of the future organization. If all scientific and research work is going to come from Italy and if we're going to hire only trackmen, then it's really a question of whether we're going to get anything from that investment. It is illustrative to say that the government rebalancing established subsidies for Fiat from, now only redistribution, 1.97 billion dinars, but I also have to say that Fiat has received 36 times more money only now than all other domestic and foreign companies as investors in Serbia. Let me say, once again, Fiat needs to hire 2,433 employees. Also, to give one piece of information -- the largest association of foreign investors in Serbia, an extraordinary organisation called the Foreign Investors' Council is gathering today in Serbia 120 foreign investors. Among them are really renovated world producers in various areas of activities that have come to Serbia, investing their money in greenfield investments or privatisation. The organisation, the Foreign Investors' Council, today brings together 120 investors in Serbia and employs 60,000 people, and so far has invested $14 billion in Serbia. An extraordinary organization, 14 billion dollars, 60,000 employees, and we're talking about incentives to the Fiat of over 250-300 million dollars, in the rebalancing sector is now 1.97 billion dinars, for employment until 2012 of 2,433 workers. I think it's illusory to continue to talk about it, and I don't have to add that many companies, both foreign and domestic, are developing their scientific and research footage here. Once again, without the development of science in Serbia, we will be a scientific and intellectual province in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6243	The word is Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6244	President, a respected minister, co-workers and colleagues, we really don't think the government should become the editor-in-chief of the media in Serbia. We really think that free and professional journalism should develop in Serbia. The money provided for the Office for Media Cooperation does not contribute to these efforts. Why? Because this money is used for, I'm going to use an expression that may not be adequate, but I can't find a better one at this point, bribing television. TVs, I'm talking about local televisions across Serbia, are in a very bad human, professional and material state. That's not controversial. They'd broadcast a fireplace, and a fire that burns in the fireplace, if it's free. This money is used to make reports about government activities, to be sent to local television, and they, because of the situation in which they are, and which I have described, are being released in the news. So far, we have had editors, precisely because of this level of professionalism of journalistic profession in Serbia, editors of the main agencies "Tanjuga", "Bete" and "Foneta", become chief editors of the media, because what they miss through agencies, media, I'm not talking about serious media, televisions with national frequencies, but they do, too, bring down editorial work to determine the content of these agency news. But still, the agency is an agency. He's got some editor, he's struggling to maintain a professional level, he's struggling to survive on the market, so there are three, it's kind of competition, one gets money from the budget, so it's not real competition, but now it's not a topic. The theme is this money used to manage the media. Take, for example, a daily newspaper with a reputation, but no circulation. It is considered liberal, pro-European, etc. When you review that newspaper, you will not find any commercial ads, you will find only tenders, public procurement of the city and the Republic of Serbia. That's all the money that goes into that paper. The one who controls money, controls and edit politics. That's clear from the editorial policy of that newspaper. I threw the accent here most when it comes to the Office for Media Co-operation on TV, because there is an agency that produces some short news, which is paid by the government, it sends these short news to television, they play it as news and essentially Prime Minister Cvetkovic, or who he tasked, edits a good part of the news on local televisions in Serbia. It's simply not fair, it's not a contribution to the development of professionalism and it's one of the reasons why the privatisation of local media is delayed, which is mandatory under the law. When it's private, there may probably not be news on those TVs, but just some other commercial program, but in any case, it's gonna be harder to manipulate electronic media that in the local environments, you all know what it's like to fight those small budgets of municipalities, they barely survive. That's why we think it would be fair to make this big sum, because it's almost the Office for Media Cooperation in Money, almost not, but it's almost even with the Office for European Integration. You're not going to tell me that the pro-European government keeps the European Integration Office at such a low level as the Office for Media Cooperation. Basically, it's the other way around, there's a lot of money here, and that's why we're proposing a 10 million dinar reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6245	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, if we were really a state in the right sense of that word, I mean, first of all, the seriousness of the institutions, we would interrupt this session. If you don't know how to get out of it, I suggest the UN tribunal recipe - simulate the fire drill and get nice and clean in front of the public and go home. But since we're here, I really think there's a reason for me to bring out something that I got from Beta today, or I downloaded it as news, and I don't think our media is going to deliver at all tomorrow. I think this Parliament should, in such conditions as this, when we get news like this, stop working on all points of the agenda, rely on this news alone, call on the President of the Republic and ask him what's going on in the state of Denmark. To read to you the news: "The former European Union President for Kosovo status talks Wolfgang Ischinger said the Kosovo status issue was resolved, but that Belgrade and Pristina's dialogue on concrete issues is necessary. 'Pristinan media reported ten days ago (remember that I warned you all) that Ischinger said that Belgrade and Pristina would surely sit down again to negotiate status. '"What status? Have we ever given authority here to the President of the Republic to discuss status? Did we find out a hundred times in our resolutions that Kosovo's status is resolved by Resolution 1244, and here's what Ischinger tells us. He's secretly negotiating with Tadic. I don't know how they quoted me, he says, but I hope that the negotiations between Pristina and Belgrade will continue. We should, however, wait for a suitable moment. President Boris Tadic and Fatmir Sejdiu, as well as the prime ministers of Serbia and Kosovo, are persons who have to decide when it is best to continue the talks. Maybe around Christmas, we're gonna be dangling around the piglet, and they're gonna be dazzling about selling the state, usually that's how it's done, or St. Nicholas's. According to him, such a decision is not easy for either side, so we have to wait a while. You know why I've been doing this for a while? Because within this whole plan, there was also an attempt to break the SRS, so there wouldn't be a strong opposition when this was agreed, so there's no one to raise a voice, so there's no one to inform the people, so there's no one to call the people. The SRS coup left only a coup, so we warn Boris Tadic to take care of what he's doing. The German diplomat specified that Belgrade and Pristina's dialogue should be guided on concrete issues, such as citizens' movements on both sides of the border - watch out, the borders, so when the status was determined or when the resolution was passed there was no limit, the concept of the border – communication, trade and co-operation. Again, Ischinger proposes a solution such as the 1973 resolution agreement between the two Germanys. Just to remind you of what this same Ischinger said back in 99: "What is happening in Kosovo cannot be called anything other than ethnic cleansing and cannot be tolerated." The one who said that in 99th year should now participate in negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija. Are we all schizophrenic here or what?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6247	On Article 5, sections 3 and 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? The word is Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6248	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, division 3 - Office for Media Cooperation, function 110, economic classification 423 - services per contract, to change the amount of 26.395,000 dinars by 20,650,000 dinars. In Article 5, section 19 - Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, function 40, economic classification 472, that these funds were allocated for social protection benefits in the function of families and children, to change the amount of 25,600,500,000 dinars by 25,606,245,000 dinars. I've been given an extremely incorrect explanation of why this amendment is being rejected. ''Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the funds are intended for the cost of services under contract, under Section 3 - Government, Chapter 3.7-The Office for Media Cooperation, proposed in accordance with the competences and needs of this budget user, so that by rerouting funds of 5,745,000 dinars, the above-mentioned ones would endanger the regular functioning of this budget user. At the same time, we point out that this reduction in expenditure would not contribute significantly to the implementation of expenditure intended for users' rights in the area of childcare, given that the funds for these purposes are provided in accordance with the law laid down in this area. ''I think it is extremely incorrect for citizens, socially endangered families and their children to consider the amount of five million 735 thousand dinars insignificant, or small amounts. That's the amount that would help at least 600 families at least, who would be welcome to make it easier to name this winter. Otherwise, services under contract in government and resolution ministries amount to over 6 billion dinars. The government's Office for Media Cooperation has been allocated a budget rebalance of 79m653 000 dinars. It's obvious, and that's what my previous people here have said, that these five million-million-dollar additional funds are needed over to make the government pay the agencies and media to better report on this government, thanks to the services they're going to pay from these funds. There's nothing to show for it. Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic evaluated the government's work with a clean heel only 15 days ago, where he stressed unanimously as the government's most positive performance assessment. On the occasion of 100 days, the government said the government functions as a team, counting the adoption of the SAA in the Serbian Parliament, an energy agreement, a contract with Fiat. In his exposé here at this house on July 7th, the Prime Minister placed the need to strengthen the economy and the government's social responsibility. During the debate on the Law on Government, I said that the ruling majority of the fruits of rotten political compromises were achieved solely for the sake of power. The opposing choice of the first deputy and the golden voice show that there is no trust in the ruling majority and that we do not speak in honesty. Dishonest among yourselves, and how sincere they were to the citizens, they know it best. Most were made by accepting the G17 political party's promise of free share of action. As a result, five million citizens came to sign up for free action. An agreement with the next coalition partner, potential at the time, PUPS, on an increase in pensions for all pensioners of 10% linear, while thirds were promised 250,000 euros or 250m euros for their support and participation in the government to buy a giraffe. There's nothing going on since the pension increase. The only one, honourable MPs, is a certain giraffe. That's what money was in the budget for. So much for the promises, the citizens have been cheated, the pensioners, it remains for all of us to wait for the giraffe. The situation is that by budgeting we spend 19% of gross social product more than last year, to record according to the World Bank's decline in credit rating for three places, we are now in 94th place, and compared to 2005 for the whole 12 places. That according to the 98th place of business report, Albania is in 65th place, and Bulgaria is 68th in place, only Bosnia and Herzegovina is behind us. According to the IMF report, we spend 500 billion more than we produce. The economy is operating under extremely difficult conditions, a report of indifference prevailed among the businessmen as a result of the financial crisis and expensive money. Prices are rising, supplies are already up over 10%, gas 60%. The price of communals, 70% coal, has been announced. The drop in credit ratings of banks and the monster of the global financial crisis are slowly affecting our country as well. The DSS has indicated this here in parliament, and the ruling majority has been accused of defetism. This government does not, in conclusion, have a clear economic strategy, which shows this budget rebalance. Finally, the government's Office for Media Cooperation is tasked with creating a picture of virtual Serbia, to convince citizens that everything is nice and that honey and milk flow. As the Minister says, the populist economic policy continues. To conclude, for this policy, presented in this budget rebalancing, DSS MPs will not vote in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6249	Mr. Dimitrijevic, although there are three minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6250	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the exposé of the Prime Minister: one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be to strengthen social responsibility towards citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in order to improve the conditions of life and work of all citizens of Serbia, and especially the most vulnerable categories of the population. The city of Paracin is not far from Belgrade, about 150km. In the city of Paracino, in wagons, without electricity and water, lives about 70 children, socially unsettled. We propose an amendment to reroute the funds by some 5,750,000 dinars, and for you it is humiliating and insufficient. It explains that it would endanger the work of a service serving the government in media activities. This is a scandal. It's a scandal when 94 million from the budget are spent on official travel. It's not a scandal for you, and it is for us. It's a tragedy for us when 70 children live without water and electricity, and you won't reroute funds. You say it's too small to do anything. I guarantee that 5,750,000 would solve the problem, at least for a while to take care of those kids. It's this socially responsible government. That's how you take care of the population and that's how you take care of the state. So that's the problem. This government doesn't think anything of the state or the people. This government is completely immature, completely irresponsible. He makes money for travel expenses, daily living, service contracts, and when he's supposed to take care of someone who's threatened by life's existence, who might be at risk of life, that sum is insignificant and can't regulate these things.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6251	Mr. Nikola Savic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6252	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for the amendment of my colleague Radulovic. Before that, I would ask you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, not to answer the Rules of Procedure, to just say a few words. Namely, where you're sitting, where we're all sitting is the National Assembly, there's no workshop to observe your potential patients. You mentioned my name several times today, by thinking that I was causing a disturbance in the presentation of certain speakers. I just didn't do it. Please don't scare me anymore, given the profession you have, because otherwise I'm going to have to move out of this front row, not to be in your sight. I'd go maybe in the back row, but you let some citizens sit there, and the MP in the National Assembly is no place amongst the citizens. When he sits in the National Assembly, there sits only the messengers of the people, and in every other parable of the messengers of the National Assembly is a place among the citizens. All right, let me get back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6253	Excuse me, please. You're my fellow MP and everything I've done, I've done in accordance with the powers and obligations I have as president of the Assembly. I've never experienced you any different at all, because it would be an insult to your personality and to this home. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6254	I didn't say you had me, I said if you keep up like that, you can scare me. Let's get back to the amendment. Col. Radulović submitted the amendment to Article 5. Budget law. I must say that this amendment is in the spirit of all the previous amendments submitted by the MPs, which are required to reduce the cost of functioning of this government. Of course, this government boasts that the government is socially responsible. For God's sake, that's not news. It would be logical for each government to be a socially responsible government and that it is its primary task. However, this government points out that social responsibility component, even so declared, in the first place and considers it to be something exclusive. The government has had many opportunities so far and has to show its social responsibility. Unfortunately, that social responsibility so far has shown itself, according to ministers, according to cabinet members, because we see that the money spent on travel by citizens, on various things. Where are the citizens of Serbia? As I come from Nis, I would like to remind the Serbian public that in Nis the incomes are far below the republican average. Not only in Nis, but in all southern Serbia, the situation is much more difficult. The situation is such that almost every citizen in southern Serbia needs some social assistance or something. Of course, in southern Serbia, there are valuable, modest and honest people who need no help, and they need no help; they need, above all, to have this government create an ambience for business, so that they can manage themselves, and not to get down and survive as they know and know it. Here, one of the opportunities for such a thing is this famous Corridor 10. That's what every government has been talking about since 2000, so here we go. We know that this Corridor 10 has reached the south of Serbia, passed through Leskovci, and east has reached the eastern entrance to Nis. Practically, Corridor 10 south of Serbia makes one appendix. Since the citizens of southern Serbia are worthy of negligence, worthy builders, activate once this Corridor 10, and this will be an opportunity for a large number of these hardworking people to work for themselves and their families. However, this Corridor 10 seems to serve only in all election campaigns. I remember, for example, this very mentioned eastern tour around the city of Nis so far, several prime ministers and several governments have opened, about ten, twelve kilometers of that bypass. Really do something, I'm giving you a concrete proposal and a concrete example, do something about this corridor 10, let's do it. It will be useful for Serbia as well. Some 100km to the border with Macedonia remained unfinished to that corridor, just as much, slightly less than 100km to the border with Bulgaria, that finally southern Serbia felt some benefit and finally started to develop and move. As this all goes sloppy years ago, it seems to me that more ancient Romans in that ancient time were faster, without any technique, built by the famous Imperial Road Via militaris, which was located right in the middle of the road between Rome and Cariglade, and which in that time south of Serbia may have seemed more accessible and accessible to these empires.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6255	Is anyone else picking up? Mr. Markicevic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6256	Dear Presidents, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, the NS MP group supports the amendment of DSS counterpart Milos Radulovic and will vote in favour of the amendment. I wouldn't take my discussion down to the explanations he gave, I think they're quite enough, but it got into my eye, so to speak, an explanation for the rejection of the amendment, so I'm going to read it right here. ''Amendment is not accepted because the funds are intended for service costs under contract, under Section 3 – Government, Chapter 3.7 – The Office for Media Cooperation, proposed in accordance with the competences and needs of this budgetary user, so that the conversion of funds of five million and 745 thousand dinars would endanger the regular functioning of this budget user. If it wasn't for the next attitude, we'd accept it. ''At the same time, we suggest that the said expenditure reduction would not contribute significantly more to the voting of expenditure intended for users' rights in the area of childcare, since the funds for these purposes were provided in accordance with the law laid down in the rights in this area. '"You know how our people usually think, Madam Minister, when it's said that something is in accordance with the law, if by law, it would assume that it's all right, that it's all done. It's like we don't know, and so do you. I firmly believe in your emotions. Do you know how many poor children there are in Serbia? This isn't such a meaningless sum. I calculated earlier that at a rate of 100 euros about 1,000 children would have medicines for which they do not have, and for bus tickets for which they do not have, and for textbooks for which their parents do not have money. This sum is not insignificant at all, but it is a little offensive to this explanation in Section 2. Why am I trying to influence you here, to tell you the truth? Because ever since you became Minister of Finance, I've been following your every statement. I know what your statement was about pensions. You asked pensioners with the smallest pensions to be brought to some very decent level. Of course, it's done differently. Seven-eight percent of pensioners, who already have and live well in this country, were rewarded to get another pension, not those who have the least. So I realized that for your concept, for your responsibility to social justice, and I say it honestly, however you understand me here, and you don't have much support in the government of the Republic of Serbia, or you have to do it for the ruling majority, or because some MPs wouldn't vote for budget rebalancing if they don't. I advise you, according to what you have done today, that you have accepted the NS amendment in a somewhat altered form in agreement, since they are giving the hours legally when a proposal for a new budget should arrive, before it comes here to the Assembly Hall, in front of the MPs and citizens of Serbia, to try to find time and energy, I speak most honestly, and to hold meetings with parliamentary groups, because I believe there will be 10-20 amendments that will be acceptable to both the government and fiscal and economic policy, and opposition and citizens, as is the case with this amendment that we all have adopted here together. Neither the government nor the ruling majority of the crowns will fall if they accept any more amendments to the opposition. You have to believe that when it comes to cases like this, when it comes to social affairs, there is no politics, there is a heart and soul for that people who are suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6257	On Article 5, section 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2(2) point 1. One and six. Budgetary system law. Mrs. Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6258	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I will not enter into the essence of this amendment. It serves me as a basis for what I wanted to say in favour of a discussion that will develop in terms of European integration, and hopefully following the next amendment that comes on the agenda. I think our public is extremely interested in answering the question that has become current lately, which is how much Serbia will lose from unilateral implementation of the SAA. I think there's been a lot of public speculation about this. I would ask the minister to give us an adequate answer to this question. We learned from Mrs Miscevic's interview that a loss is projected somewhere between 70m and 90m euros. It is not a small loss, and to make it clear to our public, it is one and a half percent of total budget inflows. On the other hand, increased imports of products freed from customs payments, which can be reflected in the fact that our domestic products will suffer a lot at that time, as this will all go to the expense of domestic products and companies, which will result in a further decline in economic activity. Also, in a situation where economic downturns from seven to 4.5% and budget revenues are reduced by VAT, I think it is extremely unacceptable to further reduce the revenue side of the budget. Of course, in these very uncertain times. I believe this is a gesture of goodwill, but I think it's definitely not the time for this kind of procedure right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6259	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, section 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment not legally possible, as the budget law cannot change the name of the budgetary user. MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6260	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 5 of the law essentially requires a review of the work of the EU Association Office. In a broader context, the amendment indirectly points to the execution of the current unilateral economic policy, which is exclusively dogmatically oriented towards the EU alone. The amendment is based on the article. Twenty-five and twenty-six. The law on the budgetary system is therefore accurate and accurate in legal and economic terms. It is also based on an EU SAA analysis. As is known, the alleged historic agreement was initialled in November 2007, and signed on April 29th 2008. As a result of the rapid implementation of the SAA, Serbia also signed a transitional agreement on trade with the EU. The transitional agreement concerns the economic part of the SAA and allows for the implementation of the SAA in this area, without waiting for ratification in EU countries. Like the SAA, it effectively destroys Serbia's territorial integrity, due to provisions on good neighbourly relations related to so-called. the state of Kosovo, so is the Transition Agreement more than harmful to our economy and agriculture. As for the good neighbourly relationship between the so-called so-called. Kosovo and Serbia, I would draw citizens' attention to the news published today on the site "Bete" at 14.10 p.m. Wolfgang Ischinger, a German diplomat and EU representative at the Kosovo status talks, said his plan should be applied, in fact, to the EU's plan on good neighbourly relations between the so-called. Kosovo and Serbia. The plan is based on an agreement concluded between the two Germanys in 1973. Is this a new policy announced by our authorities regarding Kosovo, or is that what the citizen Nikolic publicly supports about President Tadic's policy towards Kosovo? If so and if there is an agreement on the relation of the citizens of Nikolic -- President Tadic, and the activation of Ischinger's plan obviously indicates it, then the public should know that it was one of the reasons behind the failed coup in the SRS. The work of the Office and the provisions of the Transitional Agreement should also be monitored in this context. For example, Annex 1 of the Transitional Agreement lists our customs concessions for EU products. The customs rate will be reduced in the following order. On the date of entry into force of the agreement, customs rates will fall to 70% of the basic customs duty, 1 January of the first year following the entry into force of the agreement to 40% of the basic customs duty and 1 January of the second year following the entry into force of the agreement, the remaining customs rates will be abolished. The Annex then lists the industrial products to which this regime will apply, for example, nitrogen fertilisers, various medicinal products, light paints, tubes, intestines and accessories for them, self-adhesive plates, new external pneumatic tyres, splinters, barrels, barrels, various types of paper and paperboard, hats and mirrors, various types of machinery, buttons, etc., from needle to locomotive. Similarly predicted for other industrial products listed in Annex 1B, the only difference is a slightly longer deadline for the total elimination of customs duties, as well as in Annex 1V, which also provides for Serbian customs concessions. Annex 3 provides for the suspension of customs duties for unlimited quantities of agricultural products listed in the tables from the date of entry into force of the Agreement. These are various kinds of cattle, livestock, pig meat, eggs, vegetables, fruits, etc. Those agricultural products that are not provided for in this Annex are included in Annex 3B, which foresees a gradual elimination of customs duties, both in Annex 3V and in 3G, which also foresee a reduction and elimination of customs duties. Therefore, the implementation of the Transitional Trade Agreement is a blow to Serbia's budget and to our customs revenues. This should be made plain and clear, not using phrases about some European future and the miraculous power of the Stabilisation Agreement and of the Transition Agreement accompanying it. In addition, even Tanja Miscevic, former head of the Association Office, admitted in an interview with the "Plaise of the Public" that the implementation of the Transition Agreement will cost us between 70m and 90m euros. Another estimate is in circulation, which is also published by our public and which also comes from the authorities, under which the implementation of the Transition Agreement will cost us about 150m euros. A third estimate of economists has been made in Pecat weekly that the transitional agreement will cost us about 400m euros. Therefore, regardless of which one of these estimates is correct, not only is the issue raised by the amendment, i.e. The question of justification of the existence of the Association Office is already being asked the following questions: why is it persistent and dogmatic that we must be a member of the EU at all costs, if this is economically harmful to our economy and agriculture. So the very setting of EU membership issues, which is economically harmful to our country, shows the absurdity of the financial situation in our country and the existence of the Association Office. This should also be added to the existence of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration, which further devises the existence of the Association Office. When such facts are presented, it is often stated as counterarguments that all countries in the environment wanted to be or are already in the EU. It is the experiences of our neighbors that show that we need to think carefully about the economic justification of the so-called The Brussels road and the acceptance of this amendment. Look what's going on with our neighbors in Hungary. The economic crisis in Hungary is due to the fact that the Hungarian external debt reached about $125 billion at the end of 2007. In the same period, the budget deficit was 7.8 billion dollars and the balance of payments deficit was about $8 billion. This is official data from the U.S. National Authority website. Therefore, neither the 2006 poll results nor the first half of 2008. In 2006, only 39% of the Hungarian citizens surveyed supported the country's EU membership. In the first half of 2008, about 36% of the Hungarians surveyed said they benefit from EU membership, and even 52% claimed that Hungary does not benefit from EU membership. Taking into account these data, it is also clear why the words of the former Commissioner of Hungary are true in the EU, Mr Peter Balaž: ''The EU first has hope, and then gives almost nothing. ''In this context, our authorities should look up to Hungarians, who have realised what the new economic reality is in Europe and what the EU is bringing. On December 7th 2007, then, Russian Prime Minister Zupkov visited Budapest. According to Hungarian and Western media reports, the visit went very well. A co-operation action plan was agreed between 2008 and 2009. It has been said that trade between the two countries has tripled over the last five years. In 2006, it reached $8 billion, $200 million. A new $800m increase is expected this year. Hungary exports machinery, medicines and products of the chemical industry to the Russian market. Five contracts were signed during Zubkov's visit, including the one on the Suhoi aircraft's remont on Hungarian soil. It discussed buying new Russian civil aircraft to Suhoj 100 for the purposes of Malev, more specifically the sale of 15 Russian new passenger aircraft. The price of this 95-seat passenger plane is about $30 million. Otherwise, Malev has a big stake in Russian capital. Also, the Hungarian prime minister said he had received a firm promise from Zubkov that one end of the South Stream gas pipeline would pass through Hungary. Otherwise, about a month ago, you saw a sharp and dignified reaction by Hungarian politicians and media at the request of the US ambassador in Budapest to review co-operation with Russia in the area of gas and oil industry. During the visit, Zubkov agreed on business co-operation between Hungary and numerous Russian regions, as well as the opening of consulates in Russian regions. A protocol on co-operation in the field of culture has also been signed. The Russian prime minister said in Budapest that relations between the two countries have been raised to a new level. He noted that co-operation records the rise in the energy sector, in the areas of transport, nano-technology, health and banking. During that time, the Hungarian prime minister even said -- co-operation with Russia has no alternative. On the other hand, the Serbian-Russian exchange is several times smaller than the Hungarian-Russian. Despite the existence of a single free trade agreement with the Russian Federation, Russian capital is constantly being hampered by political demands from Brussels, e.g. in the case of JAT. A South Stream gas pipeline agreement through Serbia is treated as a second-rate issue in relation to any agreement with the EU. Also, it is not difficult to assume any sharp campaign would lead against one who would say something similar as the Hungarian prime minister about economic co-operation without an alternative to the Russian Federation. So Hungarian politicians were wise enough to leave the disputed Russian-Hungarian past behind. For example, in 1848 and 1956. On the other hand, despite the fact that the Russians and Serbs may be the two closest peoples in historical, cultural and any other sense, no Russian prime minister has visited Serbia since 2000. Unfortunately, such a poorly-covered anti-Russian campaign is even present in Serbia's national EU integration programme. In the production of this 840-page document, one of the main roles had just been played by the Association Office. Instead of dealing with concrete issues in Serbia's national EU integration programme, such as the advantages and disadvantages of our country's Brussels path, by comparing figures, by assessing negative and positive effects, or by organising a genuine public debate, not by marketing, which would be called upon by those who disagree with EU membership, and who oppose the Brussels dogmia by economic and legal arguments, the authors strongly attacked the Russian Federation in this document. For example, page 767 reads: The agreement between the SRJ government and the Russian Federation government on free trade was signed on 28 August 2008. The Republic of Serbia, a legal successor to the SRJ, is the only state outside the borders of the Association of Independent States with which the Russian Federation signed such an agreement. The elimination of customs duties for the largest number of products originating in Serbia in the Russian Federation created favourable conditions for the establishment of long-term forms of co-operation in all segments of the economy. This is all true, but then there's a conclusion that's mildly scandalous. He's like he was written in some propaganda center. The agreement provides that each year protocols containing exceptions to the free trade regime for which customs duties continue to be paid. However, the only protocol with lists of goods excluded from the free trade regime signed at the conclusion of the basic agreement remains in force. In fact, while attempts to move forward with liberalisation have been made on our part, there has been no correction and further reduction. So, it's been suggested that the evil Russians are guilty of everything again. They're probably also guilty because they opened up their market to us and because they offered us a contract like none of the countries west of Karpat, or because the Russians opened the market for over 90% of our products. According to this perverse logic, the Russians are guilty and because we haven't had an ambassador in Moscow in over a year, they're also guilty because our government wants to join Euro-Atlantic integration, namely the NATO Pact and the European Union. At the same time, while authorities in charge of co-operation with the EU are dealing with attacks on the Russian Federation, foreign firms in our country are using a free trade agreement that has Serbia with the Russian Federation and exporting its products to the Russian market. According to economic data, the Russian Federation is more exporting foreign businesses from our territory than ours. If it wasn't harmful for our economy, it would be ridiculous. That's why we need to stop this mixing of ideology and economy. The dogmatic trend towards the EU is not based on the interests of our economy. That is why this amendment should be adopted and the purpose of the Office for EU Accession should be changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6261	Mr. Obradovic by amendment, then Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6262	Madam President, Madam Minister, I will take the opportunity, not to talk about the amendment, but not to report to any of the other matters for which the Rules of Procedure provides opportunities. I think after a month or 20 days since there's been a serious discussion here in the Assembly, we've agreed that there's been a serious financial crisis in the world. Directly or indirectly, the crisis will also affect Serbia. So far, the National Bank, first of all, has managed to defend the course of the dinar with its policy and significantly minimise the effects of the crisis on Serbia at the moment. As things are going to happen, it's hard to assume because in Iceland a few months ago, it looked completely different. In Ireland, we see what's going on in Hungary, slowly spilling it over to neighbouring countries, Romania, Bulgaria and Greece. I say, whether directly or indirectly, that crisis will come to us. If nothing else, through direct foreign investment, through credit and through everything necessary for the state of Serbia to function. The government has proposed measures, and we've already talked about it. It is proposed to secure the deposit. We believe that at this point Serbia is having a hard time guaranteeing 50,000 euros. We think what we as DSS have proposed -- 20,000 euros -- is a much more realistic amount. We agree that it's a good law that proposes to abolish the savings tax. There must be an urgent change to the Charter of Values Act. We cannot agree in any way with the President of the Securities Commission who says this is just a slight imbalance on the stock market because most of the most liquid actions record a historical minimum. Most banks have been recording new and new historical minima for days. Our stock exchanges, and the stock exchanges in the environment, say, in BiH are below the value of the moment the stock market is formed, and this is a situation more than serious. Such a serious situation requires an absolutely broad social consensus and requires the National Assembly to assume its responsibility and role. We think that only the National Assembly has the power to gather in one place all those independent institutions that only correspond to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the Securities Commission that is responsible for the stock exchange, both the National Bank and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That is the only way, with the right choice of measures and the adoption of a new budget, and everything that follows, we can minimise the effects of this crisis on Serbia. The Democratic Party of Serbia and the DSS MP club today proposed that a committee be formed to monitor the global economic crisis and commissions that will take measures to mitigate the negative effects and impact of the crisis on Serbia, following an urgent procedure. We propose that the members of that commission be the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Finance Minister, Governor of the National Bank, President of the Securities Commission, President of the National Assembly that would chair the commission, and one representative each of the parliamentary groups. The commission should be formed urgently, and we do not think that this should be delayed, as weeks of savings will follow, and foreign savings in banks will be seriously compromised in that week. There shouldn't be any panic because there's no room for panic, there's room for seriousness. We do not see a single reason why the congregation does not have all these laws on the agenda. These are good measures, we support them, and I believe that they will be supported by the vast majority of MPs in the Assembly, but if those measures are too late, then the effects will be minimal. We don't see a single reason why next week the Assembly doesn't have the Deposit Insurance Act, the Securities Act, the Saving Tax Act and all that it needs to do in the new budget for 2009. Also, they are now negotiating with the IMF. The National Bank of Serbia is practically forming an interbank market, which is currently not functioning. The question is how long will the National Bank be able to defend this course? Yesterday, she intervened with 30m euros, from day to day, in the last seven days it was over 200m euros. We're sure the governor of politics that was led in the previous period will be able to defend the course. But the idea should be considered, since at this point the IMF mission is here, and it has already intervened in Hungary with 20 billion, the International Monetary Fund and the world-wide international financial institutions do not have unlimited resources, should consider whether there is a need for a possible loan that would be provided, because if we report late, we may later be unable to attract funds. I say we think about it, and we'll see about it. We have proposed this today and we hope that the Assembly, and the President of the National Assembly, and all of us together will assume the responsibility we have under the laws of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6263	Mr. Palalic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6264	Dear Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, within the framework of an amendment submitted by my distinguished colleague Dejan Mirovic, it is indeed an opportunity to discuss how the government of the Republic of Serbia has led the policy of EU integration, of course to discuss the work of the EU Association Office and the extent and effects of this policy since the new government was formed. To remind us that Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic put the European definition of Serbia first in his exhibition to define six priorities of the future government. A rather vague, comprehensive notion, which should have convinced us that European integration, what was the key motive of the biggest party's campaign in the ruling coalition, would be the basis and foundation of the government's policy. As part of the exposé, when this point came to light, Serbia was said to be an EU candidate by the end of 2008 or possibly early in 2009, exactly as it says. That's what's said, that's what's promised, that's what the new government in the National Assembly got in early July. We are as DSS during the discussion on this exposé, and we want to remind that, we have pointed to a number of things that are going to happen, which are just about European integration and what I could call a big dispute that the state of Serbia has with the EU. The consequences of the dispute, which has not been resolved in time, which could have been resolved when negotiating the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we now see in a series of steps taken by the EU, which Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is said to be pro-Europeanly defined, have no response. We had a fact of ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in the National Assembly, against which the DSS voted in a euphoric atmosphere. The transitional agreement and the positive effects of the agreement on the Serbian economy were expected to take effect. The EU has not decided to bring the agreement into force. Meanwhile, there are some things that are directly affecting the state sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, which we as DSS have warned about, and we are slowly approaching the culmination of it. It is the legalization of Eulexa, the installation of Eulexa in KIM space, which is in direct function of implementing Ahtisaari's plan. He doesn't have another role and another mission, but he's just implementing Ahtisaari's plan. Today we even saw the text in "Politics" that no one negotiates. It is on the first side of the most prominent Serbian list, everyone is fenced, no one is negotiating on Eulex. No one knows that someone is negotiating, and we hear from the EU's top representatives that it is, more or less, a done deal. In yesterday's statement, spokeswoman Kristina Galjak made it very clear that negotiations are being finalised and that Eulex is in the post of carrying out a joint action in February just as it comes to installing Eulex, joint action brought ahead of Kosovo's declaration of independence. That's the reality we're in. Today we have a statement by Wolfgang Ischinger, a former EU negotiator, who clearly said Kosovo's status is resolved, which is what we assume, as an EU representative, that he said that the EU is also agreeing, only now it is necessary for Serbia and Kosovo to agree on what their relations will be. To remind us that during the negotiation process there were two plans: one was the factical, legalization of Eulexa, Ahtisaari's plan, and the other was Ischinger's plan. Serbia accepts EULEX and now we expect a fully established one, and Wolfgang Ischinger announces that Serbia accepts this other plan in some perspective. It is one package that we cannot separate and we are just witnessing the fact that Serbia is slowly entering the project after the new government is formed. Note for one moment very important, the European Commission's report in Serbia. For the first time, it mentions Serbia's request to be constructive when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija's participation in regional initiatives. It is a request to the state of Serbia. In the framework of the discussion on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we have just pointed out that there will be a demand for Serbia, within the framework of a policy relating to regional co-operation, that Serbia will have to accept exactly what is now slowly as a new condition for Serbia, in addition to the conditions relating to co-operation with The Hague tribunal, which is the acceptance of the state of Kosovo and in the ultimate truth and recognition of the state. So a very indicative report and no one in the National Assembly should keep their eyes closed in front of that fact. Taking into account this request, the acceptance of Eulex, Ischinger's announcement that this is the next step Serbia and Serbian representatives should take, we have one closed image. We have the fact that the previous government, headed by Vojislav Kostunica, has rejected it, and we have the fact that the new government accepts all this. At the same time, no shift in European integration is taking place. These are very concrete facts that no one in Serbia can escape from. In the end, I would like to say, in this fight for Kosovo, Serbia had one strong ally -- the Russian Federation. It is unacceptable and incomprehensible that key projects and economic co-operation with the Russian Federation in all possible ways are trying to prevent it. The example is the privatisation of JAT and the gas-naphtha agreement. We want to say one more thing, Serbia is a necessary solid alliance with the Russian Federation, which is now promoting a new policy - the policy of the multilateral world. Serbia has come under the conditions of the universal world, which the other state dictated, to be kidnapped by KIM. We should have a strong alliance with a state that wants to build new international relations, partnership relations, trust, respect for sovereignty, and which on these principles wants to build relations and partnership with Serbia, open doors to Russian capital, open doors to allies. In this way, Serbia will be on the side of a better and fairer world that is now being promoted by our Russian Federation partner.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6265	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, section 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Micic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Articles 26, paragraphs 1 and 3. Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6266	President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, a few days ago we passed the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Corruption and the fight against corruption are the subject of almost all political parties and politicians. Over the past few days, we have shown the depth of corruption in the country in the case of gas brokers, but not just on this case. That is why we think, and also because of some signal or opinion that this agency is in fact an attempt to break up the Council for the fight against corruption, the government's council, which was founded by the government of Zoran Djindjic. We think it's a good thing we have an agency, but it's also good to strengthen that advice, because it advises first, while the agency has executive powers and secondly, that's the government's advice. In the history of the Council's work, it can't be said that the Council has not justified its existence and that many things have not been opened, initiated and so forth, often or always not to the satisfaction of the government, or the first Kostunica, or others, and this objectively still takes a short time for it to enter something that would be major corruption. That's why we think there's a little more money to be allocated to the Anti-Corruption Council. From where? Well, there's money in the budget for the administrative court. He's gone. Madam Minister, you and I both know he'll be gone by the end of the year. We suggest that the money be transferred to the Anti-Corruption Council. It's somewhere around 11 million dinars more for the Council. We think that money, which is already scheduled for the administrative court, maybe this summer when you wrote the budget you thought or someone told you it was going to happen, but now we're in November and it's not going to happen, and since it's the money, it's just rerouting. When we get the budget, we'll probably get it by midnight, then we'll see how much it is for the administrative court, and it's probably going to be up in 2009, and it's going to be up in 2009, so this amendment, where we're adding 11,260,000 to the Anti-Corruption Council, is connected to a future amendment where we're proposing that we delete this administrative court that it doesn't have, and there's money, so it's going to go back to the reserve probably, and the reserve is a few times higher than the budget increase anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6267	Anyone else want a word? Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6268	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I support this amendment and the DSS is behind the fact that this amendment must be accepted, primarily because of our situation. We know that according to the report, Grekos ranks 85th out of 180 countries with an index of corruption 3.4, such as Uganda, Albania, Panama, Senegal, which means that Serbia is really high in corruption. Of course, the report has long been hidden from all of us, both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia. That something was going on behind the hill became clear when Mr. President on his main party committee said he would deal with corruption in his ranks and then he started to arrest the best mayor and talk about it all, while Mr. Tadic also promised us a solution to the Bodrum affair, which is also a very strange affair that has never been resolved. It is quite clear that we must begin to deal with corruption in the country and it is clear that we must stand behind any organisation, an institution that is seriously involved in this business. We had one who took this job seriously, didn't take her opinion too seriously. Now that it's a problem for us, because it publishes information that's not exactly for the public, we're going to shut it down, and then we're going to ask for a new one to start over, and every time we have that same transition period of a few years, until something starts to work, so when it does, we're going to end it. And because of that, I have to say one more thing that I think is extremely important, because I see people watching this session of the Assembly, they come up looking for help for some very simple things that are really in their lives insurmountable problems. We were contacted by a gentleman from Krupanj who says it is a shame to spend the budget and how the national funds are being wasted, and he who lives in Krupanj, the municipality of Krupanj, says - the municipality of Krupanj does not have the means to pay the Municipality of Loznica 30,000 per month for the use of daily stay services for my child, and they are throwing money away. I'll explain what this is about, because a few years ago, the gentleman also asked for help here in the Assembly, from all the parliamentary groups, to help him solve the problem. It's about a single father, who I've been raising his severely ill, a disabled child, that's why he can't work, which is why he belongs to that category of citizens of those more than 70% of citizens who can't raise their child in any other way than their own, and live to help the state. We helped him put the child in a living room facility, which the small municipality of Krupanj does not have and then sends the child to Loznica, but now there is a problem that the municipality of Krupanj cannot pay 30,000, what it costs a monthly service the municipality of Loznica provides. I have one more thing to say. He of these funds the state pays and medicines that are not on the list of medicines that can be given free of charge. When we look at that item in the budget of two billion and 700 million for Serbia's ski resorts, and in that part of it I saw that one fun park on a fine mountain is being made and that the main story from that amusement park is going to be Harry Potter, how much do you think that parent and how much fun park and Harry Potter mean to that child? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6269	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 5, section 3, the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Articles 26, paragraphs 1 and 3. Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the 5th parliamentary group, the SRS amendment was submitted by counterpart Natasa Jovanovic. The amendment proposed that Article 5, Section 3, Chapter 3.9, function 360, in economic classification 424, in columns 6 and 8 of the amount of 8.800,000 be replaced by 12,800,000. The intention shown by this amendment, counterpart Jovanovic, is to provide four million dinars more for the work of the Anti-Corruption Council. The government has decided not to accept this amendment. It has thus proved that there is no willingness or political will to finally start fighting corruption. Corruption is present at all levels and in all areas of life. The Anti-Corruption Council consists of nine members, and the government has decided that this council is no longer working by establishing a Anti-Corruption Agency. Recently and passed the Anti-Corruption Agency Act in this assembly, so in future, one man, director of the Agency, will make decisions and assess the existence or absence of corruption, so there is no more room for advice as a collective body. This only proves that the serious fight against corruption in Serbia will no longer be by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6271	Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6272	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, allow me to refer to the amendment submitted by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic to Article 5. The bill, which reads: "In Article 5, Section 3, Chapter 3.9, Function 360, in economic classification 424, in columns 6 and 8, the amount of 8,800,000 is replaced by 12,800,000". Why has this amendment been proposed? It has a very clear explanation, there is an excuse here for the fact that the other day we passed a law, that is, the majority adopted in this House laws relating to corruption and crime. Mrs Natasa Jovanovic suggested that instead of 8 million and 800,000 dinars be awarded to the Agency and the Council by 12 million and 800 thousand dinars. Why? It is high time in Serbia to start solving problems in terms of corruption and crime. This institution for which this amount is allocated deserves attention and should have priority over many other budget users. We cannot just declare a vow and promise here that in Serbia we will deal with this evil, which in Serbia is the government and which has taken a broad deal. Not only has it taken a wide range of situations, but it's a cancer wound in all the institutions of our system. One such working body, such an institution must be well-organised, professional and technical, materially secure to be able to deal with crime and corruption. The judiciary as an institution is a constitutional category, one of the branches of the government: legislative, executive and judicial. The judicial authority is a constitutional category, which means that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has dedicated special provisions to the judiciary, which should be the bearer of fighting and fighting corruption and crime in Serbia. Namely, in Article 142. The constitution of the Republic, the Court's principle, is a unique judicial authority in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Item 2: ''Courts are independent and independent in their work and judge on the basis of the Constitution, laws and other general acts, when provided for by law, the general rules of international law and approved international contracts. 'Station 3: 'The hearing before the court is public and can only be limited in accordance with the Constitution.' Item 5: "The judges and judges of the jury take part in the trial, in the manner laid down by law." Item 6: "The law can prescribe that only judges can judge in certain courts and certain matters." I will tell you why I refer to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The court judges in the council, and the law can provide for an individual judge to judge certain matters. What does the Constitution predict when it comes to the kinds of courts in the Republic of Serbia? "The judicial authority in the Republic of Serbia belongs to the courts of general and special jurisdiction. The establishment, organisation, jurisdiction, arrangement and composition of courts are determined by law." Item 3: "I cannot establish temporary, interrupted or extraordinary courts". It's something that's very important in this Constitution and what's good, so that we don't apply the provisions of Hamurabi's law. The Supreme Cassation Court is the highest court in the Republic of Serbia. The budget provides funds for the Supreme Cassation Court, and we do not yet have an organised or established Supreme Cassation Court. I ask the question: why are these funds being provided for the Supreme Cassation Court if we do not have a Court of Cassation? When's he gonna start working? So we're detaching funds now, and those funds need to serve someone to point them on the other side. We don't have a Supreme Cassation Court and we don't know what's going to happen to those funds. Anything is possible, Madam Minister. I have a right to doubt it. The Supreme Cassation Court headquarters is in Belgrade. The President of the Supreme Cassation Court, on a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary, is elected by the National Assembly, in the opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Cassation Court and the National Assembly's competent board. We don't even have such a proposal, that it arrived at parliament, and the budget funds are already being planned here. The President of the Supreme Cassation Court is elected for a period of five years and cannot be re-elected. The President of the Supreme Cassation Court shall cease office before the end of time, etc. Something from article 145 of the norm, to remind ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have no doubt that you are not in the process of this matter, but let us remind ourselves and for the sake of the expert public, in the end. The court decisions provided for by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in article 145 are made on behalf of the people. The court decisions are based on the Constitution, the law, the approved international contracts and the regulations adopted under the law. Court decisions are mandatory for everyone and cannot be subject to extrajudicial control. The court ruling may only be reviewed by the competent court in a lawfully prescribed procedure. By pardoning or amnesty, the sentence imposed may be forgiven in general or in part without a court ruling. Therefore, it is known which competent state authority has the right to grant pardons. The continuity of judicial function, something that has been current these days. That is why I am looking right at the judiciary and I would like to draw attention to the expert public, and also to you, Madam Chairman, both ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament. In Article 146. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is foreseen to be a permanent judicial function. Exceptionally, the first person to be elected judge is elected for three years. We expect it to be in a new set of laws, which is announced, to be referred to the procedure of the National Assembly. The election of judges: "The National Assembly, on a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary, elects a first-time judge. The judge's term of office, which was first elected to the judge's office, lasts three years. The High Council of the Court shall, in accordance with the law, elect judges for the permanent performance of the judicial office in the same or other court. The High Judicial Council shall decide on the choice of judges who are in permanent judicial office in a second or higher court. "Independence of the judge: "The judge is independent and subject only to the Constitution and the law." We are now coming to the provisions of Article 149 and I am asking a question, and from my long-standing practice, there is Mr Batic, ex-minister of justice, and secondly, the doctor of law and law, in any case, has experience in this, what I do not like and what I have objections about, that is that the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic made an appointment yesterday at which elected officials attended, including the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia and others from the prosecution, from the court. What I find not acceptable and not good is that it is known that the president of the party, therefore the president of the Republic, is planning a meeting and warning ahead, and in advance, not to threaten, and announcing judicial reform, the choice of judges, the organisation of courts and prosecutors. The set of laws should come to parliament anyway, but it is known which way. That means the proposer should be the government. In my view, it's not acceptable, I have a serious problem, that the president of the party, so DS, and the president of the state announces some kind of organization, and what we're going to do in court, and how we're going to deal with a number of courts and a number of judges and prosecutors. That's not good. It is an influence on how judges will be elected, what their fate will be, whether judges who are now in office as judges and prosecutors will be elected. This should be left to the High Council of the judiciary and parliament. That is why I believe that this is the wrong way and that it is not in accordance with the Constitution, because the President of the Republic has instruments in which it can point, possibly, to respect the Constitution and the law. A major panic prevailed in the judiciary, and judges and prosecutors are concerned. (President: Mr. Jojic, you need to bring an end, your parliamentary group has a few more seconds. I'll finish, I'm sorry. The judges and prosecutors were concerned after this message. I believe that this set of laws should go to a professional public debate, come through the legislator to parliament, and Parliament decides who will be, because it is not good to create a panic and scare people from the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6273	A set of judicial laws will be held at the first next session. Mr. Batic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6274	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I am referring to what Honorable counterpart Jojic mentioned, but I think it is high time to make a C-section in the judiciary. It seems to me that there is now a political will to do so, to separate the wheat from the weeds, because as soon as there comes a story of re-election immediately those who are insecure and anxious about their positions and functions raise their voice and shit. Otherwise, this set of judicial laws, as far as I'm aware from the media, was adopted yesterday at the government's session and, therefore, no one is god-given to perform a judicial function for life. I've turned my attention to the fictitious categories of appeals and administrative courts, and I don't know what's going to happen to that money. It's better to move to other parts of the judiciary, which may be struggling and barely putting an end to the end. It is clear that by the end of the year they will not be established. So, I don't know what those items, especially the enormous items for appeals courts, mean. On the occasion of this first act, I remember the time I was minister of justice and when it was based, I think, at the time of article 5. The law on courts, the minister had the opportunity to launch the initiative, not to propose, but to launch an initiative that attended the General Session of the Supreme Court, etc., for the resolution of individual judges. It was perfectly logical for me, because if people were expecting human change everywhere and lustration everywhere, and it didn't happen so much as anywhere, and that's the reason for the DOS crash. But that's what I honestly believed. I wanted that lustration done in the judiciary. How? Nice, you had Gonzales' report, where the names of the judges who participated in the election thefts were named. You've had your political processes mounted, Spider-Osa, trial of Blair, Clinton, empty chairs and chairs. You had a final report, which at least got the Department of Justice on resolved cases and first-degree confirmations. You have judges who confirm 10% of the convictions. You know, colleague Jojic, the only quick justice is true justice. I don't think that's because he was president at that meeting, etc. The government has proposed a set of judicial laws, a debate will be held here. And I mention again that people, a man scratches himself where he itches. Those who are terrified of their positions, they're starting to blow shit up. It's already been seen. Why re-election? Judges are given God, the crown will fall from their heads, please, everyone should bear responsibility for what he does, including the judges. They're not polar bears, they're not sacred cows. Those who work need maximum reward, high wages. That was my logic. Those who have no idea, go somewhere else. Not that people go to courts for hundreds of years and never get to that kind of expected justice. In order not to report for this next amendment to the Office of the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, it is the same member and I will be very brief, and I am irritated by a little colleague Krasic, not maliciously, but he mentioned that I am probably the main culprit and winemaker that Bruno Vekaric is doing his job. To the general public, Bruno Vekaric is a spokesman for the Special Prosecutor for War Crimes. He was the secretary of the Justice Department and a member of my cabinet. I'm not guilty at all. I am also proud that current Justice Minister Snezana Malovic was a member of my cabinet, and that Aleksandar Miscevic is now state secretary... If you apologized, so I could continue or you could come and talk. It's not right. You talk all the time. You can't do two jobs at the same time, but good. So, Aleksandar Miscevic, Secretary of State for Defence Dusan Protic, assistant trade minister, it's only for me satisfaction. What's Bruno Vekaric doing? He works in a prosecutor's office, and I'm proud of it, because as then minister of justice, I was the creator of both the prosecution and the court of organised crime, and the prosecution and the court of war crimes. The public is undivided in the assessment that these are the most qualitative judicial bodies Serbia has today. It's also some kind of satisfaction for me. As far as war crimes are concerned, what was the idea of the establishment and the prosecution and the war crimes court? It was the idea that those who committed crimes on our behalf are tried here and not in The Hague, to show to themselves and the world that we have passed that catharsis, that crime cannot have a national omen and that it is a terror terror and that it is a crime and that it cannot have a name and name. As I fought to find the KLA leaders on the defendant's bench, and Haradinaj above all, and Ceku, too, and Thaci, so I wanted those who committed crimes on our behalf to embarrass the centuries of our glorious history to answer, but before our judicial authorities. At the time, that was welcomed. I must tell you, I had a promise from the attorney general at the time that four generals were tried before that court. Then came the shift of power and then the first idea was that the court would be abolished, that some enormous money would be distributed to families of the Hague indictees, etc. Then there was a retreat; he said, no, you have no will nor further. If you want to abolish that court, then something's wrong. Now let me tell you a little detail, a little digression, and a propo of that topic. In August, I was in Morocco, of course, not as Kristo with other people's money, but at my expense, somehow I got to Malaga, and from the Malaga bus across Marbella and Al Jaziras, then by ferry to Tangier or Tangier, and I repeat the whole story for one simple reason. Thanks to our ambassador, Mr. Mehmed Bećovic, I have also seen Rabat, and Marak, and Fes, and Meknes and Casablanca, but I have experienced the most pleasant moments in this Tangier. Why? The ambassador took me to a villa where one of the five or six families of people from mixed marriages in Bosnia lives. They, in order not to destroy their marriages, so as not to destroy their families, went together to Morocco. And Ferrid and his wife Gordana, and Ivan, and Vera, and Shead, and Branka, and Senida and Bekir, they watch the program, they watch this assembly now, they love Bosnia, they love Serbia. They have houses, fairies and pools, but drilling them into patriotic breasts, from both sides and on the third, drove them out of their houses, from their hearths to the white world. They live well. But there's some nostalgia, there's some longing. Their hearts and souls are here in our places. I mention it all for the simple reason that there must be and that the war crimes court works to punish those who, I repeat for the third time, committed crimes on our behalf. It simply must not seem that threshold and that moral catharsis must inevitably be crossed. What was going on with us? We never had the potential, I was even like Don Quixote, pretty lonely in that government where I was a minister, without my obligation, my associates and myself. I collected evidence of KLA leaders' crimes, the crimes of Naser Oric, the crimes of Ali Izetbegovic and fought a real verbal war with Karl del Ponte about it. Everyone else kept quiet. Everyone was silent because there was a balance of crime here. Like, don't touch us for our crimes, we won't touch you either. I remember what Ulof Palme said, what I mentioned earlier, that terror is always terror and that crime is always a crime and that I can never justify myself with any higher goals and higher interests. That's why we need the affirmation and the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, and above all, our war crimes court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6275	Thank you. Ms. Marina Ragush, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6276	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of article 104. The presentation of a previous colleague has indeed damaged the dignity of the SRS parliamentary group, and I believe in the good part of the SPS. Mr. Batic, whoever went to The Hague had a bad time. Co-operation with The Hague tribunal looks as follows, mostly Serbian heads are delivered to The Hague. The majority of Serbs are under very unclear circumstances, some investigations remain ongoing, ending their lives in the UN tribunal's detention units. I agree with you, every crime has its own name and name. We have been here over the past 10 days asking concrete questions concerning the responsibility of this country for the fate of the nation. The history of the Serbian people ends in The Hague, and it will not be long, not because Serbian radicals speak, but because they are now talking about the minds of the world's intelligence. It will prove that the Serb people did not wage this war, that this war has been imposed on the Serb people, that it is the joint criminal enterprise of the world's greatest forces, Western-European democracies, in order to bring an end to certain regroupions on the international scene. We'll see about that soon enough. I will only here, for the sake of the public who listens to this and for all Hague detainees and those who have been persecuted only because they have performed their duty, whether as officers or as soldiers, to read the following - the French counterintelligence service has been charged with arms trafficking with Croatia between 91 and 95, with the consent of the Jerusalem Palace, the head of the French state's headquarters, according to the newspaper "Liberasia", and conveys a national service. The text on the affair of the secret arms sale in Croatia, dealing with the French intelligence service, at a time when the UN arms embargo was in place to deliver weapons to the former Yugoslavia, Mr Batic, lists details of cases that even penetrate French state interests. It's 1991-1995. There you also had certain actions of our intelligence and counterintelligence services before the start of the Yugoslav collapse. Mr. Aleksandar Vasiljevic brought a very well-restrained plan of Croatia to the public, which concerned the direct attack on Yugoslav barracks and the butchering of Yugoslav soldiers. Also, you have a falsified report from Helen Rant. You've got a yellow house in Albania that's been dealing with beastly crimes. I welcome what you have done, that you have tried to collect evidence of Albanian terrorists. In 99, I apologize for time, but just to finish the sentence, just to finish the thought, Serbia, or the Serbian people, not Slobodan Milosevic, the Serbian people were bombed on the basis of a forged report by Helen Rant. So we are for investigating all crimes, every crime has its own name and name, but let's talk about the genocide committed over the Serb people.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6277	Mr. Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6278	I think this is a step-by-step mistake. I don't know if I once praised The Hague tribunal in one word. Whoever loves him should be in his house. So, I was just saying the other way around. That we have denied our crimes, instead of immediately judging our criminals here. Just like you had this guy arrested now, a few days ago, he beat up some fellow in America, and he should have been arrested right away, and he should have been tried here as soon as he landed. We would then show that we simply want justice to be established, not to extradite our people, because the Constitution does not allow us to do so, but to judge them here. No, now it's a question of which club he's gonna play basketball for, so it doesn't matter, he's gonna beat up an American, bravo masters. Well, that's why it is, that's why we burned on such low branches, because we want to justify our sins, our crimes, our failures, and that's the manner that has demonstrated each other's authority in time. My idea was just the other way around, judging here. I also wrote the law myself, not to speak my whole name, about a special war crimes court in Serbia. You don't have to complain to me. I mentioned it and it's stupid to repeat it again, but I didn't hear any of you, but it was me, because of the loss of innocent civilians in Grdelica, when the train was bombed, that I filed a criminal complaint against Solana and Wesley Clarke, Louise Arbur, prior to Carla del Ponte, the chief prosecutor of The Hague tribunal. Therefore, I have no dilemma about it, and I have no desire to impose patriotism at all. But if you're provoking me, whoever committed the crime in Srebrenica, it's the Hague for him. He needs to answer in front of a terrible court of law. Then here's the bidding -- 3,000, 5,000 or 7,000, like 3,000 isn't scary, so what if it goes to The Hague? It's a tragedy. Well, that's genocide, Srebrenica is genocide, no matter how I don't get into legal formulations and legal qualifications, for that I'm competent, we can talk about it. One more thing, let's have a little reason. We now find the Netherlands a problem to adopt an Association and Stabilisation Agreement. So this parliament needs to adopt a resolution that will in some ways abolize the Dutch battalion, because it is a problem for them, because in serious countries, such things are causing the government to fall. One has already fallen, and they fear the other will fall. Well, the Dutch battalion couldn't do anything. Crimes have been committed, of course, that for the crime and the presence of Mujahedin they had to match Ali Izetbegovic. When I said that to Carly del Ponte, she said: "He was judged by another judge." I've been making noises about Naser Oriæ, fighting a war with Kusner, with Hekerup, with Holkeri, I've got a full copy. I'm just saying that as long as we don't say that for a crime, whoever did it has to answer, best here, in front of our court and in front of our public, we can't go on. If the foundations of our country wherever they are, in Petrov's Village, where the corpses, in Batajnica, are soaked in other people's blood, and we won't admit it, because of this ugly past, it's hard to have a bright future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6279	Mrs. Ragush and Mr. Alexic. I'd really like to ask you to make an effort to get back to the amendments. You know what, of course the subject is more than important, but we're sitting here to finish a specific job after all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6280	When representatives of the ruling majority are here in large numbers, then we will return to the amendments. A lot of things have been said here that need to be clarified because of the people in Serbia. Mr. Batic, a step error is being made in basketball, as I recall from sports. It can only be a lapus lingu or a lapus mint around here. I understand very well what you're talking about, so you can't talk about crime and criminals because they're protected by presummation of innocence until proven guilty. In the period of war... (President: Mrs. Ragush, just say which member did you call? )......................................................................................................... This country has tried for every overrun... at 104. (President: Dignity of the Assembly. ) The dignity of the SRS parliamentary group has been violated, and here is how I try to explain it. So we also advocate the prosecution of all those who need to be accountable for certain crimes and in the first place in front of domestic courts. But it's absolutely not possible because of what we've been talking about for days. As for us, the moment the indictment was filed, a false indictment against Dr. Seselj, he immediately picked himself up, not wanting to burden the state of Serbia and the Serb people, and went to The Hague, to try to defend what was put on him. What the public in Serbia should know, reminders doing, are military courts, Mr Batic, and how they work. This is where the verdicts are made for every excess in the performance of the duty. That's what you should know. But here's what's going on. I made that example the other day. There's a colonel who can't normally celebrate tonight's celebration, his name is Zlatan, and his last name is Mancic. He was sentenced by military courts, the Supreme Court abolished the verdict. Because of that verdict of military courts here in Serbia now, his rank and his right to work have been taken away. Serbia's Supreme Court has annulled both courts' verdicts, thus restoring the rank and right to work, so that it can support its family, Mr Batic. The defence ministry is simply deafening itself for a judicial decision six months afterwards. We're asking a question here, and there's nothing going on about it. It's not a matter for a special court and for a war crimes court, this thing is real for the International Court of Justice. Our citizens, our citizens, while we are already on your ground, justice should be the same for everyone, right? It's not here and it won't be long. This is seen by this budget and by the money that is being detached to eradicate corruption from courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6281	Mr. Boris Aleksic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6282	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising Article 104. Mr. Batic, you mentioned crimes under international criminal law. You forgot to mention the most serious crime. By international law, it's a crime against peace. You mentioned the crime of genocide. The crime of genocide is not the most serious crime in the war. The crime against peace is the most serious crime because it stems from all other crimes, including genocide. So the question is, who committed the crime against peace? Why doesn't anyone mention that crime? Why don't our courts judge this crime? Why isn't the UN tribunal in The Hague on trial for this crime? It calls for the tribunal's rulings in Nuremberg, the military tribunals created after World War II. The backbone of the tribunal's work was just a crime against peace. So we can also interpret the crime against peace based on the 1976 UN General Assembly resolution. A crime against peace is committed not only by the state that committed an armed attack on the territory of another state or the population, but by the one who involved armed gangs, who commits terrorist activities. You mentioned Srebrenica, genocide. What's genocide? Partly or completely destroying some national, racial, religious, ethnic group, completely, partially. So that's where you don't choose. You know that there were no victims of women and children in Srebrenica. General MacKenzie said there was no basis to even talk about genocide that way. Second, you need a genocide specialis, so special imagination, intent. He has to prove himself. So that crime is no joke at all. Whoever performs genocide, he intends to exterminate an ethnic, national, religious or racial group, he kills anything that falls under his hands. He won't let women and children go without focusing on militaryly capable men. There were crimes, but war crimes. You must distinguish between the crimes of genocide and some other crimes. Second of all, there's Bratunac. What was in there? Naser Oric and his crew are killing women and children with a brander. Who was responsible for that? The Hague tribunal released them. He let Haradinaj go, too, and you're talking about our Special Court. In our Special Court, more pictures of Boris Tadic with Karl del Ponte, that's their idol. So where the D.A.'s office is, on the third floor, there are pictures of them with Carla del Ponte. Let's stand for Tadic's picture, stand a picture of some celebrities from Serbia's history, then fine. Let's get back to the peace crime. The crime against peace was committed by those who staged the collapse of Yugoslavia, who introduced their instructors. You know Germany did it. You know who put the guns in? You know that the anti-aircraft system in Slovenia is the Ambrus of German production. You know the Slovenian troops got before the German troops, they only had German special forces, the regular army didn't have it in use. Where did they get that? How did they get that? According to the 1976 UN General Assembly resolution, the introduction of weapons is considered a crime against peace. Will someone be responsible for a peace crime or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6283	The word is Mr. Batic in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6284	I think this debate would take us a long way. So, I don't have time to explain now what a crime against peace is, what the Geneva Conventions on the Protection of War Victims have been, as the ad hoc tribunal of the Nuremberg Court began, through the Tokyo War Crimes Court, through Russell's committee, through the UN tribunal, through the Somalia court, would have taken us far away. It wouldn't be right or fair if I were to have sex with anyone about it now, it's not even. So I don't want to talk about it. This is the Assembly. This is where we address both the MPs and the public. So there's no need here, we're not in court where we have to use absolutely adequate terminology. Don't teach me that, I say it's not equal. It's just not right, because then they'd take too much time. I have no intention of wasting my time. If anyone tries, I don't allude to you, that in any way deny the existence of responsibility and trial for crime, I didn't say criminals, I said about crime, and that amnesty or abolization of criminals, then I have nothing more to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6285	On Article 5, the third amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is not legally possible, as the Budget Law cannot change the name of the budgetary user. You want a word? Here you go, Mr. Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Law, which, on Article 5, divided Chapter 3.11, to say "The Office of the Co-ordination Body of Serbia for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja" replacing the words "Serbian Economic Development Service". For what? Because the entire southern region is an undeveloped region and needs to be helped entirely on the basis of social criteria, not based on national criteria. I believe that you all know very well how many municipalities in Serbia, especially in southern Serbia, are in the same position as Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja, and all because of the highly suspicious, savage privatisations from 2001 to today, which have led local self-government to the situation that almost no company is working today. Prokuplje privatised the Hisar factory, which was a giant in the production of candy and whose products were sold throughout Serbia. The paint metal factory, the only factory of this kind in southern, central, eastern Serbia, which worked in three shifts and produced over 10,000 tonnes annually and exported its products out of the country. The Milan Toplica mineral water factory was also privatized, which was harder to disable than to bring it into the ranks of the world's best water factories. It also privatized the factory of asbestos products Fiaz, Filcara, Glasslara, which led to the layoff of people by some program, which we could call any way but a social programme. Of course, this scenario from Prokuplje is a mirrored scenario from all over Serbia, so today Prokuplje, Kursumlija, Blace, Žitorajja, but that is why Leskovac, Lebane, Vlasotince, Medvedja, Crna Trava, Bojnik, Bosilegrad, Trgovišče, Vladičin Han, Presevo and Bujanovac is characterized by a very high unemployment rate, relatively small average income per capita, underdevelopment, poor investment, and development and professional capacities have as much as you want. So all municipalities in southern Serbia need concrete projects for economic and infrastructure recovery and development, to encourage entrepreneurship, agriculture, development of sport and talent selection. The fact is that sports clubs in southern Serbia have huge problems providing resources for normal work and functioning, with so many talented children and youth. These are the real problems of citizens in these areas, in all municipalities of southern Serbia, and therefore the government's programme, as well as the projected budget rebalancing, should refer to the entire south of Serbia, and not so tendantly to only three municipalities. I understand the fact that the Co-ordination Body for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja was formed in 2001, the service of the co-ordination body in 2006, allegedly in order to solve crises in these municipalities. That is so and we cannot change it, nor do I want to change the name of the budget user, as the Government has explained in the reasons for not accepting this amendment. But I don't understand why Presevo is in a worse situation or, let's say, Bujanovac of Prokuplje, Blac, Merošina, Doljevac, Leban and, when it comes to Jablanic County, Medvedje, for which I don't know on which basis it is classified with Presevo and Bujanovac, except perhaps less than 30% of the population of Medvedje is members of the Albanian national minority. In addition, Medvedja is a municipality located in Jablanic County and visited by the president of the SRS Jablanic District Dr Goran Cvetanovic and the MPs from Leskovac Tomislav Ljubenović and Lidija Dimitrijevic at least once every two weeks. They talk to citizens, they listen to their problems, they want to articulate all this, as much as they can here as opposition MPs. All of these municipalities, the whole south of Serbia is in a catastrophic socio-social situation and in this lies the meaning of my amendment, that we are sick of duplicating any kind and that southern Serbia is an undeveloped region that should be helped in general on the basis of social criteria, according to priorities, and certainly not based on national criteria or political ones, in principle on who is in power. Speaking of government, here in Prokuplje are the members of the yellow company in power. The elementary school "Svetislav Mirković Nenad" in Mali Plana, next to Prokuplje, although in a catastrophic state, until a few days ago, is part of it, which has long since been used for teaching. The second part of the school was torn down five years ago and it started to build, but it was meant for money in a magical way to disappear, so it only came to the ground and only a few walls, and the problem of these children was not solved. In addition, all the time over that building where teaching was performed hangs a huge crane that looks evil and none of the authorities thinks to move. When another crack appeared on the classroom floor, due to the objective danger of wall and ceiling destruction, a meeting of the Parents' Council decided that the teaching was suspended until further notice. And now, of course, these founding students with their parents, every day for ten-fifteen minutes block the highway of Prokuplje - Kursumlija, so that they don't officially meet and get guarantees to continue building this school. That is why it is still not too late to separate the modest resources from this budget rebalancing that is ahead of us and to solve these citizens' problems in the Little Plan, because they really can't send children to a school like this anymore. Whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants active involvement in economic development and the South and all other parts of Serbia or individual when they sit in ministerial chairs think that citizens from all local self-governments from southern Serbia, and Toplico, and Nisavsky, and Jablanic, and the Pcinj County, have equal rights with others, have certain needs, if they already have duties and obligations towards the state and they meet all that neatly. Investments in southern Serbia should be made in all municipalities based on economic and social priorities, without duplication. In addition, all of these undeveloped municipalities of southern Serbia, but also the centre, east, west of Serbia, should receive equal and even funding from the NIP and other development funds, and again according to priorities, without duplication to these and those municipalities. Just imagine that in this economic crisis, where most Serbian citizens live on the edge of existence, the government has reduced the cost of functioning of the prime minister's cabinets and vice presidents in charge of social policy, for economic development, and especially for European integration, which has received nearly 92 million dinars more, but it has no ski resort. The funds were probably distributed by that key. Just out of these increases, if we were to abolish them, there would be enough resources for one development or at least rescheduling project for all of these municipalities that I have mentioned so far during my presentation. But for that, government members and the congregation majority obviously don't have enough hearing. The proposed rebalancing, by not accepting this amendment to the SRS and other amendments to the opposition, deepens the separation of power from the people and suggests a wasteful budget, with an increase in public spending, an external trade deficit, which will reach 13 billion debt by the end of the year, with an external debt of over $30 billion, with inflation that could reach 14% by the end of the year. But the represented growth of the gross social product does not mean anything in itself, but needs to hide the black holes and the negative sides of the proposed budget, and there are many. The foreign trade deficit in 2007 was $10 billion, in 2008 will be $13 billion. It's for every commendation of this government that breaks all the negative records. In 2000, Serbia's external debt was barely something like $10 billion. In 2003 he was 12. It was projected to be 10 and a half in 2010, but at the end of July this year, our country's external debt amounted to about $30 billion. What else is this about? Serbia has seen a huge demand for loans that buy goods of broad consumption, so banks in Serbia, which are mostly foreign, have been in debt with their queens abroad. These foreign funds were used by our population to buy products that are a wave of foreign production. We've funded the foreign economy, not domestic, and the unfortunate thing about it is that it's going to cost us dearly. While government spokesmen want to imagine that the debt per capita is 500 euros and per employee 1,000 euros, we suspect it is much higher. So much for your planned projects. The exchange with undeveloped African states shows how bad the situation is, as the deficit increases from year to year. Corruption in many social spheres, the collection of basic life supplies, which Prime Minister Cvetkovic learns about from the media, a monopoly in the economy by tycoon to close authorities, are all facts that you cannot hide from our citizens. So what there is, and it needs this budget rebalancing, is a balanced social and development component, without duplication of municipalities, which requires an understanding of the essence of the problem of the citizens of the undeveloped municipalities of southern Serbia, but it seems that we cannot expect it from the government. The 2009 budget is already being announced, and I'm asking whether at least that budget will finally be a restrictive budget, which has been announced so many times, but please don't be conjectured by your friends, various IMF experts, because we're going to miss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6287	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, Section 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6288	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to The Hague tribunal and co-operation with The Hague tribunal, I would like to draw your attention, and given the exposure of my predecessor, Mr Batic, I would like to point out the following...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6289	I'm sorry, but it really has nothing to do with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6290	Yes, if you'll just let me point out some facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6291	I can't conclude since you're going back to The Hague. And in Article 5. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008, in Section 3, in function 110, in the economic classification of 463, "Transfers to other levels of government" amounting to 320 million, should be increased to 350, at the expense of reducing the economic classification of 511, "Builts and construction facilities", from the proposed 37.5 million to 7.5 million. It's the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6292	He's tied to this particular area that we've had a lot of trouble with down there, and he's also referring to the work of this parliament, so he's going to be in close contact with this amendment that Mr. Halimi has submitted. I would like to point out, and I did not seek a word earlier when Mr Batic spoke, do not dispute those facts and those measures he was taking as justice minister, but I would point out the following: the UN tribunal's chief indictment raises the UN tribunal against members of Serbian nationality. He selectively applied at that time, and today he applies justice and fact-finding in a selective way. As a rule, the prosecutor puts aside Muslims and Croats, now and Cypriot terrorists, it is also known what Mr Batic confirmed, that against Haradinaj, Agim Ceku and others collected data to be tried before The Hague tribunal or to be tried in our country. But our country has failed to arrest them and to be tried in our country. Unfortunately, I must point out that our claims and beliefs have completely been made that this is the tribunal which is the basis for the Serb trial. In addition to this, the following facts go hand in hand: there is a marked discrimination in bringing charges, both by number and by the functions of the accused; in the SRJ the highest military and political officials are charged only for the reasons that they are Serbs, what they love their country and people and what they wanted to defend independence and sovereignty of the SRJ...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6293	Mr. Jojiæ, allow me, you're breaking... One moment, please, you are in violation of Article 106, paragraph 4, despite the warning of the President of the National Assembly, you are talking about a question that is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6294	Allow me, Article 104, given that some things are directed towards the SRS and that they are misunderstood, I would like to explain them and to clarify them a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6295	That's the Rules of Procedure then, but I don't think we can really talk about this amendment the way you talk. You've absolutely nothing to do with it, find some connection, that it just makes any sense with the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6296	I will report for the next amendment, no problem to be discussed by Mr Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6297	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, section 3, the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is not legally possible, as the Budget Law cannot change the name of the budgetary user. The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the amendment relating to Article 5, section 3, Chapter 3.13, has been proposed to replace the words "The Office of the National Council for Co-operation with the International Tribunal for Criminal Crime of Persons responsible for the serious violations of international humanitarian law committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991" with the words "The Office for Legal and Economic Assistance of the citizens of Serbia who have been indicted by the International Tribunal for the criminal prosecution of persons responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991". The question arises as to why this amendment was submitted, and has been submitted to point to serious violations of the fundamental human rights before the UN tribunal in The Hague. The question is, what are our citizens lagging about? Our citizens pay for an office that actually fully cooperates with the prosecution and fully helps the prosecution. They single out 54m for the government's whim and plus the military and police provide services to the tribunal in The Hague, more specifically to the prosecution. The point of the story is that this violates one of the basic rules and principles in criminal proceedings, which is the equality of weapons. As you know, defenses and charges must be equal, they must rule the same possibilities and have the same rights in order for this trial to be just. Our state unfortunately cooperates in assisting the tribunal's prosecutors in The Hague, neglecting full defence. The government is doing everything possible to help the prosecution, and the defense is not helping in any way possible. It doesn't separate the dinars, it doesn't help in any other way. I will quote one piece of information sent to the MPs, which concerns the National Accession Strategy to the European Union, is made by our government. It is the point of international obligation, of course, to co-operate with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. The following is said: "A little more than 1,650 have been filed so far by the tribunal's prosecutor's office in The Hague. The requirements are processed in a spot-and-time manner, with less than 2 to 3% of the requirements still under way or for which the answer is expected for more than two months." What we can see in this sentence is that it's written by either a man who doesn't rule in Serbian or translated from a foreign language. If translated from a foreign language, it is really scary that Serbia's national EU accession strategy is written by foreigners. The word "prompt" is not used here, it is not said for demands that they are in progress, but that the requirements are being processed, processed or something like that. As we can see, only two to three percent of the prosecution's demands have not been processed. How many defense requests haven't been processed? Over 90%. "The government of the Republic of Serbia has so far freed the keeping of state secrets," it said further in this information, "the official and military secrets of more than 500 military, police and other witnesses. In this area of co-operation, Serbia provides effective assistance to the tribunal's prosecutors in The Hague in finding and taking statements from witnesses and suspects." Is that help being provided defense? It's not available. It is further said: "The total number of indictees transferred to the tribunal from Serbia is 39 people." Next chapter - Legal framework for co-operation. "A deal with the tribunal's prosecutor's office in The Hague on the opening of the prosecutor's office in Belgrade, which gives a very broad circle of authority to the prosecution's representatives regarding access to witnesses and even movement and communication in the territory of the Republic of Serbia." "A very wide circle of authority" is not a precise enough term, no one knows what it means. We know that he must refer to the police, the military and the judiciary. It can't apply to EPS, to NIS, because they don't do that job. So we can best see from these details that indeed the government is doing everything to assist the tribunal's prosecution in The Hague, and it completely ignores any help and opportunity to help defend it. It thus violates the most fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the European Declaration of Human Rights, the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, as well. Here we have the following problem: there is very often a destruction of evidence of defense. I don't know if you know it, and you should all know by heart, the biggest genocide exhibition of the Serbian people, genocide of Serbs 1941, 1945, 1991, 1992, was incinerated in 2003 in the parish home in Vranj, just two weeks after it was included in the proof of defence of Slobodan Milosevic. The author of this exhibition is Bojana Isakovic. The material value of this exhibition was over 300,000 euros, and the immaterial value is invaluable. Can you imagine what would happen if an exhibition in Israel, dedicated to genocide over the Jewish people, burned down? In Serbia today, no one cares when evidence of defence burns, when the biggest genocide exhibition against Serbs in history burns. So that's really scary. When it comes to the tribunal in The Hague, according to some of its representatives, the so-called "Serbs" most often applies to Serbs. The concept of a joint criminal enterprise, as they call it, and we call it a joint criminal enterprise because the prosecutor, according to his intent, has brought those people together who he assumes are guilty of. So, the prosecution's representatives often call the concept "a silver bullet for Serbs". Here, Serbs appear to be some kind of beast that needs to be killed. A joint criminal enterprise is a concept that violates the most fundamental human rights because it introduces the concept of collective criminal responsibility, not individual criminal responsibilities, but collective criminal responsibilities. If it doesn't turn out that's all I'm saying, I'll tell you next, because he's got three categories. The third category, as well as the concept of collective criminal responsibility, is discussed by professors from the United States, Allen Dershovic, professor at Harvard, Jenny Martinez, professor at Stanford University, William Shabas, who comes from the University of Dublin and the University of New York. - With what, Professor? William Shabas is a supporter of international justice and these immediate tribunals, but even he criticises the third category of a joint criminal enterprise, since it is a abbreviations in English JCE, i.e. Joint criminal entertainment, he calls that concept just convict everyone. So you just convict anyone. Based on this concept, it exists in charges against all Serbs, i.e. political and military officials, any Serb can answer for what the Serb forces have done. What are Serb forces after the UN tribunal in The Hague? These are all Serbs under uniform, even background units, sanitary units etc. So, a man who's supposed to be in a joint criminal enterprise could be responsible for something that some other man who he was in conflict with could have done. And that's what's happening. I would also remind you that the UN Charter was formed in The Hague, that it was formed at the time of the unilateral world, when Russia was on its knees, that according to the UN Security Council, it has the right to establish auxiliary bodies, committees, commissions and special affairs rapporteurs and has the right to act on the basis of Chapter 7 - the maintenance of peace and security. The court is not founded to establish peace and security, but to establish individual criminal responsibility. Even if it was founded to establish peace, peace was established by the 95-year Dayton Peace Agreement. So the question arises why does the tribunal still exist in The Hague? There's no basis for him to exist. So once again I appeal to you to do everything in our power to, at least as much as the prosecution helps, help and defense. If we don't, look at our Constitution, look at the head -- human and minority rights, you'll see there that the charge and the defense must have equal rights. If they don't, you don't have a fair trial, the most basic norms are broken about fair and fair trial, so I ask you to pay attention in the coming period and to the defense and to protect our citizens who are indicted before the tribunal in The Hague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6299	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. The parliamentary group has 5.30 minutes at their disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6300	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, surely this amendment, submitted by counterpart Boris Aleksic, is acceptable and should be accepted as such by this parliament. I would have continued where I just started some of my presentations, but I gave up the discussion, since this is related matter - The Hague Tribunal, co-operation, the office, etc. The relationship of the The Hague tribunal towards Croats and Muslims is not as it was for citizens of Serbian nationality. No one from Croatia's top leadership and the Muslim-Croatian Federation has been charged with issuing orders to commit crimes, probably only because at the time of the crackdown of the SFRY, or later, they were with the enemies of the Serb people: America and the Central Intelligence Service of the NATO Pact. When it comes to genocide, I will remind you of what genocide is and whether genocide and crimes are equally qualified and equally tried. I would like to point out only one example: the rape of Serbs in the camp of Celebic by Muslims has qualified the prosecutor as a violation of the customs of war, not rape, which otherwise does when the alleged perpetrator is a Serb, accusing him of crimes against humanity. The prosecutor's actions have been present since the very beginning of the tribunal. Thus, out of the first 18 indictments brought against suspects of alleged crimes from former SFRY, 17 indictments referred to Serbs, and only one referring to Muslims. The relations of the UN tribunal to the SRJ are well known to us, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as well as to our general public. I remind you that in the history of every nation and state of Serbs, many times the most difficult trials were faced. More than once, the Serb people and the survival of the Serbian state were threatened, although they had never waged conquest wars, but had always defended themselves from a far stronger enemy. The Serbian people have always managed to defend their national identity, freedom and sovereignty. By putting up with huge sacrifices in both world wars, we have fought the conquerors and world executioners, some of whom today participate in financing this dirty war against Serbia, and earlier against the SRJ. I'm saying that a number of criminal charges have been filed, or 14 have been covered, by Bill Clinton, Tony Blair, Gerhard Schrader, Shirak, Javier Solana, Wesley Clark, Madeline Albright, Iberde Vedrin, Joseph Fisher, Robin Cook, George Robertson, Rudolph Sharping and others. What did they do? What did NATO do and what did the Allies do? They used NATO for their aggression and occupation of the work of the SRJ, and second, they killed and inflicted serious physical injuries and destruction and suffering on the unprotected population of the entire SRJ then. They planned, announced and carried out attacks in order to kill SRJ President Slobodan Milosevic, but they killed him when they took him to The Hague. Planned, announced and carried out attacks in order to kill other citizens, destroyed and damaged economic and social and cultural, diplomatic and religious institutions in the territory of the entire Yugoslavia. They bombed and destroyed the facilities necessary for the lives of the people of Yugoslavia, used poored uranium and cluster bombs and other forbidden weapons and severely endangered the lives and environment of our citizens. They destroyed the UN's peacekeeping role, as well as peace and stability in the Balkans. They were thus fulfilling their intention to establish a long-term military occupation of the strategic parts of Yugoslavia with the help of the NATO Pact. Ladies and gentlemen, is that genocide? To remind you, I have a little time, Madam Chairman, I apologize, to remind the public again and the MPs who may not have understood or heard what I said. I would like to point out only one example: the rape of Serbs in the camp of Celebic by Muslims has qualified the prosecutor as a violation of the customs of war, not as a rape, which otherwise does when the alleged perpetrator of the Serb is accusing him of crimes against humanity. That's justice for you, and that's why there's no justice in The Hague. That is why our state should not have co-operated with The Hague tribunal. Mr Batic left as a member of the government and he signed to deliver and arrest Slobodan Milosevic. On the other hand, false charges against Dr Vojislav Seselj have been filed in Belgrade. Dr Vojislav Seselj defends himself successfully in the UN tribunal. He's the one he's against who's got the hook and the hoax to prove that he allegedly committed some kind of crime. He didn't commit any crimes, let alone a crime. In response to the verbal delinquency, the president of the Third Search Council tells one witness and prosecutor, so it is normal when Mr. Seselj did so, because it is normal in a political campaign to discuss and point to certain problems in one country. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia is at risk, Serbia has been occupied, but I hope new forces are coming to Serbia, that Serbia will one day be a free state, guaranteed by Serbian radicals Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6301	The word has an MP named Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6302	Respected for the remaining presidency, honourable fellow MPs who are still in the O.R., Madam Minister, Article 104. I wanted to ask you, Madam Chairman, as well as the head of the DS Parliament Club, why this? Now I'm going to explain to you why this question. We've been here since 10:00 this morning. I know we're in a hurry. I'm asking you, what's the point? We have a minister here who will testify that what I'm saying is true, but I quote her. The 2009 draft budget was supposed to be in the government tomorrow. The Minister said it won't be tomorrow, it'll be 20 days. Then we'll get back to the situation where some of the media are attacking the opposition to obstruct the work of the Assembly. The government is the one who's late with the laws, the government is the one who's irresponsible. We're getting into a situation where at five to nine, there's a bid on how many more amendments we need to pass today to make it a quota. Everything. What do you think, we won't last, MPs? But what's that for? Hope of Kolundji: To get there. Where do we go, Mrs. Nado? Because you're late for your rebalancing at the Assembly, because you put it on the agenda too late. The draft bill in the budget, as well as last year, will also be late. I'm just calling you, come on, you could have made an appointment tomorrow to work on Saturdays. There are sitting people who and everyone here you look at in the opposition hall at least participated today in the debate several times. They really care about crossing all the amendments. We're sitting here all night until three o'clock in the morning to get through, and I really don't think it's right and it's losing its sense. Please use your authority, talk to the government and have them send the laws in time. They're late for delivery to the Assembly, and then after that, you're accusing the opposition MPs of obstructing their work. I don't think that's correct, at the very least. All right, we'll sit there as long as we need to. We want to explain our amendments. We see in some cases that there is a government's goodwill to accept some amendment. We will try to convince both the minister and the rest of the government to accept some of the amendments they have submitted, above all, mostly the MPs of the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6303	There's no breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. The calendar of the Budgetary System Act is prescribed for the Government, and the calendar and deadlines for the Assembly are prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. The dates are different. I agree with the remark that the government is asked whether it is late and why it is late. But it's not part of the course of this session and the calendar of the Law on the Budgetary System for the Government is for the Government, not the Assembly. There's no breach of Article 104. The decision to extend time was made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, section 5, the amendment was submitted by the MP Judita Popovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 2(2) point 1. One and six. Budgetary system law. The word is Judith Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6304	Madam Chairman, the Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was very interesting to monitor these discussions on the amendments tabled by the opposition MPs. It was interesting to see the stoicism and peace of MPs of the ruling coalition. I couldn't figure out what kind of peace it was, whether it was some kind of peace, passive approval of those amendments that were heard here, or whether it was just an ordinary presence of something that was otherwise considered absolutely unnecessary and useless. There were many amendments that were rational, which were very well explained and which were very nicely rejected by the authorised promoter. These amendments were, above all, invested for this reason to change something in the whole concept of budget, including this rebalancing that was proposed. It implements through all these amendments that the budget rebalance itself is very cost-effective and that public spending jumps back to some limits that will be almost impossible to withstand by citizens. All these budget rebalancings eventually break down about people who work, earn, pay taxes and fill that budget. The amendment I made before the Liberal Democratic Party clearly points to the fact that this rebalancing requires nothing more than asking – give more money. It's just that, simply Serbianly speaking, I'm absolutely not interested in anything but money. How else to interpret the proposal of the legislator to implement the rebalancing in terms of the addition of funds to the administrative court and to the appeals courts. We know very well that we currently have no administrative court or appeals courts, that the Government and the Assembly have not made certain decisions on the basis of which these courts would function. As things stand, for the next two months neither the Government nor the Assembly will make those decisions, so we really don't see why they would then increase the funds for the administrative court and the appeals courts; undermining, these courts are not in office. The amendment proposed how we could use those resources. First of all, as simple as the administrative court is concerned, there's no reason to fund it, because it doesn't exist. Therefore, the proposal for administrative court should be deleted. As far as appeals courts are concerned, we are aware that this building in Germany should be reconstructed, that something is being renovated, so we would agree that one part of the funds should be directed towards that purpose. However, as for the cost of earning employees, the cost of social contributions, for these famous contract services, we find it absolutely unnecessary to allocate funds in advance, as I note, there are no appeals courts. So you can be surprised as much as you want, Madam Parliament, it's your right, and it's my right to explain the amendment I filed on behalf of the LDP. I'm usually not that impatient, and I don't like to communicate with MPs in any way that they react to my exposure, but it's just that this whole approach to these amendments that have been heard today and that will still be heard until I don't know how many hours tonight and in the past days. Because I believe that in this assembly, above all, that the interest of the state is important, and if it is of national interest, then I guess we should work together to find common results in a way that reduces costs and achieve common goals in improving that community. We read in the paper that this budget rebalance is actually a compromise, a compromise solution. I am sorry if the compromise was done to harm the citizens, because it is likely that a compromise was made between the two sides at the expense of the third party. That is why it is interesting to see how the coalition in power reacts and which absolutely did not find it appropriate for any amendment, any political party, to come out and say some of its arguments as to why, because I assume you support this bill of rebalancing, that the proposed amendment is contrary to the law, contrary to the right of the proposer, contrary to logic, with the economic and other interests of this community. We believe that this amendment, if nothing else, is rational and is aimed at the interests of the citizens, and I think we are here for the citizens. It may sound demagogue, but the fact that we're going to go deep into the night, and we started at 10.00 hours, we're doing it, which means when it's already dropping the concentration, when people are tired, when they can't even follow their thoughts anymore, let alone the thoughts of the one who's putting up with it, I think that's the problem, because it should be a little more serious to access budget rebalancing. And we have seen that this bill is very problematic, with very many items, which will further increase public spending, and nothing else is more devastating for this country than the rise in public spending. We know that the financial crisis in the world, we know that it has arrived at our place, no matter how much it is amortised by people in power, we know that it will leave the consequences for our economy, and in such conditions we predict the growth of public spending. I think it's extremely irresponsible. To finish, I suggest that this amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6305	Anyone else want a word? The People's Messenger of Nada Kolundzija, then the Messenger of the people, Žutić, and Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6306	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, you must understand that the position of the majority is that, between the argument, it is mostly the opposition which is submitted by the amendment and the argument of the government, the ruling coalition takes its stand on the basis of those arguments that assure it of the correctness of the decision to be made. It is not because we are ignoring the amendments or that we are undermining the opposition MPs' efforts to influence the proposed budget rebalancing, but what defines our position, and I do not think there is a need to express ourselves to some extent offensively in relation to the parliamentary majority's position, is the fact that in some cases we define ourselves to argue with the opposition, and by supporting that argument we are looking for in talks with the Government's representatives ways to accept such amendments, but unfortunately in most cases, the government's argumentation for us is strong enough for us to define ourselves not to accept any amendment. And I repeat again, the fact that we do not compromise with opposition representatives is not because we are ignoring the opposition's efforts to make amendments. I would simply pray that in our mutual relationships we do not create an atmosphere that we do not want to produce or produce. As for the opposition's dissatisfaction with the number of amendments accepted, you must understand that the budget is one very specific act that is brought into line in the government of the Republic of Serbia, that the space for interventions on the budget is always small. And just to remind you, this is not about you, of course, but about those MPs who were the ruling majority, and now they object that the government is insensitive to the argument of opposition MPs and does not accept amendments, that this previous government of a hundred and a few amendments has accepted four amendments, of which were two Governments. So, simply, we want to be very correct. Where we think there's room to support the opposition's proposals, we're really doing it with full confidence that the argument is right and that it's possible to accept. Because this is also about whether something is possible or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6307	The People's MP, Žutić. I've seen it, MP. The People's MP Spasojevic and MP Žutić came forward. You'll all get your word. He was called before you raised the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6308	Dear MPs, the newly-soldish cantator would sing "Who has you, he doesn't have you" about these virtual budget costs. For non-existent judicial institutions, you could sing "Whoever's gone, he's got you"? There are no administrative courts and appeals courts, but money is required for these institutions, for employees' salaries, social benefits and other contributions. I have spoken several times in the Assembly about the anti-constitutional situation in the judiciary, about the non-existent network of courts in Serbia that are scheduled or unpredicted by the Constitution and the 2001 Law on Courts. The law and the Constitution go to that people's "Who in the Kle, who in the record." I don't understand why you who have been acting in power for eight years have not passed European, judicial laws. Let's start with the 2006 Serbian Constitution. In Article 143 which speaks of types of courts, it was pointed out that the judicial authority in the Republic of Serbia belongs to courts of general and special jurisdiction, without emphasising the names of those courts. Namely, only the Supreme Cassation Court stands out as the highest court in the Republic of Serbia. Why was it so stingy in words because I don't get it because it's just a couple of names of courts? The provisions of the Constitution on courts are unarranged, modest and the worst are they day and day, after two years, to a good degree legally transparent. Namely, the formation of the Supreme Cassation Court is prescribed. As far as I know today, there is only the Supreme Court of Serbia who, by force of opportunity, since there is no second degree judicial distance, there is no court of appeal, performs a judicial and nulliful function of judgment. As a result, Serbia's Supreme Court is normally covered with a number of pending cases. Therefore, according to the Constitution, the formation of district and appeals courts and administrative courts is not particularly apostrophe. The 2001 Law on Courts has dropped much more respect for the traditional state-law history of the Kingdom of Serbia and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, as it states the need to establish district appeals courts, administrative courts and the Supreme Court of Serbia. The 2001 Law on Courts does not mention the Supreme Cassation Court at all, and why, if there is an appeal court as supreme judicial authority. It meets and needs the necessary, necessary degree of trial, as a democratic flow of European legal modernism. So, in my opinion, Serbia should fully preserve its rich judicial tradition by safeguarding judicial institutions that were founded more than 160 years ago. To remind you, the Supreme Court was founded in 1846. In 1855, he changed his name to the Supreme Cassation Court. Since the legal experts at the time, the law writers, found that it was a bit of a rogue name, in 1858 the Law on the Cassation Court, which acted as a third-degree court office, was reproduced. Therefore, the name of the Supreme was too high, since the Supreme Court was held by an appeal court, which was established in the far 1840s. Serbia had a normal administrative court, which was also established in 1840. All those courts were in operation until 1945, when they were abolished by Yugoslav communist authorities. It is known that the Court of Appeal was suspended somewhere in September 1945. The state council was also abolished that year and administrative courts were formed instead. The cassation court was suspended, and instead the Serbian Supreme Court was formed as a second-degree judicial distance. Therefore, the Kingdom of Serbia and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia's liquids have disappeared on the three-step trial. Unfortunately, so was the post-broz Milosevic era, but also in today's five-eyed democracy. So de jure is scheduled to restore the court's Serbian tradition, but de facto we still have a non-democratic two-degree trial system without a full court network. The law therefore provides for the establishment of appeals courts and administrative courts, but these courts, as I said, simply do not exist. But government budgets don't mind, they're just unreasonablely looking for money for non-existent virtual courts. The creators of this additional budget do not refer at all to Mrs Judite Popovic's LDP amendment, but they do not accept this amendment, although the amendment highlights that the money is set for non-existent courts. In the end, counterpart Judita Popovic logically suggests that money is intended for non-existent appeals courts and administrative courts for expenditure related to the establishment of future appeals courts. True, in the light of the amendments, the Government points out, and I quote -- the possibility of carrying out appraisals to create conditions for the start of the work of these courts. The bill should therefore state that the funds for the establishment of new courts are sought, rather than the demand for money for employees' salaries, contributions and others, since there are no employees. So this is one pure virtual category. In the end, therefore, I am for the restoration of Serbia's judicial tradition, the renewal of appeals courts, the administrative court. To remind me of the 1858 Law of the Assembly, which we celebrate as a jubilee these days. It is interesting that in this law, the first paragraph says - The Assembly of Peoples consists of Members of Parliament, President of Cassation Court, two presidents of appeals courts, etc. So, representatives of high-ranking Serbian courts attended the assembly at the time. Unfortunately, such courts today do not exist at all. Finally, an intervention related to congregation life. We have already celebrated the 150th anniversary of the first law on 28 October 2008. The assembly law was really dated on 28 October 1858, however, it was dated to an old Julian calendar. So, the real date for promoting the first law on the assembly is November 9th on the Gregorian calendar. So we should celebrate that day on 9 November. Okay, we celebrated it once, we had a good cocktail, now we have a chance for another cocktail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6309	MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the New Serbia parliamentary group supports the amendment submitted by Mrs Judita Popovic. The amendment is extremely correct. It's unacceptable to give money for something that doesn't exist at all. Administrative courts do not exist, appeals courts do not exist and there is an unacceptable reason why these institutions that have not been formed at all can provide for funds. It's clear to me now, Madam Minister, why you might have been against the rebalancing, because when someone like this serves you, then it's absolutely clear to me that you might have been right. The funds provided for here can also be used for sport, can be used for many other things, but above all I think the funds should have been directed to regular courts. Court employees' salaries are extremely low, I mean medium professional training. These people need help, they should be adequately rewarded for the hard work they're doing. If you didn't want it here, you can see that in Požega in elementary school, a roof falls on the head of children who are learning. The kids won't go to school out of fear of getting killed there, because we saw a few days ago that one of the kids got extremely hurt. So, put this money anywhere you want, but you can't do something imaginary, something you don't exist to support. So, it's an excellent amendment and I think this amendment should have been accepted by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6311	National MP Zoran Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6312	Dear Members of Parliament, I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 100(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I'd like to ask Mrs. Chairman to explain to me why you didn't give me your word right after that member. Your conduct is well known when you chair this assembly, that you are in constant confrontation with all MPs of the opposition. It just irritates you when someone comes out for this pay phone. I suppose you have a need to participate in that discussion, but that position does not allow you to do so. I am taking the opportunity to invite you, like the head of the DS parliamentary group, to come out and say a little more populist and demagogue flossules when it comes to this budget rebalance, but also the policy this country is leading. Don't hesitate, Mrs. Comic, come out, we'll kill every argument you make because you actually have no arguments. This isn't about budget rebalancing, it's about trying to make a lot of pre-election promises you made, but each party individually in this coalition, trying to sort something out, on the one hand, and on the other hand to hide that everything you said in the campaign, in fact, and the only real word is -- you lied to the citizens of Serbia. I hear it from the Ouuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu. You do not warn your colleagues, and you are very zealous when one of the opposition MPs also comments on the populist demagogue floss of the authorities' representatives, then you warn them. You're just not worthy of that place. You're a woman who wants to be in conflict. You are a representative of a party that sees Europe as an ideology. You're a person and you represent a party that lives in virtual reality, which doesn't respect the economic and financial crisis that surrounds you, which doesn't respect reality, that you couldn't promise citizens and 70% of the average income, on the one hand, investments in next year, which I don't know what will be, 1,000 euros of free shares based on free shares and a lot more. Now you need to cover it up. The voter's time has passed. You've done this skillfully. I congratulate you on that, but it's time to face the truth. My job as an opposition MP is to introduce you to that truth because you run away from that truth. You tricked the citizens. You promised them everything and everything, and now you, frustrated about it, are trying to treat it on examples of opposition MPs coming out here. It's offensive that you just went out for two reasons: because you've been silent all day, because there are not even 20 MPs in this room. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6313	There's no damage to article 100. So in your presentation, you called for the injured member to be Article 100(1). Those injuries are gone, because you've been told to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and you haven't explained that the injury was done. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6314	Madam Chairman, Article 100(1). To the MP who wants to talk about the breach of this Rules of Procedure, the president of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. Who was the previous speaker? Mrs. Hope Kolundji. What does the Rules of Procedure say? Who should you give a word to? And who did you give the word to? So the whole story was created when LDP asked you and the ruling majority -- what's all this? That's what the head of the DS parliamentary group went to teach opposition MPs. Based on what? Do you think we should praise this budget rebalance? A series of arguments... Mr. Milivoevich, is there anything you want to say? Would you like to warn him, Madam Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6315	I ask the MPs not to have a dialogue. Tossing out of place and addressing MPs from a pay phone is the basis for a warning. Please don't make that basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6316	Why don't you give him a warning? It is obvious that Ambassador Milivojevic is throwing himself out of the bench. A series of arguments have been presented as to what kind of budget rebalance is, a series of reasons where a kind of policy that is a false policy has been fully exposed. You expect us to keep quiet? We don't want to keep our mouths shut. Give us a lecture. You're making arguments why the government doesn't accept the amendment. We have shown you a hundred examples so far, and where a better example will be, if two average annual salaries in Serbia are spent on the travels of one segment of the government by one member of the General Secretariat of the Government. You're allowed to look someone in the eye after such a thing? Congratulations on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6317	There is no breach of article 100, as MPs receive word in a row as they appear, at the same time five or six MPs were reported when the word was already given to MP Nikola Žutic. I ask you to remember in your address that the president of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia is called Hope of the Kolundji and that you address it with the function it has. National MP Zoran Nikolic throws - what movie am I in? I am not in the film, but at the meeting of the National Assembly, where you, in your presentation, MP Zorana Nikolic, said - the head of the DS parliamentary group, and MP Milan Dimitrijevic reiterated. I just want to remind you that Hope Kolundji's People's Parliament is the president of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia. It's the course of the session. He has a word because he wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, MP Arsen Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6318	It's infringed. It's a 100-year-old. The Rules of Procedure, the first position clearly reads: "To a national MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker". The previous speaker was Mrs. Hope Kolundji, and it is not said here that the words are given to those who were called, as you said, but immediately after the presentation of the previous MP. You didn't do it, you violated Article 100 of the Rules of Procedure and don't repeat it, as you repeated when my predecessors came out, that it wasn't broken, because it was broken. When I'm done, I assume you'll give the same explanation. I'm not going to be happy with that argument and I'm asking you to vote on it in the voting day. According to the Rules of Procedure, I answered why Mrs. Nada Kolundzija violated the dignity of the National Assembly under Article 104. Mrs. Kolundjia, if the government has its own argument, then it's written in some meaningful arguments why no amendment has been accepted and no nonsense is written. You could have written that it was not in line with the government's economic policy. You could have written that you had to keep pre-election promises to your coalition partners, not to write some things that budget users did not express interest in additional funding from the budget, and the ministry itself said there were various concessions, that the ministries were reducing their budget-planned funds because there were not enough funds to keep all these promises. There could have been some overexplanations, not some insubstantial explanations that you made in your argument not to accept amendments proposed by the opposition MPs. You say there that the Ministry of Environment did not ask for additional funds, and they were cut in half from the 2008 budget. The funds for the lending of agricultural production were planned by a budget of three billion, the budget rebalance planned for 650 million, funds for the National Investment Plan have been halved in almost all ministries, and you are screaming in reasons that they have not expressed the need for additional funding. This is not about additional funds, but rather about the funds being significantly reduced compared to the 2008 budget. We have tried to correct our amendments because we think it is important for farmers to get loans, short-term and long-term, to realise the National Investment Plan's projects, to remain at the level of environmental protection. You don't accept any lame explanations. I'm asking you to write down why you don't accept those amendments, not write some ridiculous explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6319	People's MP, there's no damage to article 100. You get word on your application and you talk about a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and there is no violation of Article 104, no violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. If you gain insight into the stenogram of Nada Kolundjia's statement, which you claim to have violated dignity, you will see that there is no injury, that it has in any way endangered her, she would be warned not to do so, she would be warned. The word has been made by MP Miroslav Petkovic, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6320	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating the violation of members of 100th and Article 104th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I will not deliberately quote these members, because I think all citizens of Serbia who are following the transfer of the Assembly know well what it says, unlike the president, or Vice-President of Mrs Gordana Comic's Assembly. I think it's a shame that after all the years you've spent in this room, you don't know what people's MPs are called. Djuric, a colleague, is a national MP for five years. You called me Alexander Petkovic yesterday, I didn't want to react, I count it as a lapus, but you have a list of MPs, you have photos, if you find it hard to read, then I can call you Gorica or I don't know how. But not to go into those details. We're being resented here because we want to work all night. It's not a dispute. We can work until morning, and that's our job, and that's what we're paid for, and tonight and tonight, like every day, we want to earn every penny of our salary and thus justify to the citizens of Serbia why we are so paid and why we do so much. The opposition submitted 84 amendments to the draft amending and supplementing the Budget Law. It's obvious that tonight someone has set a quota that needs to be crossed and we hear it's about 50 amendments. We're ready to work. We're in no hurry, we can work in the morning, if the quota is to be met and that's not disputed. The president of the ZES parliamentary group, Mrs Nada Kolundzija, if I have expressed myself well as you have said, so where is it for you for European Serbia? I see only the MPs of the DS and two MPs of the SPS. Where's the rest of your coalition? So we ask where the MPs are, there are more cards inserted than there are here. You've gathered before the end. Have him check the technical services, it doesn't matter, but that's why your colleague came to you with the words of the head of the DS parliamentary group, because there's no rest of your coalition. What offends dignity and offends the intelligence of the MPs and citizens of Serbia who watch tonight's transmissions are the arguments given by the government on our amendments. There we had the opportunity to see a call to the 1992 UN protocols on the creation and renovation of some buildings in Germany 9. That really doesn't make sense. The colleagues of the NS have somehow managed to convince you that this is the explanation you have given, because you refused their amendment, completely pointless, and you finally accepted it. I think there's room for you to accept another of our amendments by dawn Monday, Tuesday. What's the fact is you're breaking the Constitution. Take a look at this, Madam Vice-President, at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia site, where it clearly states that an extraordinary vote ended in October, if I am not mistaken on 7 October 2008. You're breaking the law, it's 21.37, and by midnight we expect a budget proposal for 2009. Today's the last date. I don't care what whoever made the statement, if it will come by November 20th, that it will be adopted by December 15th, we will ask on Monday where the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget is. We want to work on it first. We want to have enough time to prepare ourselves, to submit perhaps the same number of amendments, perhaps higher, but all in the interest of the citizens of Serbia because, through the functioning of this country, we are spending their money. The Committee for the Making of a new Rules of Procedure is ready. We'll try to define everything in the new rules of procedure, from word to word...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6321	Time, three minutes 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6322	I apologize for defining everything from word to word so there would be no misunderstanding. The Minister mentioned here in the opening presentation of the effects of the mirror. I would only like for you and the head of the ZES Parliament Club to suggest that the effect of the mirrors be tried in the morning when they wake up, when they wash themselves to stand in front of the mirror and see if they lie to the citizens of Serbia or lie to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6323	Four minutes, MP. You know that the exaggeration of the time prescribed by the Rules of Procedure is also the basis for giving notice, please, MP Zoran Nikolic throws away - give a warning when I consider it to be a basis for doing so, because that is what the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly obliges me to do, in respect of the rules. You mentioned again that I was the wrong name, giving a word to the MP Arsen Đurić, and I have read and apologized to the MP Arsen Đurić. If you don't think that's enough once, I'll do it another time. The name was read from the list, the slip was unintentioned, accidental and deserved an apology. No injuries, no members of 100, no members of 104. With a stenogram of the address of the People's Post-President of the ZES Group, you will see that she did not say anything in addressing the MPs, which would offend the dignity of the National Assembly. No injuries. Do you want to be hurt by your voice? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Maras, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6324	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Member 104. I tried to be constructive really, to suggest that somehow we bring this to an end, in a way that we don't bring absurdity to the work of the Assembly, but what I've heard is that everyone is doing their job, and even Government is doing their job, I have to say that's not true. We've been listening for months to the opposition obstruct the work of the Assembly. There's a budget calendar. Everyone sitting in this room knows, who were MPs, before the 2008 budget was passed, that the budget was delayed. We got it on Friday, to remind you, a debate began Monday. How can MPs be prepared if they get a budget this thick on Friday afternoon, not this one is budget rebalance, I speak 2008 budget. We'll get it again on Friday, so Monday we'll have to submit the amendments over the weekend to read. You know how small it is, and so on, that I don't bother the citizens right now, but the point is that you're putting us in a situation where our hands are tied, that we have a terrible little time to discuss something, and now we're in a hurry, we're going to get weary. So, who's going to hold out longer, whether you guys were planning on going to the 50th amendment today, and then you changed your mind, because you saw that there were few MPs of the opposition, so let's try and get it all over with this night or the morning that's coming. I'm just saying that we see the same thing here all the time and that the same thing is happening. The government delivers late. It's the government that's making a big problem for the Assembly. The fact that opposition MPs appear in the Rules of Procedure, there is a business possibility. Change the Rules of Procedure, ban it, and that's it, if you think that's the solution. Obstruction is much greater than those who provide us with laws and by those who force us to work until this night's unconscious and tomorrow morning to complete all amendments, amendments that you will certainly reject. This amendment, submitted by Mrs Judita Popovic, find a solution to adopt the amendment. What courts are you talking about, what means of pay? There's no buildings, there's nothing. What are you talking about? I'll read later, when I report for that amendment, what funds are defined for salaries and other expenses. I understand you're building a building, you've got funds for the building. Reroute that, say, to the Corruption Council. When will the agency come back to life? This country is full of corruption. Take another look, look, this is such a meaningful amendment. What do you think, that the MPs of the SRS, the DSS and the NS love LDP, so they support the amendment? They support it because it's common sense. There is no basis for renunciating the amendment. So find a solution and accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6325	There's no breach of Article 104, especially you didn't say who caused the injury. I suppose it was meant to present Hope Kolundjia's national message. Once again, let me remind you that you can see from your insight into the stenogram of her address that no injuries were made on the basis of Article 104. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic, wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1), so the MP of the people, Miroslav Markicevic, and the MP of the people Dragan Šormaz, and the MP of the people Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6326	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with Article 104. This member was injured by his presentation of the "For European Serbia" parliamentary group, Mrs Nada Kolundzija, as well as the chairman-in-Office of the Parliament of the People's Council, Gordana Comic. How I've experienced all of this happening right now, because I can't tell you what session this is, or the rest of it. Here's the thing. It's completely inconsistencies with what you're saying and what's written here. What you're saying with what you're doing is particularly inconsistencies. As far as I can see, and that is confirmed by the other MPs, there are two kinds of MPs here, and they are divided into those opposition ones, who are necessarily not smart enough, because no amendment that they have written, on several occasions and in several laws, has ever been adopted, they are inconclusive because their amendments are not adopted, they are unrequited because they are obstructed by their own exposure and they are rude because they seek their rights and because they know them very well. On the other hand, we have those who are messengers of power, they are necessarily raised, sitting still, silent, clapping. They're very smart, because there's no need to prove it by writing amendments or things like that, and they're necessarily well-intentioned. With their inactions, they have a very good influence on the work of the government. When the first ones look for the word of the opposition, we don't see them. Although, I'm a long way from sitting, but I, who's short-sighted from here, see a colleague sitting next to me, so it's just weird for me not to see us. They have to see someone else when we get back, they don't give us a word when we have the Rules of Procedure. Why did I react to what Mrs. Head of the ZES Group Mrs. Hope Kolundji said? When the opposition writes amendments, they must not have the necessary argument to be accepted, although they are so meaningful, even though they are so normal, even though they are so lifelike that it is simply a miracle that no one accepts them. On the other hand, the only thing that really doesn't really have the right argument is the arguments written by the government for not accepting our amendments. If we were to read that, and they should start reading MPs who come out here next, it really can't be called an argument. That's what it says for writing. That is why it is a violation of dignity and of the assembly and MPs. We didn't come here to outplay and outwit ourselves. We're all working together on the good of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6327	There's no breach of Article 104. (Milica Vojic-Markovic, from the post: I demand votes. ( ) Since a violation of dignity cannot be done by writing an explanation, the argument may be that it is not in line with some of the members of the Rules of Procedure, but it cannot be a reason for a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. Once again, I will ask you to take another look at the stenogram of the National Parliament of Hope Kolundjia to see that no word has been spoken that would demean the National Assembly and any MP of the people. If it had been done, she would have been truly warned. The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Markicevic, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6328	Dear Vice Presidents, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, on behalf of someone else who should have done it already, we apologize on behalf of everyone who needs to listen and watch. After the resignation of the presidents of the ZES parliamentary group and as the MPs of the opposition who really tried to make constructive amendments, and of all these amendments, one was accepted, to experience something like this that I consider for a moment by losing the patience of Mrs Kolundjia. Mrs. Kolundjia, I must remind you that the president of New Serbia and the head of the New Serbia parliamentary group asked you to work until 6:00 today as people, so if we should work on Sunday, Someone here wants to show that our customs, our faith, our sacred church, which is very important to us from the NS, wants to belittle. Folkly speaking, you asked for -- look. We are ready to work until morning and defend our amendments. We've been hurt all day by government reasons. If we're looking for money for children, the same explanation from word to word that refuses the amendment. Is it possible, if asked for school, for education, for children or for pensioners, that the same way the amendment was rejected? We sit here patiently listening all day, trying to change the course of the session, to change this budget rebalancing, in a way, for the benefit of the citizens, and to experience that after 12 hours of working here someone criticizes and demeans us. Do we, then, as MPs of the opposition even have the right to submit an amendment? So once again, I want to apologize to the citizens, to all the guests and to all the hosts who celebrate the glory of St. Luke, if they can't watch this. I'm so bitter. Please as your own sister, don't do this again. If we're ready to sit here all night and work, be patient, too. You asked for work, don't criticize the opposition's MPs if they're discussing it. They change the defenses in the way they know best. This came after the presentation of counterpart Judith Popovic of the LDP. So it's not from New Serbia. I don't speak party here. She defended her amendment very correctly and was then called, and after that, all the other MPs from the opposition felt called that we were making obstructions here, that we were just talking like that. That's not true. We've submitted the amendments to the best of intentions. Mrs. Kolundjia, I agreed today to pass the amendment I made here, that I had made a mistake, just so he could pass. I didn't do anything wrong, and neither was the NS parliamentary group. It was more important to me that money that would be directed to those citizens for whom I fought. You know that well. After ten hours of work, to experience such a qualification of the work of opposition MPs, that's a little too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6329	There is no violation of Article 104, but it is very obvious from the comments and reactions of the MPs that there has been a major misunderstanding, and I am ordering the service to do a stenogram of the National Parliament of Hope Kolundzija, the president of the ZES parliamentary group and that a stenogram of its presentation, which she had right after the National Parliament of Judita Popovic, delivers to all the MPs present in the hall. I will also ask national MP Nada Kolundji that, when a stenogram is delivered, if the MPs want to read their presentation again, because my assessment that there has been no breach of Article 104 is based on careful listening to its exposure and it is necessary for the MPs to receive a stenogram of that presentation to avoid further misunderstandings. The word after the breach of the Rules of Procedure first has the MP Dragan Šormaz, and I ask the service to deliver a stenogram as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6330	Article 104. We continue with a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly by the People's MP, Hope Kolundzia, who said even some things that are not true, here for this speaker. She said that when we were a congregation majority, when we were government, we didn't accept the amendments to the opposition. You were not a folk MP for the first three years of the first government of Vojislav Kostunica and then of the assembly, I was. I don't know if you were a member of the DS then, it's a flat-rate, it's really a flat-rate assessment you've given. I mean, you know, you can say a lot of extra flat-rates. I can say, on a flat-rate basis, that, for example, you are the reason for the 2010 DS Assembly's delay, and I can say that, for example, that the members of the DS disagree in a larger number with the function that was intended for you, so that there is no crowd, then the Assembly is moved. I can say it on time, just like you said it. I will remind you that at that time, 266 laws were passed and all were assessed by the EU as positive. Three declarations on Kosovo, elected judges, were resolved, in two hours parliament met to decide on someone's immunity. The Constitution has been adopted. For more than 50 laws, the DS parliamentary group voted, which was then the opposition. Voted. That's right, there was an opposition. Don't you remember we voted, say, in the last vote for two laws. So, for more than 50, she voted DS and was adopted by the amendments. When you speak here, be careful what you say, because there are those of us who remember longer than they remember chickens between two feedings. If you think you can manipulate the marketing team and Srdjan Shaper to perform in both the Assembly and that you can drive us crazy in that way, that's where you made the mistake. So, please, you'll probably say now that it's also not injured the dignity of the National Assembly. I think so. If that's what you think, there's no problem, so as not to communicate like this, I immediately ask that in the voting day the Assembly declare itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6331	There were no injuries to the presentation of the People's Parliament, a part you mentioned as the basis, even said four amendments were adopted, two of which were submitted by the government, and two MPs by the opposition for the period you're talking about. You'll see with your insight into the stenogram, it's obviously a misunderstanding. I hope that after reading the stenogram, we will clarify the experience of the spoken and what is really spoken, because what is really spoken is not the basis for the violation of Article 104. The word has a folk MP, Marina Ragush, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6332	Ladies and gentlemen, that is the problem of the chairman, Mrs. Komic, because we are slowly but surely all of us are lost in interpretations, and in the end we will all be lost in translation. A member of the 100th position of the MP who wants to speak about the violation of this Rules of Procedure has been injured, giving the president of the National Assembly the word immediately following the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker. SRS MPs sitting in front of Mr Zoran Nikolic, I will now present a material fact, Mr Zoran Nikolic is right. At that moment, I turned around when five or six colleagues reported speaking to the Rules of Procedure. You had the advantage because Mrs. Kolundjia finished her exposure. You called my colleague from the SRS Dr. Nikola Žutić, who went out completely confused for a pay phone and I'm still telling him, Nikola, wait, the DSS gentlemen have the advantage. That's true, Mrs. Comic, that you would ask Nikola Žutić here in front of the pay phone if you actually called in to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure. That's true. This is not the first time, this is the custom, the truth is done, the opposition is treated here, and the public needs to know, in a very unacceptable, incorrect, and way that is not worthy of no opposition, but is not worthy of man. The truth works, not because the SRS says, Mrs. Nado Kolundji, the opposition's job is to criticise. The opposition shouldn't even suggest anything. She can criticise, question, suspect, analyze. It's the work of the opposition that we're all trying to do. What's been attributed to us here for days, ten days, that we regularly obstruct and fall with that obstruction on very important subjects, it's simply not true, because we're not part of the ruling majority. We do not have the power to obstruct, as you have the power here to exhaust us and to degrade the entire opposition to interpretations that are not even rational, just because certain people, who are the first of equal, have given the Rules of Procedure the opportunity to give arguments. You can also say that tomorrow is Monday, but for the opposition and the people in Serbia, who live real life, it will be unacceptable. He knows what time he's in, what time he's in, what time he's in. This really has to go under somewhere, and we all have to think about it in this house, and MPs of the ruling coalition and MPs of the opposition, what we really want to achieve. Who are we representing here? Whether we're doing this for ourselves or we need to get out of our electoral body, among all the citizens of Serbia and say, we failed. You live a life that is not worthy of an ant. We failed, we failed that exam. Let's disband all institutions and let Boris Tadic rule. Then obviously everyone would be happy. I'm sorry for overstepping. This is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'll try not to do it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6333	An extension of 30 seconds in a joint agreement implies the time it takes to complete the thought. It's never been pointed out that the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Four, four minutes and 30 seconds, five minutes, we can already make a joint decision about it, and the chairman, when he's forced to say measures. There was no breach of Rules of Procedure in Rule 104. I can only repeat the argument. With careful listening to the public message, there was no demeaning of either the National Assembly or the MPs of the opposition. That's why I asked for a stenogram of her presentation, for MPs to read, because the misunderstanding apparently occurred in the experience of what was said and what was really said behind the pay phone. I don't dispute law, of course, which is why we're all getting the word we're talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. If the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji had diminished the efforts the opposition had made, it would have been warned. If she had diminished the debate on the amendments, she would have been warned. If she demeaned anyone's performance, she'd be warned. She didn't do any of that. You will see when you read the stenogram on your own, or whatever you want, what was the content of its exposure. The word of the Messenger of the people is Dobrislav Prelic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and the Messenger of the people, Petar Jojić, and then the messenger of the people of Nada Kolundzija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I believe you are not at all comfortable, and there are citizens of Serbia, I am sure, who regularly and carefully follow the meeting of the National Assembly. You can thank the ruling majority in this House for this harassment, and I am sure, above all, that the most responsible president of the DS Parliament Club, Mrs. Hope Kolundzie. I'm sure she made an assessment, probably in agreement with someone from the top of her party, given that today's fame, she thought the MPs of the opposition, a large number of amendments they submitted would not defend. The opposition MPs have unequivocally made it clear that they are ready to defend their amendments, because they must defend the amendments primarily because of their voters, because dear Serbian citizens, you can imagine what a budget rebalance is when the opposition tabled 84 amendments. Mrs. Nada said one thing about the budget a little while, and I will tell you Serbian citizens that the budget of the Republic of Serbia is an act that must satisfy the coalition capacity. The budget of the Republic of Serbia was spent by yellow dictator Boris Tadic for the elections, and then he continued to hold the budget by creating this non-principle coalition. He further spent, Serbian citizens, your money by creating power in Belgrade, and they are reportedly in a hurry in Europe. They are in a hurry in Europe, and Europe does not want Serbia there, primarily because laws are not respected in Serbia. The laws do not primarily respect DS, because it supports these intruders in this assembly who stole the mandates of the SRS, but it is an extraordinary reserve for them, which at any moment is ready to jump in to preserve this coalition that is currently in power. Serbian citizens, this government has no perspective, this government has no future, I am convinced, because so many greedy mouths in this coalition, and unfortunately the cake in Serbia is very small. (President: three minutes is the Messenger of the people. What member of the Rules of Procedure are you calling for to be injured? ) Article 104 to the presentation of Mrs Nada Kolundzhija and Article 100, item 1, as Ms Marina Ragush said, because you gave your word to our colleague, Dr Žutić, and you gave priority to the MPs who reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6335	The word has been made by MP Petar Jojic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6336	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, I'm reporting by article 225 and 226, reminding you that 15 days ago I asked for a notice that referred to the following: which companies were sold? Is it true that it was sold to Frikom, Somboled, Inteks Mladenovac, Paper Factory Belgrade, Jelen Do, Bigz, Diamond, Dunavka Velika Gradište, Erdevik, Stražilovo, Sremski Karlovci, Podunavlje, Baka Palanka, Millennium Insurance, Rotographics Subotica? Is it true, ladies and gentlemen, that these companies actually bought companies from Croatia? Is it true that there are not five companies or Serbian companies in Croatia? Regarding the budget, which revenue comes from these companies that have been sold, what revenue has been charged, at what cost and are the obligations made in relation to commitments made to workers respected? A large number of workers are out of work. Great values have gone to the hands of other profiteers here. There are estimated to be about 500 companies from Croatia in Serbia, and Serbian companies and Serbs in Croatia do not have those companies. So this state allowed companies and individuals from Croatia to come to large capital and property to harm the Republic of Serbia and its budget. I notice that both the minister or the game of games or the recalculating to adopt amendments, I don't know, but someone reminded me, says they're watching TV and the minister is playing games, not listening to MPs. I have no reason to be angry if she's gonna play games or listen. It is important to me that MPs in this House know. Secondly, that this injustice and this robbery of people's property should be known to Serbian citizens. That's why the SRS is asking for the chairman-in-Office to remind the government, and I asked for an explanation and a notice about this huge capital that went into other people's hands outside Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6337	Since the request for your explanation has already been made, I can only remind you that the members of 225 and 226, since they are from part of the Rules of Procedure of Rights and responsibilities, do not have a time limit for providing explanations or for contact with the MP who requested the explanation. Every reasonable government and ministry will see that they inform you as soon as possible and in that sense we will remind you. The word has a People's MP, Nada Kolundzija, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1), and then MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6338	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 101: if the MP is wrongly interpreted. I really think I'm either misread or maybe I wasn't clear enough, which I can also assume, from the stenogram we'll see that none of what I've been accused of following my presentation have said anything. So, in no single word did I send even the least reproach to the opposition for the amendments it submits to the budget. On the contrary. So, in no single word did I challenge or question the right of MPs to intervene with amendments and in another way on the legal projects that are here before us. That, I believe, is what everyone will see from the stenograms you're about to get. What I wanted to say is that as the ruling majority, we are seriously considering every amendment, trying to find ways to accept some of the amendments, which can be accepted. Before this incident happened, which I really don't feel guilty about, even though it seemed like I provoked it, we just agreed with the government's representatives to accept the amendment to Milice Radovic. So my whole presentation was just an attempt to explain that sitting and not speculating about your amendments doesn't mean we're not seriously considering them and not looking for ways to make those amendments, which can be accepted, we accept. That's all I meant to say and everything I said. I can accept that the reasons for such a reaction are something else and I can appreciate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6339	The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundzija used the right to reply, given that it was mentioned, and she received the word of saying that she was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so because of the stenogram, to say that she was given the word on the basis of Article 101, the right to replicated because of the wrong interpretation. I ask the National Assembly's service to provide me with stenograms of presentations by the MPs Zoran Nikolic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Milice Vojić-Marković, Arsen Đurić, Dragan Šormaz, Miroslav Markicevic, Dobrislav Prelic, Marine Ragus and Petar Jojic. The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic, who gets his word because he wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets his word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6340	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 100, I refer to members 225 and 226. Before I open that topic, I'll read from the stenogram what Hope Kolundji was talking about. It writes -- the opposition's dissatisfaction with the number of amendments accepted, you must understand that the budget is a very specific act brought by coordination in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is not true, the budget is brought by coordination in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is the government that is only proposing, and it is the MPs who have to align all items in the budget, whether they are income, whether they are a cost-effective party, and it is the Assembly that is carrying out budget coordination, not the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that you are blindly listening to the Government of the Republic of Serbia is your problem, then it's a misrepresentation of this assembly, then it's a misrepresentation of this home. Then why is the draft budget coming to the Serbian Parliament if it is to be agreed by the government? Isn't it enough for the ministers to sit down, pick themselves up, drink the coffee and say, "I need so much money for this cabinet, for the ministry I need so much money, for the fleet I need so much money, for the friends I need to hire, I need so much money. And then the second vice president says, for my cabinet, I need so much resources, and the second cabinet so much resources and the third vice president, the fourth, etc., and so on as ministers, so their friends, relatives that I don't count any further. I guess the purpose of the budget is to satisfy the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not the government of the Republic of Serbia. The government here doesn't matter. The government is an executive body that must implement decisions of the Republic of Serbia Assembly, not force us to listen to the government what we are going to do. We've mixed pots here. I'm not a lawyer, but I know these basic things. All citizens of the Republic of Serbia know that. I read to you, you claim it's true that it's absolutely not true. On the other hand, I will report to the Rules of Procedure again, what I wanted to say was that I wanted the Minister of Economy to ask her, but this is another piece of evidence that the president or head of Parliament's group that makes up the ruling coalition expresses exactly that position that this assembly is irrelevant, that it is here that only needs to run through some amendments, through some members of the law, and that what the government says is important. If that's the case, let's finish the session, the government suggested it, we accept it, and we move on, we'll discuss some laws where it doesn't matter what the government says. After the time has elapsed, so as not to warn me, I will report back to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6341	People's MP, you have called for Articles 225 and 226. You didn't ask anyone for any notice. It's the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. So, please, since we're already agreeing to use the Rules of Procedure not to be abused. If you are referring to Articles 225 and 226, then ask for some notice from an organ or organization. The word is from MP Dragan Shormaz, who wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6342	Article 104 again violates the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't understand what you've been sharing with us. Here, look, he has now read by fellow Kragovic - dissatisfaction with the opposition with the number of amendments accepted, you must understand that the budget is one very specific act that is adopted by the government of the Republic of Serbia, that the space for interventions on the budget is always small. And what I was saying, to remind myself -- that of course does not apply to you, but to those MPs who were the ruling majority, and now they object, I am one of them, and now they object that the government is insensitive to the argument of opposition MPs and does not accept amendments, and the previous Government has acted alike. Well, in the previous government, the Democratic Party had a majority. In the previous government, the Democratic Party had a minister over everyone else. The prime minister was Dr Vojislav Kostunica. Whom you're criticizing here, again yourself. But since it is much more important what counterpart Kragovic said, your mouth is full of the European Union. You want to know how a great country of the European Union, with 38 million inhabitants, adopts the budget, what is Poland like? He's got three budget readings. Rebalance, it doesn't exist, it's not brought, it's just the budget. The draft budget must be submitted to the National Assembly by 30 September. If they do not surrender until September 30th to the National Assembly, elections are discussed. Only at first reading of the budget is the current finance minister or representatives of the government, only at the first in the Assembly, in the Same. Otherwise, they also have a Senate, a two - house congregation. It's a principle debate. The amendments are then submitted. The amendments are being discussed by MPs and the government is no longer asking questions. After the debate at its Senate session, a hundred senators submit amendments, but the amendments are decided at the third reading of the Same. The government doesn't ask questions. The National Assembly brings the budget, does not bring the government, the government only predicts it, just suggests it, everything else is in the National Assembly and in the MPs. This is the country of the European Union. Also, the government has no right to propose a budget for the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, for the National Assembly of the Republic of Poland, for the Constitutional Court, for the Republic Election Commission, for the Ombudsman, for the Protector of Children's Rights, for the Auditor's House, is called the Control Commission. He has no right, these institutions are called holy cows and they propose their own budget, and the minister is obliged to put it in the draft budget. This is your European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6343	National MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6344	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, Mrs Comic, regarding your presidency, I point out the violation of the 100th Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Namely, after the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, no explanation was given under Article 100(3) of the Rules of Procedure. As you know, the president of the National Assembly is obliged to make an explanation following the infraction of the Rules of Procedure. I can read the entire article 100: to a National MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker. The MP is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure in his opinion has been violated, to quote and explain what the injury consists of, by being able to speak for the longest three minutes, without counting the time needed to quote. Then there's an injured attitude. The president of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation afterwards. Apparently, the fatigue took its toll, since it's already been 22.00 hours, you haven't given an explanation to the MP Prely. Article 100 of Article 3 has been broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6345	Mr. Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6346	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was going to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but on the way I left, I got this material and I got this impossible line from the head of the Hope Kolundji Parliament Club. She has only brought the truth, and that is what irritates all the MPs in this House. I wanted to ask a question based on an article. The 225th and 226th finance ministers, and let me ask them: for what is the item in the budget -- the current budget reserve? Let me remind you, there are local elections in KIM space. The elected presidents of municipalities, vice-presidents of municipalities, presidents of municipalities, vice-presidents of municipalities, elected members of municipal councils. It's the minimum that needs to be chosen so a local self-government can work. The election was May 11th. Today, another hour and a half, the October expires. No official of any local self-government has received personal income for his work. How is that possible, Madam Minister? No president of the municipality, no vice-president of the municipality, no president of the assembly, no vice-president of the assembly, no member of the municipal council received a single dinar from 11 May to 1 November. What kind of country do we live in? Is there no reason why there is no municipality in which there is a ruling government position on KIM? If by chance they had defeated forces for European Serbia, or the G17 Plus Force, or the SPS and PUPS force, then there would have been money, then the presidents of the municipalities would have received their own incomes, then the vice presidents of the municipalities would have received their own incomes, the vice presidents of the assembly, the secretary, members of the council, would have received their incomes. In which country is there to discuss elections and to continue a six-month process that has no money? May I remind you of the costs they are granted? From 40 to 50,000 dinars. What would one president of the KIM municipality do with 40,000 dinars at his disposal from this Government of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6347	Would you please bring an end to the thought?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6348	I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6349	National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6350	Madam President, Article 104. But before I start talking about it, I think it's a good thing you came here, to just solve this dilemma. Announcing the violation of the Rules of Procedure under Article 100, National Assembly Vice-President Gordana Comic explained to me that there were no injuries to article 100. The 100th article reads, "To a national MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed." At that moment, the previous speaker was the head of the parliamentary group for European Serbia, Mrs Nada Kolundzija. Following her presentation, several DSS MPs, the NS and the SRS, raised the Rules of Procedure wanting to speak about her exposure. Mrs. Comic gave her word to the SRS MP to talk about the amendment. I advertised that kind of damage to the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Comic tells me there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Let's solve this dilemma, see if there's been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure or no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. We claim it is. So, how can someone get the word to talk about the amendment, if five-six MPs have raised the Rules of Procedure asking to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, to speak about the presentation of the head of Parliament's Group for European Serbia, Ms. Hope Kolundzie? This is the essence of the problem, and it was still an attempt by Mrs. Comic to completely dissipate the work of this assembly. She's not just doing it tonight, she's been doing it for days, whenever she's here in the chair, she's having sex with the MPs, explaining to them four or five minutes of some of the things we know from the Rules of Procedure. If that time were collected, believe me, it would be almost a whole day, let's see how much it costs the citizens of Serbia and taxpayers.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6351	Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6352	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, somehow I would like to ask and ask the MPs who make up the ruling majority in this room not to be angry with the MPs of the opposition, because MPs do their job, submit amendments to the drafts of the law, and it is a matter of the government and the minister who is present to accept or not. I even think today went well, in the sense that we've done a lot of work and done a lot of work. We even heard, in an announcement, that Finance Minister Mrs Dragutinovic might be planning to accept one amendment, it is the amendment of my colleague from DSS Milice Radovic. The MP explains his amendment, trying to convince you, if he convinces you, if not, my God, you are power. There is Mrs Dragutinović, I want to perhaps thank her in some way, I suppose on behalf of all of us; not to thank her, I want to criticise her for not accepting more amendments, which has not accepted the amendments at all, but has shown that she is one very patient person, because she is in this room all day, together with us, and we have started working at 10.00 hours, and now it is 22:30, so it is one of the few ministers from this government who is all the time in this room. I checked in with article 225. I would like to ask a concrete question to Mrs Comic, Vice-President of the Assembly, who has until a moment of Presidency - what does it mean to ask for the stenographic notes of my fellow MPs from the DSS or opposition MPs, what does it require so loudly? She wants to see the discussions, read the discussions of MPs Petkovic, Šormaz, Milice Vojic-Markovic, etc. What does that mean? Please, is this Mrs. Comic planning to read our discussions, then evaluate them or is it some kind of intimidation? I warn the MPs who discussed it, November 7th is officially a quarter, so that you be careful, if your discussions are now evaluated by a unit, then we are in a big problem. What does that statement mean, Mrs. Comic, give me an insight into the discussion of the DSS MPs?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6353	Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6354	Once again under Article 104. I find it really very difficult for the People's MP of Hope Kolundji to offend the dignity of the National Assembly. What she feels is that the National Assembly should only be a government service to seal the bill and nothing else, although you can see the full list of responsibilities of the National Assembly and not just legislative activity, you often talk about the advantages of the legislative activities of the National Assembly in relation to the other obligations it has under the Constitution. I apologize for talking last time for three minutes, so you interrupted me like that. I got calls from citizens saying it wasn't heard until the end of what I was saying. I was talking about how the EU countries we are looking for are, as far as I know, all the parliamentary groups here want Serbia to be part of the EU someday. We have a difference in strategy and the way we think it should happen. One of these is that we from the DSS want to have the National Assembly as are the national congregations in the EU member states. I set an example of a great country, like Poland, when the budget is adopted there. They repeat this: three budget readings, they call it, three budget discussions, not one but three budget discussions. By September 30th, he must arrive first in the procedure if the elections do not arrive, unless the government makes a proposal. The minister only attends the first principle debate. The second is in the Fair, there is a two-home assembly, 460 MPs are giving their amendments. How many amendments do we have, 80 or something? There are 900 amendments to the People's MPs' budget, and it doesn't occur to anyone to call them because they submit amendments, and then they go to the Senate, which senators give their amendments, after the third reading, votes, and that has to be over by January 30th. If it does not end by January 30th, the parliament in Poland will be disbanded and parliamentary elections will be re-scheduled. The deficit is increasing here, the government is in debt, we spend more than we can, we give money to nonsense, and when we talk, then we give a lecture, then we are criticised, and what Ambassador Donka Banovic said earlier, even threatens us. I already got two threats about going out for a pay phone. I practically understand this by the threat that Mrs. Comic said she wanted to read, I don't know what I said, according to the Rules of Procedure. (President: Time. I'm done. Let him be threatened, Donka, no problem. We're used to it. They were trying to take away our mandates, so they didn't make it. Let it continue with the threats. We work in the interest of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6355	The word is Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6356	Dear citizens of Serbia, you who still follow these events at St. Luke's Day in the National Assembly of Serbia, otherwise it is 22 hours and 35 minutes. I reported for the violation of the 100th Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What the previous chairman-in-Office of this, so less and less meaningful, discussion that we are having, was launched by Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, the president of the Assembly, and mostly on the subject of all previous MPs, the SRS, DSS, NS, LDP. But this time I report first of all for my colleague Boris Aleksic, who also advertised the violation of Article 100(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where it clearly decidently states that the President of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation of what the speaker referred to as a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, this has not been done once, and I am not talking about the fact that Articles 4 are also injured. The Rules of Procedure, where they are asked that, following an explanation by the President of the National Assembly, if the MP remains in the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on the issue on the day of the vote. Of course, that's not happening either, so I will immediately use my right to ask that in the voting day to decide whether the President of the National Assembly, that is, in this case, the chairman was obliged to, after the advertising of Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to give MPs the explanation they requested. I say again, I don't know if this makes any sense at all, given that this budget rebalancing debate is currently attended by a total of 12 of the 128 MPs of the ruling coalition. Just so you know how much anyone cares about such legal acts. Thank you, and I hope you will appreciate this objection to the position of the 4th Article 100. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6357	I'd like to make a proposal, go back to work on the amendments, get to page 51 today, that's an amendment to Section 5 of Sections 9.15 and 54, which Mr. Shormaz submitted, to start tomorrow, that is, on Monday, that amendment, if that's okay with you. Which means you'd be free by now. I'm joking a little bit, but let's agree to work on these amendments. The 5th edition of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does Mrs. Radovic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6358	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the ministry, I have reported by the amendment that I have heard there is an announcement that it may be accepted, such assurances have not been received from the minister and that is exactly why I am now explaining my amendment. Namely, the amendment was submitted to Section 5 of Article 5, which is required to transfer the amount of 19 million dinars to the permanent cost of municipal courts from travel items. I find the amendment very meaningful, although it makes me very uncomfortable to say that for my amendment, because it comes from the fact that appeals courts do not exist. They were established by law in 2002, but since then, six years have literally prolonged their formation. The deadline for the formation of appeals courts was 1 January 2007, but the deadline was also exceeded. The practical situation is such that budget rebalancing provides means for the judges of the Court of Appeal's travel expenses, which I had previously said did not exist. I don't know that any judge of the Court of Appeal has been elected, nor does he exist at all. If so, is it not good that these funds that are intended for a non-existent institution are re-planned in such a way that municipal courts are helped to improve the conditions of their work and the material position of each of our citizens and we individually know how difficult it is. For four years I worked in the judiciary, two years as an intern at the Third Municipal Court, and after two years as an expert associate in the Second Municipal Court. I can tell you that I'm extremely familiar with the situation in courts. In fact, our public may not be familiar enough, but I am going to be able to concentrate on Belgrade courts, because that's something I know, I can't get into the problems of courts in the interior, because I personally haven't convinced myself, even though I have a lot of information. Today, the public probably doesn't know that the judge, on average, has about 300 cases in the paper, and the judge, the perpetrator, between 150 and 300 cases in the work, and the investigative judge, about 500 cases in the work. It's about active objects, as they say in living objects. In order for them to be completed, completed within a reasonable period, it would be necessary for judges to judge each day. Simply, this is not a situation in our courts because there are no adequate conditions for the work of judges, there are not enough numbers of courts and judges are forced to judge each third day. It is precisely the fact and information that our citizens have, and that is the information why they have absolutely justifiable reason to care, because it is later being held on something that they are directly interested in, which is exactly the frequency of the hearing, or the search itself. In addition to the lack of adequate working conditions for the number of courts, there are no adequate conditions for the cabinets themselves. We have a situation where there are three judges sitting in one cabinet today, plus professional associates, plus court interns themselves. Does anyone think that in such a situation a judge can adequately prepare for the day of judgment and can anyone possibly imagine a judge writing his sentence in such conditions? When it comes to the material position of employees in the judicial administration, there is a much worse situation. For the sake of the public, I need to list some information relating to the monthly earnings of employees in the judicial administration, in order to know how difficult these people are in a material situation. The journal has a salary of 16.049 dinars, 18.135 dinars, 17.011 dinars, an expert associate ranging from 32.579 to 40.630 dinars. Also, I find it absolutely inadmissible that there is such a discrepancy between receiving judges, on the one hand, and receiving other court employees, on the other hand. I wouldn't want to be misunderstood this way and this opportunity. Of course, I do not advocate paying judges, they do extremely responsible work, their salaries should be higher, but the fact that employees in the judicial administration receive extremely low monthly earnings should also be respected, and their position should primarily be corrected. It is also unacceptable, in a situation where a huge public spending of 44% of gross social products is forecasted in the budget rebalance, that this government has absolutely no hearing from employees in the judicial administration. The budget was made so that each of the representatives of the ruling coalition put everything he wanted, in fact, into it. Whatever any of the representatives of the ruling coalition in the election campaign promised, it found its place on the bulky side of the budget. That's the situation with pensions, unfortunately. Pensions are promised to be at 70% of the average net earnings in Serbia. That promise was nothing. The DSS has pointed to this from the very beginning, when pensioners came to us with a requirement to form a government that doesn't exist today. We then openly told them that the request is unrealistic and that the economy itself cannot meet such a single request because it exceeds its possibilities. They didn't believe us, but now they're absolutely convinced that their demands will be nothing. This is about the brutal deception of the pensioners, which followed precisely because this government would be formed. Unlike the pensioners, whose votes were to be won, the government did not agree with the workers in the judicial administration, because the public opinion on the court was created in advance, I am talking about the overall court apparatus, as something that is extremely bad, inefficient and completely corrupt. Of course, I don't share this opinion because I know the situation from the inside. The fact is that there are a number of judges who do not meet the conditions of professional and perhaps responsible work, but that is a problem that can be solved. I can't agree to the whole of the judiciary qualified in this way. Given that in early November, the European Commission will submit a report on the state of reform in Serbia, where we know in advance that the most negative assessment of Parliament's work and the work of the court apparatus will be evaluated, the government has adopted a set of judicial laws faster and better yesterday, where some of the newspapers in these proposals are absolutely unconstitutional. If, under the pretext of the necessary reform of the judicial system, new developments are introduced whose constitutional and legal basis are very suspicious, then I am fully convinced that this cannot contribute to the creation and development of the rule of law, which should guarantee respect for democracy, the rule of law and the provision of conditions for independent work of judges, in the right sense of that word. In that set of judicial laws comes from reelection, something that may have found its basis in public. I have to point this out to what judges of Serbia have been warning for a long time, which is that the re-election issue does not find its foothold in the Constitution. It is not legally justified, and therefore it is not justified, because by reelection the judges cannot change in any way the fundamental problem that exists in the judiciary itself. It would be good to respect the Venice Commission's remarks that these laws comply with international standards and provide firm guarantees for judicial independence. Another one of the newspapers provided for in this set of judicial laws is that more than a hundred municipal courts are abolished. It's something that can seem very shocking not only for people who work in courts but for the public at all. The question arises which criteria have defined the government in a move like this. Does the government know how many people in the judiciary are going to be out of a job at the moment? The situation in the judiciary, if these laws are adopted, will become chaotic. On the one hand, we have appeals vessels that are not formed, and on the other hand more than a hundred municipal courts are abolished. The amendment that I have submitted primarily comes from respecting the reality that there are no appeals courts and from respecting the fact that the municipal courts have an extremely difficult situation in terms of working conditions and in general the material status of employees in the judicial administration. I'm simply not satisfied with the explanation the government has given me for this amendment, because it doesn't come from respecting reality, but I hope there's still room for a possible correction to this argument. I sincerely hope that the Government will accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6359	First Mrs. Kolundjia, then Mr. Marash, then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6360	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in agreement with the Finance Minister, the ruling majority will vote on this amendment in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6361	Then let's move on. We're not talking about this amendment anymore. You want it anyway, no matter what it's accepted? You want me to give you my word next? On Article 5, the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government and the Finance Committee... You still want to follow this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6362	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I really won't delay, or I won't delay the time, but I must say that I am pleased that the ruling majority has realized that there is an amendment that could be adopted. Of course, LDP MPs will support this amendment for a simple reason that this amendment only specifies the previous amendment submitted by Mrs Judita Popovic. We've seen so much illogicalness here in this budget rebalancing. That's not true? Of course, it is not the same, I say, to specify the amendment submitted by Mrs Judita Popovic, for the simple reason that here the funds provided for travel are rerouted for municipal courts. But what's the problem? The problem is that we in the amendment of Mrs Judith Popovic have one item relating to an administrative court that does not exist. We also have travel expenses, for example, that amount to three million and six00,000. I would only ask you to make sure that, if possible, the amendment of Mrs Judith Popovic, at least that part, is specified. We have proposed to delete the entire paragraph 330, i.e. the economic classification. Let's see if there's anything necessary for administrative courts, and when it comes to appeals courts, we have buildings and construction facilities. It's okay. In this paragraph, we do not have a previous administrative court. Let's see that these travel expenses etc. We take it off that item and reroute it, like Mrs. Milic, to a specific point, so we can find some solution that could really fix this classification. I hope we have time to look at Monday to sort of correct this, because it's completely declassified that administrative courts have travel expenses, and they don't exist. As there are no appeals courts, there is no excuse that there are travel costs in this incredible amount of 19 million, there is no such thing as an administrative court. I'm just asking for a little bit of understanding, there's a minister, she'll probably see it best, so let's change it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6363	Mr. Kragovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6364	President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just wanted to point out the justification of this amendment, because it clearly stands here in article 5 of Section 5 of Chapter 5.3, appeals courts, function 330, economic classification 422, travel costs amounting to 19 million and 800,000. Some people who don't exist have been allocated the means to travel. Then a normal smart proposal to transfer those funds to municipal courts. What did I want? I wanted to point out to the minister that there are municipal courts in Kosovo and Metohija. As we hear it, you want to abolish almost all municipal courts in Kosovo and Metohija, which is unimaginable if we want Kosovo and Metohija to continue to form Serbia. What this assembly must do and this government is to strengthen Serbian institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. This means that the municipality must have a municipal court, a district court, it must have local police, it has its own education, health care, so that it can function. I therefore propose that some of these funds, which are intended for municipal courts here, be relocated that there are at least courts, one or more in northern Kosovo, that there is a municipal court in central Kosovo, in Strpci, in Kosovo Pomoravlje and that there is a municipal court in Metohija. Can you imagine our citizens, if according to a story, and in a few days the law on courts will come, that they will have only one municipal court in the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Now one citizen has to cross a mileage of 100-150 km to take out the need not to investigate to regulate his work obligation if he can get a job somewhere. Where's he coming from? There's nowhere to go. He has to come to Kosovo Mitrovica. That certificate shall not be charged. Then we have to lay down the law to pay that citizen of ours who travels 150 km for travel expenses he had to pay to come to get his right. That's why I wanted to report for the amendment and appeal to the minister once again so that this funding of this 19 million would not only cost the courts' travel through Serbia, but also courts in Kosovo and Metohija's territory, and especially... (President: Time. What? (President: Time. Sorry, sorry, you're speaking by amendment. I'm tired, I admit it. It's obvious that you want to work, and then you get tired, so first the head of the Parliament Club starts talking about something she can't talk about, and then you all start talking about it. You have to, if you've agreed to work, work until we're done. Don't give up now. (President: Excuse me, Mr Kragovic. ) Accept what the MPs say and say here, not what the Government is saying. You see so many examples that the government has done something that is impossible, giving funds from taxpayers' budgets to those who don't exist. That's impossible. As an appeal court, we hear an administrative court, it doesn't figure, it doesn't exist, and there are certain means planned. It is therefore better to channel these funds, as I have already noted, to municipal courts, that there is a municipal court in Gracanica, which will provide for those Serbs of poor people living in central Kosovo, that there is a municipal court in Strpec, that there is in Ranilug to cover Kosovo Pomoravlje, in Gorazdevec to cover Metohija and that there are normally municipal courts in northern Kosovo and Metohija. It is something that is normal and that we must do to give opportunity, motive, power to the Serbian people to stay and survive in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. If you lift the courts, it's one link of authority that is necessary for the lives of any nation. You can't live unless there's a court. Life is impossible where there is no court, there is no democracy, there is no justice, there is no law, nothing is respected. That's why we want to repeat the same story here a few times to convince this government that impossible proposals are being submitted to the MPs, and we have to nominate. We don't have to. We can point out that the government has made a mistake and that there are much better ways to redistribute those funds, so that this same branch, the judiciary, works better. On the other hand, by the time I got out, I'd like to ask another question from the economy minister. I have proposed an amendment seeking funding from the Community Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija. The reasoning is not in the budget, it is contrary to the law, Article 2(2). Budget law. Contrary to Article 6 and Article 7. Budgetary user law means something that doesn't exist. However, I will have to deny you, either you or whoever wrote this amendment, that the Assembly was formed on Vidovdan, 28 June 2008, that we held several sessions, that yesterday we were visiting the President of the Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, and also to inform you that the government has reached a conclusion which clearly states that it recognises the assembly. I will read to you, to remind you, on July 11th, the Official Messenger, conclusion 1344: Starting with the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia explicitly determines that the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that it has a position of essential autonomy within the sovereign state of Serbia, and that from such a position as Kosovo and Metohija, all state authorities, including the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have a constitutional obligation to represent and protect the state interests of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. That the Assembly of the Community of the municipalities of Kosovo and Metohija was founded on 28 June 2008 in Kosovo Mitrovica, with the presence of MPs from 25 municipalities of Kosovo and Metohija, on the basis of the results of local elections; that the Assembly of the Community of Kosovo and Metohija was established on the basis of the results of the election of the units of local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, held on 11 May 2008, which was announced by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; that, following the unilateral, illegal declaration of independence of Kosovo, and the so-called so-called National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Kosovo Constitution, created the need for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to be institutionally organised; to protect the security of Serbs and all citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija by forming the Assembly; to encourage Serbia's efforts to reach a permanent solution to Kosovo and Metohija's status within the borders of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of Articles 97 and 182. Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 43(3) The government's "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", number 55/05 and 71/05, corrections 101/07 and 65/08; the government draws its conclusion, Madam Minister, the government draws a conclusion on support for the establishment of the Community Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija. First, support is given to the establishment of the Kosovo and Metohija Community Assembly, which was founded in Kosovo, Mitrovica, on June 28th 2008. Secondly, the government and this conclusion confirm that the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija is an inalienable part of the unique and indivisible constitutional and state-law order of the Republic of Serbia and confirms its readiness to implement the Constitution and laws in the territory of the Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the entire legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Third, this conclusion to be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" 05, issue 110-26-48/08, in Belgrade, 10 July 2008, by the government, President Mirko Cvetkovic. Is what the official messenger says a lie or what you wrote in the explanation of the amendment? Or you want to give support, we'll give you support, you Serbs suffer poorly still in Kosovo and Metohija. Just organize yourself, manage yourself, do as you know and know, we give you support from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but we don't want to create conditions for you, we don't want to help you strengthen the institutions of local self-government. Because I was just saying that no other president of the municipality has received a salary in six months, that no official of the municipal local self-government has received personal income because there is no funds, budget rebalance is expected, as if there is no current budget reserve. The moment elections are discussed, it should be predicted that after these elections some local self-government institutions will be formed, that funds must be provided for those people to be able to work. Just as this conclusion of the government, which was reached on 10 July 2008, signed by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, obliges you to accept my amendment and to allocate the minimum funds for the functioning of the Community Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija. I didn't ask for any particular item, I didn't ask for any special funds, but within the framework of the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija to introduce a new division, a new chapter, which would set out and allow certain funds to be financed, and that institution recognised by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and you say there is no such thing, is not in the budget, contrary to the Budget Law. With these procedures, you show us that you have no interest in Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija at all, that you Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija are a burden, a ballast, that you can't wait for that Solana to come with that suite and say that Kosovo is independent, sign, sign, we'll sign, say goodbye, you Serbs are getting along in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, you have your own country, you have your own government, you have your own president, you work. We don't have a government, we don't have a president, we have a government in Belgrade and a president in Belgrade, and we want them to help us and we need them to help us. It's a constitutional obligation. It says here in the Constitution that they have to help us. If they don't, then let them say that treason is coming, that they want to give up 15% of the territory and leave us to mercy. If you want to betray us, be assured that this betrayal will not pass either because Serbs are determined to persist in their efforts to preserve the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. If you do not want to help us, all other countries that do not agree with Kosovo's independence will help us. The Russian Federation will help us, China will help us, help us other countries that claim that international law has been violated, that the Charter of the United Nations has been violated and that it cannot be created in part of the territory, in Serbian territory, to create a new Albanian state. That is why I appeal once again to the minister or to the head of the parliamentary club, because it represents the government, not the minister, because it accepts the amendment, not the minister, and she says we should behave when it comes to amendments, not the minister. Let Mrs. Nada Kolundzhija, when my amendment comes to order, come out again and say we accept that amendment, and then at least part of it will point out that they respect those Serbian institutions and the remaining Serbian people who have remained in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6365	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, section 6 of the amendments was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6366	Ladies and gentlemen, when Nikola Pasic and his government prepared the budget, ministers sat together with him to deploy the funds. The health minister demands a certain amount, the minister of justice demands a certain amount, the minister of education demands a certain amount. When he heard them all, Nikola Pasic said - well, I understand, and you're right out of education, you from health care, you from another resort, you from justice. While the Justice Minister says - Mr. President, we need plenty of wood for prisons, winter is coming, prisoners won't be able to get warmed up. Pasic puts his finger on his forehead and says -- listen, gentlemen of the Ministers, I won't go to school, and I can go to jail every day, so the priority will be prison institutions, to get wood for winter. The finance minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia is exclusive. The minister does not listen to objections or smart proposals from MPs. The minister and the government imagined that only they knew who to assign to from that leather purse filled with taxpayers' money. How does the minister's courage to sit in front of the MPs and lead the MPs astray and convince MPs that there is no need for funds for an institution? Courts of appeals, administrative courts do not exist. A law was passed on their establishment in 2002. These courts have not been established since then. Furthermore, no judges have been elected, nor have certain technical resources been provided. We're looking for funds, what one of our colleagues mentioned, we need funds to separate for travel. What trips? We don't have people to travel. We don't know if there's going to be a masculine cube, a dja asphalt, a Turkish kaldrma, I don't suppose. We can't believe it, nor can anyone convince us, and I believe that you gentlemen in a position will not believe someone that the buildings will travel. He won't. Services. What kind of favors? What services do we now need to secure from the budget for non-existent courts? No courts, no money. That money is directed at the expense of municipal courts. Because, as said in previous discussions, municipal courts, especially the administration has extremely low wages and personal incomes, ranged from 14, 15, 16, 17,000 dinars. I do not understand that the minister also claims that the government and the ministry have adopted a number of amendments. But for God's sakes, brothers and sisters, how come so much money from special services for every resort? Why don't you give up some special favors in those amounts? You know why? These special services will not be able to pass in the budget, undetected and uncontrollable, only when the audit institution works. When the audit institution comes, you can then determine the funds however you want because that institution will control where the funds go. This is how it can be available from that leather purse as long as we do not have budget inspections, until we have an audit institution and until someone answers why the final accounts of parliament have not been submitted since 2001. The final account is an extremely important control instrument for the use of budgets and budgets by users. I remind you again, we have 12 budgetary inspectors in Serbia, and we have seven and a half thousand taxpayers who charge taxes from our citizens. Special services, I will repeat and remind you gentlemen MPs, and the public, in 2007 special services from the budget were allocated 42 billion dinars. And to remind you that for 42 billion dinars, it was possible to buy twelve and a half thousand Middle Category tractors, to give to individual agricultural producers who would arm and process this rich Serbian country, and to produce for themselves, both for the state and for the export. A little sense if it were, and this budget could be more elastic. Of the hundreds of users at various levels, the finance minister has not said a single word where the budget user will cut or lower special services. None, they all stayed where the government said, or where the promoter said. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is not exactly the way it is for the MPs, both for you and for us from the SRS, unknown. Each host takes care of which funds he will target, at which point and for what needs, and what is the priority, which is not a priority. Mr Jadranko Vukovic, the MP of the SRS, who has been absent here for legitimate reasons tonight and has not been able to arrive at this meeting, has proposed an amendment to Article 5, section 6, function 133, in economic classification 411, in columns 6 and 8, the date of 63,597,490 is to be replaced by 50,597,490 dinars. In an explanation - excessive costs and minimum results regarding the protection of the human rights of our citizens, as well as the need to reduce budget expenditure, are saying to change these amounts in relation to the Citizens' Protector. Therefore, in the opinion of MP Jadranka Vukovic, this means and this difference should be directed towards the State Auditing Institution. It's about 13 million dinars. Ladies and gentlemen, since this is a budget rebalance, it is obvious that this budget has been recklessly made. It wasn't about every dinar and every yellow bank he had to go to. Only in uncontrollable use of the budget can the budget be made like this. Surgery is the budget, I repeat, and its biggest enemy is the Ministry of Finance and Tax Administration as the right-hand extension. I repeat, without control, the Ministry of Finance may, with the tax administration, break the economy of a state for a short time. I appreciate that Mrs. Finance is in front of the MPs. There's government officials and a place to come before the MPs and account for it, but the problem is, the ruling coalition, which you don't care enough, you don't pay enough attention to every number, every yellow bank where it's supposed to go. You're responsible for these billions and millions, and you know it's money, which our people would say, from taxpayers. If I were a finance minister, of all these special services I would leave 10%, 90% would target those funds to the financial poor, socially endangered, and not to anyone who needs a special service to offer him more special escorts when he goes either to Zlatibor, or to the Kopalnik, or abroad, even to pay him. Those who are poor, the government must take care of them. A smart, realistic, responsible government should not have been allowed before the MPs to come out with this kind of budget rebalance because it is wasteful. You won't accept what the opposition's MPs are thinking. You think you're smarter than the opposition's MPs. To tell you the truth, I refuse to pay attention like you didn't say what you said. I guess we're thinking, too, I guess we know where we live, too, living in the environments where you live, but you can see that there's dissatisfaction with the citizens. Whoever has a disability of five or six, or seven or eight thousand dinars, I guess the government should have thought about that layer, and they're very much. Second, where does the budget come from? You saw a moment ago when I mentioned what state-owned companies, companies of this people and treasures sold to Croatian companies and Croatian tycoons, that is the sweat and lust of those who have worked and created for decades, and now some have come only to sell for nothing. There's a problem. Where does the budget come from? It's not just the budget that we go to determine the prices of certain products or the small economy and what it does with various taxes and taxes, but the budget is filled with production. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, the budget is charged with production, that's where the budget needs to be filled. What she had in rebalancing needed a little smarter, wiser, more responsible to our fellow citizens, socially endangered, to help them. Invalids, pensioners and poor citizens could get one-time help, could at least get help to allow them to buy heat during the winter. However, in this state of affairs, when the government or minister sits down with their advisers and in agreement perhaps they write a budget rebalance within a day, knowing that each minister will take his side and demand something and which he does not need, which is like wastefulness. Secondly, Madam Minister is making fun of herself a little bit, and I'd like to ask her - Madam Minister, can you give us an explanation of how many employees were in the state in 2000 and how many are there today? How many cars were bought and what marks in 2000 and how many today? How many cars does your Ministry have now and today, how many employees, how many assistants, state secretary, secretary and driver, and what was 2000? There's a big difference. We have such a policy that only if we can get a job with the state, and in the economy it doesn't matter. What's that? Just what is party-profit, in this direction the government is thinking, and we think that citizens deserve a better government and more responsible, and that this budget rebalance must be fairer and reward the poor, help them and help them when they need it most.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6367	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, section 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1) and (3). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word, Mr. Jojic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6368	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Madam President of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 5, division 7, function 110, economic classification 411, in columns 6 and 8, by wanting and proposing to replace the amount of 15,646,900 with 28,649,900 dinars. My explanation would look like this. The state audit institution, which I was just talking about, is a very important institution that should finally work. The additional resources for the functioning of the Auditory Institution shall enable the reduction of the costs provided for by the citizens' protectors. Ladies and gentlemen, why do I attach importance to budget control? Budgetary users must be controlled. I repeat, from 2001 to today we have no final account that the government has submitted to parliament. Why do I think it is of paramount importance that the Auditory Institution finally begins to work? For corruption and crime. Once this institution is working properly, it's guaranteed that covering the way they are will not be. I'm free to say that we have a mini government, a little cover, and it doesn't reveal anything. The masculine user doesn't detect. It's the government of the current President Cvetkovic. When it comes to this institution, corruption and crime are particularly the result of criminal acts of corruption, which represent only different forms and aspects of the display of abuse of the official position. Ladies and gentlemen, there's the auditor, there's the control. When it reveals timely, prevents capture, to the responsibility of the person who committed the crime, auditors have the right to file criminal charges and to include both that instrument and that institution we recently discussed, i.e. when the laws were about corruption and crime. It is about different forms and aspects of active bribery, passive bribery. Bribes that know a large number of modern criminal laws, but also more international acts, in the first part of UN acts, which we believe should be applied in our country because our country has ratified them. So, from the Council of Europe and the EU, we want to respect standards, of course, based on reciprocity. If the EU gentlemen respect our rules of conduct, our customs, our citizen, our peasant, then we too will respect, based on reciprocity, and these citizens and adopt some standards that, in any case, can also be effective in our country. Due to the extreme danger of the corrupt behaviour of individuals and groups, particularly in transition and multiethnic societies, and the international community, the UN-like universal international organisation, as well as regional organisations, through a number of international legal acts, have set a solid legal basis and instrument, the instrument is in the auditory institution, ladies and gentlemen of the Members of Parliament, for organised joint action in the detection of criminal offences, in the persecution and prosecution of certain perpetrators of criminal offences. However, there is still no unique and widely accepted concept of control and definition of corruption, although it is a phenomenon of ancient origin. In legal, sociological, philosophical, security, political and other literature, different opinions and certain concepts can be found. In doing so, individual authors provide clear and precise definitions, unlike those that attempt to spread a circle of different forms of phenomenal manifestations and corruption under the traits and characteristics of this concept. Again, I personally, if you will allow me, the budget, the use of the budget and the control of how certain users use the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the international community has faced the danger of corruption early. In fact, corruption is one of the basic forms of showing organised crime, and this is the crime of an extremely high degree, weight and danger, with severe consequences for individuals and countries in general. This is about organised, often hidden, long-term activities of individuals and groups, organisations in the country and abroad, with the aim of undermining even the human rights of other persons through money or other property. I'm tying this again, relying solely on control and insight. It would be good for the finance ministry to finally, after seven years, come before Serbian citizens and make a final account for 2007 and after the end of the current 2008 year. That's what, ladies and gentlemen, which is why I think this amendment has room, but it's certainly a problem that the opposition is referring to it. And MPs to the opposition when they notice that a mistake or a failure has been made, they present and warn the government, the government is making Tosha, the government is silent, she thinks she's the smartest and what she's proposing just like that has to be. There's no other way. There's no others. There have been talks about the adoption of some amendments, so why not adopt Mrs Judita Popovic's amendment. As you just did, that is, during the day you took some steps to adopt an amendment, and that amendment was insisted on by the MP from the NS, Mr Markicevic, and then you said, "Come on, do it." When you saw that the MP was right, when he told the citizens and you knew it, you didn't accept it that way, you could have kept your mouth shut, but you know how the citizens of the public are waiting for you, they would have condemned you if you hadn't accepted this amendment, and you would have been convicted in public for sure and for not accepting the amendments relating to the transfer of funds to administrative courts and to the Casation Court. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot be selective. You have to be realistic. You have faced MPs from the opposition who objectively, realistically point out that you have made numerous mistakes. You've damaged some of the budget's users. Some of you have over-rewarded. That's the problem. There you are in crisis. You're in crisis with this budget rebalance. And what will wait for you when you come with the budget? Don't let dilettantes budget you. You must find the experts. You know that Mila who worked at the finance department. Mila is an excellent finance expert. Remember that, buddy. Mila's a good expert. Don't sin on your soul, please. As far as Krkobic is concerned, I'm not going in there. He told himself everything he needed and pensioners who expected nothing anymore. You know what the pensioners say? They say, "We don't trust Krkabi" or gifts when she brings us. So this is how much we can talk about now is one thing that is vital to our citizens. It is easy for those who receive wages, and what about those who are unemployed, what about the disabled. I have thousands of people with disabilities in Panchev, Mr. Mikovic knows that, and pensioners who have low incomes. But, as you know, you have this kind of anomaly in our society, the director of the ordinary business bank in Panchev last year had 550,000 salaries, and the Prime Minister has 120,000. Hey, guys, where do we live? It's an anomaly in a society. It can't be like that. Does that make sense? There isn't. The MPs of the SRS and other opposition parties indicated that there are serious and numerous objections here. The minister must understand, when he comes to the National Assembly, the minister is a government official and he has bills to the MPs, the other one is gone. He doesn't have any other authority. The budget is adopted by the Assembly, the government is proposing it. It's the other way around. You heard the opinion, the adoption budget and the yield, that's what Mr. Shormaz said, brought by the government. And it turns out that way. Not far from what he said, the government brings it. What were you changing in your budget during this session? Nothing, if you adopt some little amendment with some insignificant crumbs, that's one thing. That's one zero, and that's a hollow story that you tell here to the MPs and the Serbian public, how the government cares. The government can't sleep with care, how it takes care of the socially endangered, and people tell you that we have a million and seven hundred pensioners, a million and a half unemployed, and the budget is filled with production, and no one is making production, nor is it helping to make production work. Production should be a priority and then the budget will be charged. There will be pensions, so it will be for the unemployed and other categories of our country. That's why I'm free to say, you who make a budget in the government are left and you think you're the smartest, and I'm telling you that people say we have a bad government, we don't have a good government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6369	Mr. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6370	Madam President, Madam Minister, in these small hours on the agenda is the State Auditing Institution. Mr. Jojic suggested increasing the classification of 411, i.e. to pay the State Auditing Institution to increase, and the government replied that the amendment would not be accepted for the reason why the State Auditing Institution estimated that it did not need more funding. There's a government that's absolutely right. The government is absolutely right. The state audit institution is a body formed by the National Assembly, and unfortunately for me, that body doesn't work for a year, practically they haven't even started working. They have proposed some of their actions, and they need to be verified by the National Assembly. It's still far from any function that that body needs to do. It is also an obligation to international standards. We are the last country in Europe to receive the State Audit Institute. Under the Budgetary System Act, which we will violate in the next 20 minutes, the National Assembly should elect an external auditor of the final account until the moment until the State Audit Institution is formed. The state audit institution is formed, but at this point it has no capacity to audit the final account. If he'll be a year from now, we'll see about that. Of course this story has nothing to do with the government, because the state audit institution, above all, needs to help raise Parliament's capacity. I think it depends, first of all, on all of us, and most of all on the president of the National Assembly, because he's the first among us. It should be supported by the State Auditing Institution, it should be affected not to expect government assistance at all times. There was no reason for the State Auditing Institution not to rent, say, space, so that the work began, to recruit a large number of auditors and start fulfilling its function. When the budget comes, let's say, one of the basic functions of the state's audit is to provide us with a budget report and a final account. This will certainly help much more than any analysis we receive, that MPs have a clear insight into the way in which the state money is spent and the way the government delivers the proposal and how the government treats public revenues. Whether it's going to be in a year or two, it's very difficult to estimate at this point. I think both the National Assembly and the Committee on Finance, but also the President of the National Assembly, should do everything possible to get the State Audit Institute to meet the conditions defined by law as soon as possible. It's very difficult to do, it's a very serious procedure - a revision of the final account. Whether it will be possible for the State Audit Authority to do so alone or if some of the institutions of Western European countries with which we already have co-operation will need to assess an independent body such as the State Audit, but it will be of interest to all of us that they start working as soon as possible and that this pay column is much bigger than 28 million dinars. In this case, the government is absolutely right not to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6371	Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6372	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, my predecessor, Mr. Vice-President of the Rade Obradovic Assembly, was a member of the Finance Committee in the previous term. In one part, I can agree with Mr. Obradovic, the amendment by Jojic really cannot be achieved for the simple reason why the State Auditing Institution informed the Serbian Assembly, or MPs who were members of the Finance Committee, that for 2009, it sought smaller funding from the budget, for the simple reason that they had not arrived, were unable and had no business spending the funds they had allocated during 2008. However, Mr. Jojic touched a very important thing, which is the State Audit Institute. We just heard from Mr. Obradovic, especially Mr. Jojic, which is the importance of the State Auditing Institution. I have to repeat for who knows which time, Mrs Dragutinovic, and I am sure that you are also aware that the IMF, as one of the main critics, has referred here that we do not have the final account of the Republic of Serbia and, more importantly, we do not have the final accounts of public enterprises. We have listened here from a large number of MPs who have turned their attention to many irregularities in public enterprises, and we really think that the State Audit Institution, which, above all, this assembly must give full power and remain independent, would do a significant thing for the state itself if it did its job in a valid way, if it had room to audit the budget of the Republic of Serbia. However, I must again touch Mr. Radet Obradovic. I don't agree in that part that the government isn't responsible. It would be great if we lived in Sweden, where we visited and that the State Auditing Institution was absolutely independent and that it wasn't so dependent on the government when it comes to rooms, when it comes to some other things that could make it possible for it to work much easier. Unfortunately, we were witnesses when it comes to the Protector of Citizens and when it comes to the Trustee, especially the State Auditory Institution, that they were tenants in the Assembly, whether at the House of the National Assembly, in the old building of the Assembly of Yugoslavia or here in the National Assembly. I think the Government must help the State Audit Institute to get home, i.e. to get a place where it can do its job in the best possible way and do what we think is terribly important, and that is to get an audit of the final account and for all previous years, if that is certain, but we think it will be the most important for 2008. Mrs Dragutinović, I know that you know the importance of the State Auditing Institution and I hope that you will use your authority, as finance minister, to draw attention to your colleagues in the Government, and we from the opposition will make a full contribution to the State Auditing Institution working with full capacity, to be independent and to finally get an audit of the final accounts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that we can see how budgets are spent. Once again, I ask you, to take the opportunity to do everything in your power, yet you are executive and finance minister, to get the final accounts of public enterprises. I think that's what every MP here is interested in, and I believe that they are interested in citizens, and let's see how and how budgets are spent in public enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6373	Mr. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6374	I've applied for a replica of Mr. Marash's exposure. It wouldn't be good to understand that the DSS is defending the government and the LDP is attacking. I didn't think the State Audit Institute should rely on the government and not get any help, but they already had the help of some European funds while forming and they had the money provided from the budget. It's always the easiest not to do anything and wait for someone to solve your problem. After all, every institution needs to fight for its independence and should fight for its place. We in the Assembly, in discussions at the Committee on Finance, in conversations with the people of the State Audit, when we talked about real problems such as space, pointed out that since they have money from the budget, it is best to wait for the Government to solve the problem, they are an independent institution and have the support of parliament, let them choose to rent space and start doing their job. I think such institutions, if they wait for the government to solve their problem or if they wait for the Parliament to solve their problem tomorrow, because the Assembly formed them, and they are practically independent of their budgets and audits, are independent of the Assembly, if they bring themselves into such a position, then they will not work at full capacity. Just as in a situation where the Budgetary System Act is violated, then the President of Parliament must protect this institution. Thus, the State Auditing Institution must fight for its independence. It's the only way for institutions to function.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6375	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6376	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, obviously Mr. Obradovic and I didn't understand each other very well, perhaps I wasn't the most accurate. I respect your contribution you have made so far as Vice-President of the Assembly and as a member of the Finance Committee. I fully agree with you that the State Auditing Institution must stand by itself for its position. However, we live in a state of Serbia, in a country where everything depends on the government, as Mr Jojic just said, the Assembly brings budget rebalances, the Parliament of votes on the budget, but all this is the work of the government. We see it through examples that he cited, or through the acceptance of some amendments, etc., but now I don't talk much about it. I wanted to say that I understand what you said, and I agree with you that the State Auditing Institution must deal with itself, and in the state of Serbia it is very difficult. As a result, it is necessary to assist both the executive authorities and the help of the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6377	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Obradovic. Give a little appreciation for Mrs. Vojic-Markovic indeed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6378	I'm done. I agree with Mr. Marash, it's the government's fault.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6379	Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6380	Your Honor, Madam President, it is a full 14 hours' work, and maybe I can't really work very well. As I looked at earlier the draft budget rebalancing, in Section 7, in function 110, economic classification 417, where the State Audit Institute, under economic classification 417, is the item of the parliamentary supplement. It's not a small sum, 212.963, if I see correctly. I simply don't understand which parliamentary supplement and what it is related to when it comes to the State Auditing Institution. As far as I know, the only one who can have a parliamentary allowance, and the simple name says, are MPs, so this resignation is not entirely clear to me. Since my colleagues in the opposition have stated that many items stand here, and that there are simply no dedicated institutions, I would like to get a heads-up on what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6381	Thank you. Mr. Shormaz. By amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6382	Short. I don't expect and I think it works a little bit and naively that we expect this government to help the State Audit Office. And given how they work and how they behave all the time, they're interested in the fact that this institution doesn't work and doesn't work. Again, I say, you mentioned Sweden, I mentioned earlier, and I said that in Poland is called a control committee. He's got 3,000 employees. Indeed, they control all local public enterprises, everything that has to do with the budget, not just the state, with them and the regions, because thank God smart people so they decentralised Poland, unlike we who did not decentralised Serbia and did not accept the DSS proposal for Serbia's regionalisation. Now some DS lawyers are showing up and talking about Serbia's regionalisation and decentralisation. Em all institutions that have to do with the public spending of that commission, which is for control, and it controls. For example, the money that would be needed if not for wages or something, in that visit I learned that seminars, annual conventions of all state institutions, audit committees for control and everything else are held. We're nowhere to be found, simply in the whole Europe that we're scolding, no one even thinks we have a state audit institution at all. I asked these questions on purpose, and people said, as far as we know, you don't have it yet, which is a big mistake. If we wait for a new government that doesn't keep its promises, which doesn't raise pensions as promised, which doesn't bring new jobs, which doesn't respond in time to problems that are coming because of the global crisis, so it accuses the opposition of spreading panic, and then panicically makes suggestions even bigger than the opposition said it should, when it only realizes after a few days what's actually going on in our banking system. We can't expect him to help here either. That is why we need to be very careful in the next period and we should start, I propose to all MPs, I know that we from the DSS will very carefully welcome the next draft law on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We must never again allow the government to propose a budget for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that is not a European standard. That's what the National Assembly has to do on its own. The government just has to put it in the budget. So is the State Audit Office. Then we come to what my colleague Obradovic said, they have to fight for it and force themselves, we enable them, and they, gentlemen, to start working. But they must have the opportunity to propose the budget themselves and the government should have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6383	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, section 7, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1) and (3). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, section 9, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 26(1) and (3). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, sections 9 and 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6384	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my neighborhood, who celebrates St. Luke or even the cross of glory, at this time they call the housewife, congratulate the glory of baptism and seek a piece of bread, symbolically to have dinner, so I wish a pleasant dinner to all those who celebrate the glory of Christ and to all the guests who are at their friends at the baptismal glory of St. Luke. As for the amendment submitted by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic, I generally support all those amendments that set out the item to cut some budget item. What's the reason? The reason is simple, because it is necessary to reduce this wasteful budget and reduce resources, especially after amendments such as the amendment of Jadranka Vukovica, etc., because these funds can be used in a much better and smarter way. As for the government's conclusion and government's decision, yes, that's all that has to be done. I would ask one question: then why do not the conclusions of the government that this government is making be realized? In fact, we have an example of not fulfilling the government's request No 05 of 30.8.07 and 351-53, 2007/1 of 7.9.2007. I mean, here's the problem, so I don't convince you, I'll read it. With the problem of water supplying Kosovo Mitrovica North and Zvecan, all the authorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia are familiar, which is why I will continue to repeat only basics. The problem of water supplying this part of Kosovo and Metohija is evident. Since June 1999, i.e. from the moment international forces entered this area of drinking water factories located on the south side of the city, Shipara has been under control. We have no access or control over the work of this facility, since then Albanians in the south control the complete distribution of drinking water and south of the Ibar River. Given that the north side receives water from the south, it is the Shiptari who manages the quantity of drinking water production, and thus the quantity delivered to the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica and Zvečina. Even then, a decision was made by Shipara, along with UNMIK, that the northern part of the drinking water was delivered only during the day from 6 to 20 hours. Three years ago this schedule was changed to our damage, so it was determined that the amount of water to be delivered was reduced, so that according to the northern part of the water was delivered from six to 22.00 and the second day from six to 19.00 hours. In the last month, we've noticed that the water is further shut down, and in the course of the day, three to four hours a day. Based on this, I think you can understand the problem of water supplying this part of Kosovo and Metohija, which has some 40,000 citizens living on. This is exactly what it shows, when I want to talk to you about citizens and their problems, you just talk about yourself and you don't care about the pain of the citizens, you're just interested in how these budget items are deployed according to what you say, a compromise of political parties participating in power. Namely, this is an unimaginable situation, nine years from the arrival of the international mission in Kosovo and Metohija, there are no conditions for the use of drinking water in the municipalities of Zvecan and Kosovo Mitrovica. The government has twice come to the conclusion that it will create the water line, but the realisation of the pipeline is gone. No, apparently for reasons of lack of funds. That is why I support all the amendments that suggest that the cuts in the items to replace them and create the means that these conclusions, which the government made twice last year, finally enter into the 2009 budget as an item, in order to get 40,000 citizens of northern Kosovo to drink water that it can use 24 hours a day. On the other hand, I'd like to introduce you that the government is working to harm local self-government in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Namely, I received two letters, one from the Municipality of Urosec, the other from the Municipality of Orahovac, so I'll read them to you. ''In view of the fact that legitimate elections have been held in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija in accordance with the Law on Local Elections, on the basis of which all the authorities of the municipality have been elected, and since the functioning of the municipality as a territorial unit, on the one hand, as well as socio-political organisations, funds are needed, and as you well know, Kosovo and Metohija's territory has been placed under international administration and since then all the revenues of the municipality in one way and the other have become the revenues of other municipalities located outside the administrative borders of Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the revenues of other bodies, and especially the republican authorities, such as the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Finance. The main sources of income of the municipality entering the budget of the municipality are: fees for the use of construction land, fees for issuing copies from the home book of the married, born and dead, taxes on the earnings of citizens, taxes on registration of motor vehicles, roadways, fees paid for the transfer of absolute rights and other revenues belonging to the municipality under the law. However, all the above-mentioned revenues are the revenues of other municipalities, bodies and organisations, and not of our municipalities, and in particular we would like to indicate the fees paid by the citizens for the copies of the books, based on the amendment and addition of the Law on Parent Books No 57/2003, which, on this basis, belong to the municipality of Leskovac, as stated in the law. In order for the municipality to function more effectively, we ask you to implement the role and trust entrusted to you by the people and to launch a decision-making initiative in the form of a legal or sublegal solution in order to return those revenues to our municipality. We ask you to take measures and activities to, in cooperation with other parliamentary clubs, propose to the Serbian Government the proposed decision, so that those revenues are returned to our municipality, that the government in co-operation with the respective ministries, such as the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice, the revenues they have based on the collection of administrative fees, such as the tax on the issue of birth certificates, then the income tax on citizens on any basis, taxes on motor vehicles registration, taxes on the basis of the transfer of absolute rights, are returned to the Municipality of Urosevic and recorded in the budget as revenues of the municipality. Please consider this request to be a need for citizens and, if you need closer information, let us know in writing. In the hope that you will take all measures and activities with regard to our request and inform our municipality about this, because if these advances do not return to the municipality we will continue to be directly users of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. '' In Gracanica, on 20.10.2008, President of the Municipality of Urosevic Nenad Petkovic. And another letter from the Orahovec municipality, it's the same content, please listen. Signed by Orahovac municipality President Milorad Soric. Otherwise, let me remind you, the head of the Orahovac municipality is a member of the SPS, and the president of the Urosevic municipality is a member of the SRS. These problems are not only plagued by the municipalities of Urosevic and Orahovac, but are plagued by all the municipalities located in KIM, both in Vučitrn and Obilić, Kosovo Polje, Pristina, Gjilane, Vitin, Kosovo Kamenica, Novo Brdo, Strpce, Peć, East etc. That's why I took this out, in order to meet the Ministry of Finance that there are one specific funds belonging to the municipality, like in this case in Uroševec, and they go in the register of the municipality of Leskovac, or the municipality of Orahovac, and they go in the case of the municipality of Kruševac, and I don't count any further. To move those funds back to their home communities, so that they have a share of the funds, not to be total addicts of the Republic of Serbia's budget, because we see that you have no mercy for these people. You don't want to help them, you leave them for mercy, and they have to get along as well as they can. Therefore, with full right, they demand that what belongs to these municipalities be returned to them so that they may exercise that authority, i.e. to serve as citizens and help citizens realize something. Another appeal, that out of these funds that are reduced in the budget items, you plan for 2009 to enter the budget of the construction of the water line for the northern part of KIM, so that 40,000 citizens can drink drinking water and at any time bathe, use services, and not that all these obligations work only during the day seven to seven. Nine years is a very long time. I guess here in Belgrade, if there were no water for nine days, there would be panic, it would be chaos, and then you can assume that the Serb people in Kosovo live if there was no water for nine years, constantly from seven in the morning. That is why another appeal to find these necessary, minimum resources to make that water line and to allow 40,000 citizens in the north of KiM to live normally, as all people in the normal world live. Since we are very rich in water down in our territory, to own the Ibar River, to own Lake "Gazivod", it is no problem to supply water, we live in no desert, nor in any Sahara, so we have to buy or transport water for a very long time. We have all these sources, we just need a little bit of understanding from the government of the Republic of Serbia to make an additional effort and that these conclusions, which she made on two occasions, are realized to allow decent lives for citizens in the north of KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-31-0.u6385	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Allow me to thank Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Miljkovic and, of course, all of you for your work and endurance. We agreed not to work Saturday, but we still worked 10 minutes on Saturday. We'll continue our work Monday at 10:00.
