ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5542	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, we are discussing budget rebalancing for 2008 relatively late today. As we all know, the two last budgets, for 2007 and 2008, were adopted in relatively, we can say, extraordinary circumstances: in 2007 because of the known events surrounding the formation of the government in summer, and in 2008, the budget had a rather forced character, it was conditioned by acquired rights and obligations already largely defined at the end of 2006. In this regard, the first conclusion regarding the 2007 and 2008 budget is that it is a matter of emphasis on social budgets. My colleague Buha said it was a socially irresponsible government, but I think quite the opposite: because of the coercion, both budgets had a prominent social character. Of the 650 billion dinars of expenditure in the narrow budget, over 500 billion are exclusively social contributions. When that's explained, we have at this point that the expenses for employees are about 178 billion dinars. Another social component, economic subsidies - 47 billion. The third social component, exclusively social, which is the most difficult for the state of Serbia, social funds transfers -- 178.68 billion. Practically, because the PIO fund is as inherited as it is, without its capital, without enough of its original income, we are now forced to finance 34 percent of the PIO revenue from the budget, so in fact, the Republic of Serbia's budget is a reserve PIO fund as soon as it gives one-third. The fourth component, exclusively the social component, is social protection - 79.15 billion. In all, we are in a situation that our budget in the current economic times has a prominent social character, about 500 billion out of 650 billion dinars. This means that the space for the development component is necessarily narrowed down because of the overall economic position that exists. We have about 40 billion dinars for the NIP. It will probably be the same in the following year, but when it is observed in the long term, if it is the real development of our balance sheet, our budget, the development of the economy, is going towards the development component in total, and the social decline, that means that our economy will have more space for what's most important, which is the development of entrepreneurship, attracting foreign investment, etc. At this point, the biggest problem of our economy, at which both the government and most analysts agree, is a major external trade deficit. The external trade deficit and current payment deficits currently exceed 20% of the gross social product. So, the budget deficit, of 3.5 billion in 2003, is likely to reach eight billion euros this year, nearly 25% of GDP. That's warning. In this sense, the government's macroeconomic policy, what we expect, which is expected by the real sector, is heading right towards improving the position of net exporters, large exporters, to attract foreign investments that will be able to compete equally on the world market and thus to gradually reduce the budget external trade deficit. This is highlighted in macroeconomic policy, but we propose that in the new budget, the 2009 budget, which will be autonomously composed of one stable government, which has four years to run macroeconomic policy, the real sector will be treated more adequately both in the direction of infrastructure development and in the direction of subsidies. In that sense, my concrete proposals would be the next, related to macroeconomic policy and to the structure of the 2009 budget positions. First, daily dialogue with the real sector needs to be established urgently. The government formed a working group for permanent correspondence with the real sector, with the economy, several meetings were held; a continuous communication with exporters began last year, but it was likely due to politics, due to the elections, that communication was quite interrupted. Daily communication with net exporters and with the real sector is the first point. The government has begun, working groups are formed, this communication is particularly necessary, it is imperative if it is known that a major financial crisis, which will certainly touch Serbia, will have a negative impact on Serbia's economy, on Serbia's real sector by reducing real demand on the world market. In this sense, it is essential that the Chamber of Commerce and Government work together, in a complementary way, to find new markets. We must recognise the existence of a large group, the BRIK Group (Brasil, Russia, India, China) and other markets that are less infected by the major economic crisis. The Chamber of Commerce and Government and macroeconomic policy must find alternative solutions in this direction, as it is obvious that the EU market and market in America will feel a lack of demand for products from Serbia's real sector. Secondly, we propose that a split in the framework of the 2009 budget should be found necessary within the framework of net exporters' subsidies and that a credit line be established through the Development Fund, which would preferably serve to lend to net exporters. This year we had start-up loans. They really helped. 2.7 billion of these loans were distributed to beginners, from 10 to 30,000 euros, but what is more important, which gives a multiplier effect in the economy, these are loans to large systems, large net exporters. A large net exporter who has achieved a net income of 10, 20, 30m euros can not survive with loans of 12 or 10%, now costing a six-month Eurobor plus a margin, or a 4% margin. The state must intervene, instead of other positions of the state must form one credit line that will go through the Development Fund, through which net exporters, or large projects, will be financed. The third line, which will be painful because there is no space, but it has to be found, is a line through the Development Fund for larger subsidies to undeveloped areas. We need to secure interest rates, such as start-up loans, on the interest of these loans from 1% to 3% for projects in undeveloped areas. This line through the Development Fund, which is really the most efficient institution in our public sector, I can guarantee it from my experience... Through the Development Fund, we have a chance to affirm a special credit line for undeveloped areas, to strengthen, even to reduce funds for start-up loans or micro-employment, because in two or three years we filled those segments with loans. Several billion dinars within 700 or 800 billion dinars of budget expenditure in 2009, at least a dozen, must be found for undeveloped areas and for funding export programmes under preferential conditions. In that sense, we will admit one fact, it would be unforgivable if we didn't see it, which is that there is a major economic crisis here and that although we are small, even though we are protected in the banking sector, as far as the real sector is concerned, the effects of this crisis will certainly have to be tolerated. In that sense, I think that by forming a working group, with daily contacts with the real sector has started, but that even more has to communicate daily and find concrete measures how to make our economy, which is in a difficult position anyway, which is recording the deficit, more equally competing on the world market and how to find alternative markets to reduce that deficit. In the end, a personal impression, I was misread by the Finance Committee, that I said - the time had come for us to have an economy over politics. I didn't say that. I said -- the time has come for our political life at the head of the state, i.e. executive government to be a doctor of the economy, and the head of public finances is a professor of economics. I really think the time has come when, at least in formal quality, we have come into a situation where economists, those who know what the economy is, what banking is, lead the country. In that sense, at least a moderate optimist should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5543	According to the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Milica Vojić-Markovic, and then Mr. Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5544	Madam President, Your Honor, Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with Article 225 and Article 226 because it is very important for me as an MP to receive some information that is important for the further course of this debate, but also for my work as an MP. In the latest issue of the "Economist" list, two very interesting interviews came out: one with Mr Dinkic, the other with Mr Krkobic, Deputy Prime Minister. In those two interviews, we have so many opposing facts about the same things. We heard from Madam Minister on Friday that there are 490,000 in Serbia, in fact, she did not say the right information, that is 6.6%, people who are poor, according to data from October 2007, and statistics say there are already 10% in October this year, given the gas, telephone and all other gatherings. Statistics also mention some 50 euros, that it has cost every family so much since the day the government was created, in the first 100 days of the government; so the government has cost every family in Serbia 50 euros when it comes to these gatherings. So, I call on this interview in which Mr. Krkobibic says he will not give up his proposal to increase the average pension to 70% of the average earnings in Serbia and that he was in no way persuaded by the arguments brought by the prominent economists from our country, the IMF, that he was not persuaded by ministers who claim otherwise and who sit with him in the government. Furthermore, the gentleman says that it cannot be saved only on pensions, as savings are possible in other items in the budget. The Democratic Party of Serbia, as a responsible opposition party, cannot, of course, be against 1.6 million pensioners in this country, the largest number of which has exactly that minimum pension of 9,715 dinars, and it is very important for us to get the arguments of Mr. Krkobibic, which is nowhere to be seen as arguments but just talking about the 70% increase. It is very important for us that Mr. Krkobbiæ tells us what are the items on which savings are possible in the budget, because it is very interesting for this country, because its monetary policy is threatened, because its stability is compromised, and at the same time we have information that most pensioners are also at risk. So if we can find a compromise between all of this, it is very important that we know that this compromise is possible and it is very important that we get an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5545	National MP Aleksandar Pejcic, followed by Mr Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5546	Dear President, esteemed colleagues, I report to members 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. One procedural question. We just heard from the chairman that the cocktail will be at 1:30. We MPs asked a week ago to suspend the work of parliament when the boards of industry and finance met. You then did not accept it, in terms of the efficiency of Parliament's work, so now I ask you if you will interrupt Parliament's work at 13.30 for that cocktail? These days, however, the opposition has been powering to obstruct parliament's work. At this point, however, I am not sure that the opposition is obstructing parliament's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5547	Mr. Pejcic, you know that during work we have a 60-minute break. I've determined that this break starts today at 1:30, that was the deal, that all those here in the Assembly who follow our work, first of all, that we MPs are on that cocktail, but if you insist we move that time and make that 60 minutes later, I don't mind. It's just, in order to take away the usual break from the one that would be a candlestick, about 150 years from the adoption of the first Law on the Assembly, I thought it was also a symbolic shift in terms of some sign of that type. So we don't interrupt the work of the Assembly, we just have a break that starts at 1:30 and I'm calling you back for a cocktail. Mr. Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5548	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, perhaps I should have answered at first, but I don't think it's a problem that I've come forward now, given that the previous discussion of this law pointed to a problem faced by the National Assembly. What's this about? We have been witnessing for days, months, not to say some longer period of time, the fact that the National Assembly is not being submitted. Yesterday, there was a meeting at the Sava Center, organised by a list of the founders, owned by one of the current Deputy Prime Ministers, and there was a complete government. Maybe he wasn't one of the members of the government who had fame or had an obligation, etc. It doesn't matter about this story. The impression is that a session of the National Assembly or the cabinet session was held at the summit of the list "Economist". Why don't the members of the government take these seats here while it's a session of the National Assembly, as they talk about budget rebalancing and one by one go out for a pay phone and explain what they have to say about each item being discussed in the National Assembly? That's how they disabling the National Assembly. The National Assembly doesn't matter. It's about the Economist. Why? Because the Americans and the English said: "Don't go there, there will be radicals to expose you, so the public will see what you are and who you are, and this way we'll stop the SRS, and you'll be there when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, and when it comes to the budget and when it comes to the UN tribunal." So political life must not be in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that the National Assembly must make a decision, if anything, to bring in members of the government. Why? Let Mr Djelic come out and explain what he explained at the summit of these big newspapers. Have them report that information here. Have Mirko Cvetkovic come and explain the same thing. Look, we've been talking for a month about a difficult financial situation, a financial crisis in the world. They don't want to talk about it in the National Assembly, but they're going to the Sava Center, and they're very sorry about it, TV broadcasts on the American warrant, we listen to "The Voice of America" here some time, though rarely, and every time, less and less. Everything's irregular, in my opinion. Let the whole government show up here and let that one come, what these friends of mine from Murten say, "Where's Cvetko? "... Laugh you, Cvetko and Boris Tadic are in that code. Someone's got to explain. The whole world is shaking, shaking, everyone wants to get out of this crisis, there are all kinds of ways. That's what we're discussing, the story. We don't talk in the assembly. Why is someone disabling us? Mr. Krasic, you've been talking for 30 seconds. ) Just so you know, there are 60 and some amendments, 15 minutes per amendment, at least three or four opposition parties. You'll see when you finish this session and this part of the agenda. The sooner the government comes here to file a report.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5549	In this agenda, we have an extraordinary and essential, not just a formal, competent representative of the government. I think Minister Diana Dragutinovic is indeed someone who can answer all the potentially controversial issues related to the agenda. Mrs. Elena Christmas-Talian's Rules of Procedure appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Krasic, you're wasting my time, and Tomislav Nikolic with a group of citizens, it's a matter for the competent authorities, very important -- to what extent does foreign ambassadors and foreign intelligence become involved in political life in Serbia? How many foreign supervisors and advisors are defiling through the Republic Government? There are numerous obvious examples that point to direct political influence and interference, above all, the American and British ambassadors. One of such obvious and scandalous examples is the latest interview by US Ambassador Cameron Manter who published "Evening News" on Saturday. Gaulajer Manter sits in the middle of Belgrade and boasts that he is putting pressure on countries that have not recognised independence to do so as soon as possible. He explicitly confirms US Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Fried's statement on the deployment of Eulex, whose part became the US in the meantime. The statement says EULEX is a key element for Kosovo's supervised independence. The manter openly opposes the UN resolution and checks the legality of Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence before the International Court and advises Serbia that it should focus on the European future, not on Kosovo, because it is not useful, because they have already made it so clear that there is no EU entry until Serbia recognises an independent Kosovo. After all this, absolutely none of the state authorities and state officials are responding. The effect of these influences is confirmed both by Solana and De Kermabon's statement that the deployment of EULEX was agreed with Belgrade in December, a confirmation of what the SRS has long claimed, which is that state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija has changed. In that interview, Manter was not saving words to praise Tomislav Nikolic, because he finally understood and took steps towards this US version of Serbia's European future that implies recognition of Kosovo's independence, so Manter is very pleased, as Nikolic has interrupted all ties with Vojislav Seselj. Another obvious example of American and British direct influence is reflected in the media sphere. Most of the media, and those regimeally, are under absolute control of America and Britain. That's the key reason the SRS is under a full media blockade. This is the key reason that media favorites are now Manter's main advances, Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic. So the question is, to what extent are the state, the state authorities and the media controlled and influenced by the foreign factor, and above all America and Britain? We don't need information whether Nikolic's advances are under the influence of America... (President: Will you finish, please, speak 35 seconds longer. )......................................................................................................... We know that for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5551	The word has the People's MP Mrs Natasa Micic, and then Mr Dejan Mirovic instead of Mr Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another budget law in a row over the last five years that has confirmed and deepened the separation of society from the state, as if the state itself is the goal, in which the worst possible combination -- too expensive and unable to reform society, to deal with corruption, with the monopoly, and even to protect citizens. Not only that, but even self-abuse them, if nothing else, then in election campaigns. The budget rebalance is also another one in a row over the past five years that has not been designed on the basis of economic parameters, but rather on the basis of political, better said, party promises. Now I don't see why you're avoiding saying it here, unless the fulfillment of these promises isn't only partly, I mean pensions 10%, apparently, because 10% considering all the purchases and inflation won't do much to help pensioners, but also unfairly, because those who have a pension of 100,000 dinars will get a whole pension of those who have 10,000 pensions, and you'll get a raise of just 1,000 dinars. I'd like to remain here on Madam Minister's claims that this budget rebalance, one, is not wasteful and, two, that the figures speak better than words. I ask the question, how is it not wasteful when in government only the Prime Minister's office, vice president and follow-up services increased their expenditure by 5.2%? Isn't that wasteful? Secondly, I would like to say something commendable for this institution, which is that the National Assembly set an example and reduced costs. I'm saying this because of citizens who have a grudge at the National Assembly, I think it's good to know that the National Assembly has reduced its costs by 210 billion, or 5%, and thus set an example. Why didn't the government set an example? Why the prime minister's cabinet has a budget of 53m, and four vice-presidents' cabinets have 150m budgets, which means as three prime ministers; in fact, this small poor country has such expenditures as if it has four prime ministers. In doing so, find me in comparable political systems where it exists that for the same portfolio there are two functions, the vice-president of the government for economic development, that is, economic and regional development and minister for the same portfolio. Well, then there's a budget of 37 billion for the Ministry and a special budget of 30 million dinars for the vice president's office. That 30 million is twice the budget the Council has to fight corruption. It's only $15 million. Furthermore, and also said by Mrs Pesic, can this state allow itself and is it wasteful that we have another double budget within one budget, which is the NIP Ministry, which has made the biggest cost increase by 27%? Madam Minister, here, the figures speak best, and I hope you will answer these questions for me. Next, the minister said everything is according to the rules of economic science. I'm telling you that even under the rule of law, a man of business is considered a man, a minister with six secretary of state, 11 assistants and 13 secretaries, but that doesn't mean it's not wasteful. So, perhaps by the rules of economic science it's allowed to have as much as by the rules of law, but in any case, it's about waste and luxury. Finally, I would like to add that, let's say, the Ministry of Kosovo has a budget of 6 billion, which is 50% more than all the costs of the National Assembly. In addition, the state allocates 42 billion more to Kosovo's public debt for double salaries of people working in Kosovo. Come on, let's get this straight, then the question is, why are we being put into a situation where we've been watching TV feeds for days... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Kosovo Serbs have no heating, so they are promised that someone will get them two metres of cubic, I don't know. That, of course, is not good. I'm finishing up, and now I'm gonna figure it out. Because of all this, and above all because it is not about reducing public spending, nor the reform course of this rebalancing, because this rebalancing will impact negatively on the 2009 budget, LDP will not vote for this rebalance. We believe that the state has enough problems of its own without a global financial crisis, although it has been presented to us... One of the same ministers, I suppose, because he has so many advisors, even told us that it was good, according to the old, good Cosic -- the lag behind is our advantage, to tell us yesterday that it would have a devastating effect on us and cause a fall in economic growth, which he is essentially in charge of. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5553	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have received the resignation of Miloljub Albianic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, which found that by resigning the case referred to in Article 88(2) of Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 3 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that before the end of time he was elected MP Miloljub Albianic, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia -- Boris Tadic. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic, Mr Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5554	Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, I do not think that a member of our 27th Rules of Procedure gives you such authority, and in view of the serious objections and serious violations of the Rules of Procedure, that you go from some two or three rhetorical sentences, which essentially mean nothing, but simply have to die public and put to sleep the MPs. The situation is far more difficult than it seems to you. It is impossible for MPs to learn about current issues from political life through television, newspapers, the Internet or otherwise. That's unacceptable. This is where the government is needed, this is where ministers are needed, as some interpreters want, whether these are places for the government, whether these are the indictees' benches, we have to charge them with this situation in the state. I'm just distracting you how far it's gone. The Hague tribunal no longer has the money to pay for the prosecution's travels, but there is Rasim Ljajic. Rasim Ljajic is the largest government in this country, he is the longest in power. Since 2000, everyone has changed, Rasim Ljajic has not changed. We have a situation where in the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, there's more pictures of Carla del Ponte; there's no picture of Cvetkova, the President of the Republic, or I don't know who, but the picture of Carla del Ponte hangs there. They're putting you to sleep. Why? To calm the people, turkey dots don't apply, and then these media are moving to force these traitorous parties, etc. I agree with you, you've made some coalition with G 17 plus, with the SPS. I agree with you, too, you've made with New Serbia and with some things... We stayed with our old coalition partner, with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We share fate with them. As we are hampered by the media, so are the citizens of Serbia who are being held back by the media, they cannot know the truth. Do you want me from this pay phone all the time calling on citizens not to read the paper, not to watch TV, not to follow what the press is saying? If you want it, we can do it, it's no problem at all. We'll go to the myths to explain what's going on. But this kind of not only media blockade, but disabling the public in Serbia... Look, please, environmental logs, information emissions, all other information is given in relation to what they have the opportunity to hear from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They should be in mild ignorance and enjoy the appearance of their ministers, tycoons, etc. No, the government should be here on the indictee's bench that I charge them, that these MPs accuse them, but for God's sakes, and some MPs on this side to accuse them, because it's simply impossible for the two ministers to make different statements and you to say - freedom of mind, we push on, turkey dots don't apply, the lady is authorized. Well, she's not authorized them to reconcile, she's in charge of the numbers, as she told us a few days ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5555	Mr. Krasic, you're re-energizing the same thing, only in another way. The request is that the government has its representatives here so we can talk. I just gave an answer to that remark of yours, and now I'd just like to ask you not to share MPs in some two groups, some of which are in league with the citizens. Behind each MP is the exact same number of our citizens, fifteen thousand, all of us in coalition with the citizens who sent us here, not just the SRS. I think it's an artificial division that we all have some kind of coalition, except for the Serbian Radical Party, when it comes to Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5556	Madam President, Article 27. Rules of Procedure. I think you, the chairman of this assembly, are violating this Article 27, violating the Constitution and all the laws of this country. You're doing the same thing you did in May and June, mostly in June, which is why we rebelled. You simply proceed with your reckless practice, which you must react to. Yesterday your interview was published in "Evening News" in which you said (if it is true, and if it is not then you will have to "Evening News" do the same to deny, that this paper would have to publish) that a working group was formed for the construction of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Then during the day, and you weren't here all day, I know you didn't, because I checked it out, you sent it with that date, yesterday's, the MP clubs and the DSS article that you're warning us about, and you're giving us some ultimatum to deliver the name of the membership representative in that working group for the making of the Rules of Procedure by nine o'clock this morning. I don't know if I need to repeat what I've said so far and if you even understand what you've done. If you continue to act this way, in this way to lead the National Assembly, not only past the provisions of Article 27 and the powers that arise from it, but by inventing for yourself some powers that are nowhere to be found, nor can they be found in the Rules of Procedure, nor in the Constitution, but they come down to arbitrarily and arbitrary behaviour, which in your case there is quite and what we will talk about in the coming days, because, as far as I can see, they will create conditions, then I simply cannot believe that such a person, after all that was in June and August, can still sit at the seat of the President of the National Assembly. Of course, you'll be sitting there because it's the will of the ruling majority, but I can't believe what drove you to allow someone to put your faxicle on the signature, to put yesterday's date, without your presence, and to send letters to MPs for something you've already announced in the paper that it's a done deal. It's not the first time you've done that; when we're having meetings with the heads of parliament, you first announce to the press and to all the media that this meeting is going to happen, and then you formally invite us to those meetings. That's when I told you, and now I publicly repeat that at no meeting of the heads of Parliament, I will not go to that meeting, for an appointment and a topic that will be at the meeting I will find out from the papers or through the media before I know from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5557	Mr. Aligrudic, if you were more often in the Assembly, you'd probably know exactly what the dynamics of forming groups were about bringing... So you would know exactly the order of events and you wouldn't be surprised at what you heard or read in the paper. On October 22nd, I sent an application to all the presidents of the parliamentary groups, in fact, and I asked that each member of parliament should take one of its MPs to form a group to work on the Law on the Assembly. Then, in a meeting with the heads of parliament's groups, we agreed that it would be celibate that the same group, either extended or slightly modified, is already starting to analyse the Rules of Procedure, and only the request has been sent. Everything happened last week, not yesterday. You also have documents that talk about it. I don't think any MP should be informed from the papers, especially not about events from the Assembly; simply, this is one agreement we made a week ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5558	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 27. I have to join my colleagues who spoke before me, and in the context that it is really necessary for us to see Prime Minister Cvetkovic and other Serbian government ministers here. The situation in which the state and the law we're discussing, so budget rebalance, are so important to all the citizens of this country that it's totally unacceptable for the government to be able to see... I'm sorry if you can communicate when I'm done. So it's totally unacceptable that we can see members of the government at a rally at the Sava Center, but we can't see them in the Assembly. I have to ask you, by what member of the Rules of Procedure, by what law, by what common sense are you authorized to judge whether it is enough for the budget rebalancing to sit here just the finance minister? With all due respect to Mrs Dragutinović and the work she's done so far and who's doing it, she's doing as much as she can and the best she wants, but who are you to decide if it's enough for her to be there? We have just heard from the Democratic Party of Serbia MP Mrs. Vojic-Markovic that for her, it is a big problem that one Deputy Prime Minister is saying one thing and the other vice president is saying something else. We want it to be clear to us, we want it to be clear to the citizens of Serbia, whether there is money to increase pensions, why there is no or whether it will be 70% or not, how much it burdens the state. It's something very important we want to know. Secondly, Deputy Prime Minister Djelic said the assembly is a black hole in European integration. Indeed, he must be present here to explain to us, the man was Deputy Prime Minister and in the last government, where are the European laws he sent us, or what is the date when he sent them to the Assembly? So he's constantly transferring to the Serbian Parliament to hold something back. It's the government. We have a prime minister... I really thought that from the last one... But what we heard from the prime minister the other night -- that a man gets information from the media, that he learns from the media that prices in Serbia are higher... So, what does he do? Does he consider his job to be going shopping mall, but at the opening, to another country, or is it his interest to make sure that Serbian citizens live better? If it's his interest to make sure that the citizens live better, then he needs to know firsthand about the prices, to find out where this country goes from those who sit with him in the government, not to inform the media. I want the Prime Minister here. I want the Minister here. Indeed, you must do everything possible to get another one of them, first of all the prime minister. Please don't make any conclusions about who's here... In fact, you are not authorized to evaluate, by one, beginning with your function, the second, starting with your professional education, whether it is enough for Mrs Dragutinovic here to talk to us about budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5559	Mr. Maras, I was just interpreting it, and now I'm going to read 194: "The right and duty of the government to represent it in the National Assembly when considering all the issues in its jurisdiction has the Prime Minister. The government determines the members of the Government who represent it on certain issues on the agenda of the National Assembly session, or session of its committee. "That is, therefore, Article 194. I simply interpreted that the government had determined who it thought would be competent at this point, so I'm not competent to determine the competence of a member of the government, that's what the government does. In any case, the Government will be informed of your suggestions, requests and objections and in case it considers it necessary for any of the ministers, vice presidents or prime ministers to come, and in accordance with this article, it will. Such demands were held Friday at a meeting and the government was informed about it. So her position is, I only interpreted it in accordance with Article 194, that according to this point, it's the government's assessment, or the Prime Minister's assessment, Mrs. Minister is competent. Mr. Aligrudic has a word. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5560	Madam President, when you answer to the MP for his remarks regarding the Rules of Procedure, there is no need to use offensive terms. You insulted me when you just insinuated my absence in the National Assembly, claiming the following - if I were more often, I'd know something. You know how, in this National Assembly every day, at every working time, I've never been left behind because of my private affairs or my illness, and when I'm physically not in this Parliament, I'm not because I'm doing parliamentary work elsewhere, in accordance with the resolution of this National Assembly, which she brought and which you later signed in line with the previous solutions of the National Assembly, which you all know very well about. So, as you treated me a little bit, it's not only rude and rude, it's ultra-unskilled, because this is what people are looking at, this TV feed, and you want to suggest that I don't work in this National Assembly. Right? Is that what you're saying? I'd like to ask you in return, you probably have an explanation for where you were yesterday all day? Yesterday, on Monday, on the first day of work in a week, is this National Assembly your workplace or not? You probably have an explanation for that, you probably went somewhere official, and I'd like to hear it, and I'd be very pleased to hear it. I take it that you weren't physically in parliament that day, yesterday, you were doing the jobs of the National Assembly president somewhere. At least I can be so kind to you to assume it, not to insinuate that your absence from parliament yesterday was because you "caught the curve". You don't have the right to do this to any MP, especially you as president of the National Assembly. It's a shame. This only increases the reasons why you should never sit in that place again, but unfortunately, we'll look like we'll wait a little longer. The other thing is, I haven't had a moment to tell you, you're also making unthinkable things. You're planning a cocktail today in half two, about 150 years from the adoption of the first Law on the National Assembly, you know when -- at a time when Serbia was a principal, when the Law on the National Assembly served a completely different purpose, when the Law on the National Assembly was meant to stop, as a kind of constitutional dam, the will of someone outside parliament, outside of the national representatives. Probably the reason why the Law on the National Assembly can't be identical today, but whatever it is, from where you get the idea that in half two hours, working hours, when it's usually not the time to take a break, which is usually determined between 14 and 15 hours, you set up a cocktail at the National Assembly for this occasion. Instead of devoting yourself to work and trying, with your conduct above all, that this assembly is functioning normally, that the laws are being adopted, not that you are challenging the MPs to replicas, that you are causing the need to appear after the injury of the Rules of Procedure, to interpret and comment on your behavior, which is quite unworthy of this home, you are still making up cocktails to which you invite MPs in half two such cases. Believe me, the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia won't come to that cocktail of yours in half two because we think it's inappropriate and it's really too high at a time like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5561	Ms. Natasa Jovanovic first, then Mr. Krasic, then Mr. Shami, and Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5562	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I am using the possibility by the members of Rules of Procedure 225 and 226 to ask a very important question, and also to take advantage of Mrs Dragutinovic's presence. Namely, there is a major problem in the city of Arangelovac because of the fact that the robbery privatisation started in 2001 in Serbia. We're facing the fact, I don't know if you fellow MPs know it, that the Arab Shamota is not yet privatized. There have been various projects, plans to privatise one of the most famous brick and stove factories in our country. Of course, you all understand that this factory once had good results on the market of the former state and the whole of Europe. However, we are faced, Madam Minister, with the fact that workers in the course of this week, if the Privatisation Agency finally does not publish a public call for the purchase of "Shamota", and here I have two letters on the intentions of two interested parties, will be forced to come to Belgrade and start protests in front of the Serbian government, in front of the Privatisation Agency and in front of one in a series of hohstappler houses that have appeared on the Serbian market and are doing the job for a big commission, for big money, and do not do it properly. It is obvious that this consulting house, which you are familiar with, Mrs Dragutinović, "Finex", has disavowed workers and the privatisation process "Shamota" back three years. Just when it comes to some final alleged deal, when they come and mostly... Imagine now the paradox that workers must defend themselves: the union organises talks with the Privatisation Agency and a certain Ljubic Aleksandar, director of the tendering centre, promised at the last meeting of workers that a public call would be called by half September. The way things are now and the situation is absolutely clear, because most of the social programme was completed by 2007, and it was returned to the budget of more than 20 million dinars, so the workers got some change, just enough that they could settle the part they were on the street, or without a job because they didn't work. Tell me, what's the problem in this country when there are interested customers and there's a factory that can work? Or are we going to get into a situation where so many people will be on the street and the factory will go bankrupt? What's this all about? Because the state doesn't care. You take this question seriously. We're at the beginning, it's Tuesday, this week's work week. By the end of this week – I end up, Madam President, and thank you, this is a very important issue because it is the fate of 900 workers and their families – people will come from Arangelovac to Belgrade and will start looking in front of the building of the competent institutions and these deceitful consulting houses their rights, because workers must live and have to fight for themselves and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5563	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5564	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you just think I'm saying the same thing when I go out for this pay phone. I'm not saying the same thing. You see, this morning you told us that there was a party, some party here, so you said what was 150 years ago, so even today, we have invites, which you invite, and no one else, just you, you invite them, you made your own party, "The Voice of America." That's the facts, that's the result of your three-month presidency, or six-monthly, as long as you're in the National Assembly. Is Cvetko behind it, if Mirko's behind it, it doesn't matter to me, it's your fault for this condition. It's your fault that I can listen to "The Voice of America" in the National Assembly, and there aren't those I want to charge here for every item. That's what the Minister said. She said she was making a new theory. What's this new theory? We're talking in the media here, but we can't talk here in the Assembly, about Eulex, and we in Serbia have natolex. It's this government of Mirko Cvetkovic. They run politics and fight the SRS through the media, and they're not here. There was Mrs. Justice, the correct woman did her job, she's got some personal stuff, it's good for her, she's got the lady right, but she can't answer these questions. She can numerically say something -- I've paired these numbers, this, that, but behind each digit is politics. For eight years, Rasim Ljajic has been in power. He delivers, pays for transportation, as The Hague tribunal has no money. Who runs our ministries? Foreigners. They may have a last name with a "ic", they may not have a last name with a "ic", but the foreigners lead, you can tell by politics; it's foreign policy, it's not this people's policy. Every burning question of life is not solved here, it's not talked about here, it's talked about at the Sava Center, at some television stations, and, of course, you force some of your own to stop them from hearing the truth. Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, if nothing else, even if I am opening and closing this assembly, it is clear to everyone. One more thing, since you really insulted us, I appreciate your profession, put on a coat and headphones and go to the government, there are your patients and not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5565	The word is Mr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5566	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, I am of course reporting to members 225 and 226, but I will actually return to the subject of the budget. On Friday, I spoke and showed through the numbers that, unfortunately, the increase in pensions that pensioners should formally receive has already been eaten. But in the last few days, more precisely the last ten days, that pension increase has been eaten another way. In fact, the dinar has weakened 13% in the meantime; out of 75 it's gone to 85, and that's 13%. Of course, I'm not saying this because now I'm worried about those who want to buy foreign exchanges. Unfortunately, we are a country that has far greater imports than exports and every drop in dinars must, by the logic of things, reflect inflation. In other words, pensioners will, on the one hand, get a 10% raise, maybe a little less, and everything they buy will grow much more than that. Of course the fall of the dinar will not only affect the pensioners but it will hit all the other less or more well-employed, not to mention the unemployed, so I ask Mrs. Minister how she sees that this is how this so-called socially responsible policy will be conducted? I'm afraid this socially responsible policy will leave nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5567	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5568	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, I would like to join the request of a number of MPs from the opposition who asked for a certain number of ministers to come here next to the finance minister, Mrs Dragutinovic, if not the entire government. So, if the government can gather at meetings at the Sava Centre or at the opening of Delta City in Podgorica, indeed, when talking about budget rebalancing and budgeting members of the government is the place in this room. I would particularly like to see Mr. Djelic's Deputy Prime Minister here. Why him? Because in his sector, he's either a realtor or in his jurisdiction, a team called the anti-poverty team. Even for a time, the team was also called the government's vice president's team against poverty. Why does it matter? Because I think Mr. Djelic may have a little more hearing about poor people's problems, all categories of poor people, not just pensioners. First of all, not all pensioners in this country are poor. It is true that a number of pensioners live below the poverty line. It's those pensioners who take minimum pensions. I will quote what Finance Minister Dragutinovic said on Friday to illustrate why I think there is not enough hearing for the poor in Serbia. I quote, so this is what Minister Dragutinovic said Friday during the afternoon debate: "Since I started to deal with the economy, I have listened to different, how can I say, black forecasts, from 35% of our people, say, living below the poverty line. If 35% of people lived below the poverty line, they wouldn't live but would be in the New Cemetery. It's just not true." I believe that in this room there should be people who will be able to assess how this budget rebalance affects all other vulnerable groups and groups living below the poverty line in Serbia. On October 17th, World Day against Poverty was marked, and the topic this year was – human rights and dignity of people living in poverty. So the fight against poverty is not just a development goal, but a way to ensure respect for human rights and a man's life. Madam President, I think you should invest your authority and ask that the other ministers from the government be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5569	The word is Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5570	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on Article 27. Rules of Procedure. Seven days ago, I asked you a question that you didn't give me any answers to. I probably wasn't clear enough. The reason I called back today was because I found Mr. Miloljub Albianic's resignation on the table. Probably the man saw that he couldn't do two jobs and then resigned as a MP. But what happens to the President or Mayor of Jagodina? It's about Article 102. A constitution that speaks perfectly clearly of these things. What's going on with the mayor of Kragujevac? What's going on with the deputy mayor of Kragujevac? What's going on with the president of the municipality at the Frog? What's going on with the Mayor of Loznica? The Constitution of Article 105 states that the National Assembly by majority votes, therefore, is 126, the adoption between the other and the budget and the final account. How do you think these people vote? Is there a violation of the Constitution? Will you, as president of the National Assembly, react on this matter? You didn't react. So you're breaking the Constitution. We've told you that a few times. You accuse the opposition in all the media of obstructing parliament, and you do it every day. You're inviting us to a cocktail. Why didn't we work yesterday? Why didn't we work for a month and a half this summer? Why are there so many days off? Give me an answer. Don't set us up for cocktails at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5571	The question has been repeated on many occasions. I think I've given you an answer, which I'm going to give right now. We all know that the National Assembly determines the termination and confirms the mandates, and that the rest of the cases, we have spoken about who they are, solves all the problematic issues. You're reporting to the Rules of Procedure again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5572	Madam President, I ask you one question and you answer the other. Do you know what the Constitution says? What are your business assignments in the Rules of Procedure? I'm asking you these questions, and someone's saying they're resigning. You have five people here who make up the quorum and who make up most of them, who, by the Constitution, have no right to be MPs. That's what I'm talking about, not who's in charge and who's in charge and who's instituting, and who's terminating the mandates of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5573	Thank you. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5574	Ladies and gentlemen, in light of the draft law in the work entitled "The basic macroeconomic assumptions for the 2008 budget," it said that real GDP growth in the first quarter of 2008 was 8.2% compared to the same period in 2007. Then real GDP growth in the second quarter is estimated at around 7.5%. Other macroeconomic indicators are also given a table showing their growth rate in the first seven months of 2008. For example, for basic inflation that is 6.8%; for industrial production, physical volume, 4.2%. Also shown is the net inflow of foreign direct investment, privatisation revenues, and foreign reserves. Even more optimism is present in the work called "Economic Perspectives". The work states that the government's main economic policy objectives, among other things, are dynamic economic growth, employment growth and are all expected by the end of 2008. Also, high GDP growth of 7%, stabilising the price of crude oil, improving the anti-monopoly policy, export growth, even reducing the external trade deficit. Our citizens need to know next. By definition, gross domestic product is the value of final goods and services produced during a period of time, usually over a year, on the territory of a country. This is the definition from the book "National Economy". The authors are Dr. Stevan Nineaković, Dr. Biljana Jovanovic-Gavrilović and Dr. Gojko Rikalović. The book is used at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade. The GDP also includes the value of the final goods and services produced by foreign companies in our territory, for example, American Sartid or U.S. Steel, although he transfers his income, or hundreds of millions of dollars, to his headquarters in America. What benefits of the transfer from Serbia to the US are our citizens, except that GDP growth is shown on paper, it is not difficult to conclude. Professor Jovan Dusanic of Belgrade Business School says: "The very structure of GDP growth for the first three quarters in 2007 shows that 7.2% in growth with as much as 5.6 percentage points took part in trade sectors (a growth of 18%), traffic (a rise of 20%) and financial mediation (24%), sectors that do not appear as growth engines in their nature and thus do not provide stable and sustainable economic growth". And then Professor... Dusanic concludes: "The cynic would say, although domestic production is well suffocated, GDP is growing year by year, because large quantities of import goods should be brought in -- this is traffic growth, sales -- trade growth, and the population is massively approved by loans so that import goods can be bought -- this is the growth of the financial sector." Also, the external trade deficit will not decrease, on the contrary, according to estimates of domestic economists, the external trade deficit will reach about $13 billion by the end of this year. According to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, an external trade deficit reached $8.23 billion in January-August 2008. This is a 41.9% increase compared to the same period in 2007. It's also an unfavourable import structure. According to the Institute for Market Research, I quote, "with such an import structure recently cannot be counted on improving the competitive position of the Serbian economy". Therefore, export growth is also controversial. These dreary data should certainly be added to those on external debt, which are kept silent in the light of the draft law. It is estimated that our country's external debt amounted to about $30 billion at the end of July 2008. Of course, the legislator will present as counterarguments what it says in Article 3. The bill, or the state of public debt of the Republic of Serbia on 31 August 2008. The legislator will likely state that public sector debt was reduced from 81% from eight years ago to 32% in June 2008, but according to estimates of the Institute for Market Research, the external private sector debt had already exceeded $20 billion in June 2008. Also, the Fund for the Development of Economic Science said that Serbia's external debt in June 2008 reached 57% of GDP in absolute terms. Only at the end of the second quarter was around 690m euros higher than in March. In the Fund for the Development of Economic Science, they also concluded that this growth is a long-term consequence of, above all, the long-term borrowing of enterprises, about 80% of private debt refers to such a type of borrowing. Therefore, the legislator and the government cannot be uninterested and passive at the time when businesses and citizens are in debt and when external debt is so rapidly growing. Calling on the figures in Article 3 and keeping the above quiet won't change the reality. Look at what happened in Russia and what impact the West has made on the Russian economy and society, right through the borrowing of private companies and large companies. The Russian state was forced to reroute about 60 billion dollars or about 10% of foreign exchange reserves to domestic companies or banks, primarily due to debt payments. But unlike Russia, we don't have 600 billion dollars in reserves, or a few hundred more in various stabilisation funds; we don't have oil, we don't have gas, we can't affect the world's price of oil like Russia. We don't even have a surplus in the budget, we have a deficit, which is increasing further by this bill. That is why more than irresponsible is what is proposed in the rebalancing, which is a new borrowing, sale or privatisation and an increase in deficits. For example, in Article 2. The draft amending and supplementing law on the budget is quoted as saying: "The funds needed to finance the budget deficit of around 23,888,000,000 dinars and expenditure on the acquisition of financial assets of around 21.896.000,000 dinars and expenditures based on the repayment of the principal debt of around 46,334,000 dinars will be provided, among other things, from privatisation receipts, loans and broadcasting of government securities of value. "It can also be seen from the reasoning that our industrial production did not reach the 1998 level in the last year, nor that basic inflation was calculated independently of the price of oil and derivatives, some agricultural products and financial services in 2008. You can't even see the state of our gross national income. By definition, this is the value of the final goods and services produced within or outside the border of a country, with which income is obtained by the sale of residents of that country. You can't even see the human development index, the parameters used by the United Nations. There's no record of current transaction balances. Also, on the basis of which the promoter concluded that the next period would see oil price stabilised, would it fall from $140 per barrel to 60, or the OPEC announcement that it would reduce production? Is the promotion of the anti-monopoly policy, mentioned by the promoter, the visit of oligarch Miskovic to Olija Rehn and Brussels on 20 October 2008? So, this reasoning of the budget is, at the very least, unclear, insufficient and detached from the context. They are completely unclear and announcements that the budget for next year will be drawn up with the help of the IMF Council. It is clear that the IMF is behind an irresponsible economic policy or accelerated borrowing that is uncritically run by domestic institutions and authorities. The International Monetary Fund is the main culprit for the bad situation in our economy, which is plainly to say. For example, a few days ago, we had the opportunity to hear the IMF forecast that our GDP would grow in the following year. It is clear that this media-glorificed data on GDP growth should have covered up all of this negative economic data that we have previously cited. Also, several known world economists and politicians claim that the IMF Council and programmes have long been overcome and harmful, despite claims coming from the finance ministry and from the governor of the National Bank, as well as the Prime Minister. For example, the president of a country that is a member of the European Union, the Czech Republic, Vaclav Klaus even proposed a few days ago, quote: "The IMF and the World Bank, with which no one knows what to do, should be abolished as obsolete". Therefore, the advice of Joseph Dobric, the winner of the Nobel Prize for Economics and former World Bank Vice-President, who says developing countries must take responsibility for their well-being on their own. They can manage their budgets by living within their means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5575	National MP Zeljko Tomic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5576	President-in-Office, honourable presidency, respected colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Article 225, whose first position says, "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP." Today, we were able to learn from the press, and yesterday from electronic media, that yesterday in Novi Sad, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic and the President of the Executive Council of the Autonomous Province, Mr. Bojan Pajtic, agreed, among other things, to present at the next session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the agenda the draft statutes of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, the budget for the coming year and the law on the competencies of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. I ask you, President, to clearly defend the independence and independence of this House. What institution, which was the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the Executive Greater Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, can create the agenda of the Republic of Serbia? I remind you that the proposal for the Statute of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina does not come from the Executive Council or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but from the Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, so you... All I ask is that you defend the independence and independence of this House, because our level of communication on this subject can only be the president of the Autonomous Province Assembly of Vojvodina Mr. Shandor Egereshi; he can agree with you to discuss what will be on the agenda. But Mr. Egereshi has more to do, his proposal for the Statute of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina now knows better than all of us and Jelko Kacin, and Doris Pak and Catalin Sili. There's a world going around, there's something going on about that bill of statutes across Europe. At least there is talk about it here, but this is not being communicated by the Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who are in charge of this by the Constitution, but by everyone else. I only urge you to defend the sovereignty of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5577	Thanks for the suggestion. I want to inform you that the president of the Vojvodina Assembly was with his associates in the Serbian Parliament and that we had a meeting, and that I will be in the Vojvodina Assembly tomorrow. The text of the Statute has been delivered to the MPs, the Statute is in the procedure here and of course the Proposer has its place, and that every session's agenda, including the sessions at which we will plead on the statute, is decided by the MPs. I absolutely respect your suggestions and I'm ruling them right now, and before I get them. Mr. Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Mr. Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5578	Of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, which you wish to change without agreement within the Assembly and parliamentary groups, members of 225 and 226. We will make sure that such members remain in the Rules of Procedure, as that is, by the way, the standard of all EU countries. There are various models that are involved, but I'll talk about it later. Now I've called to ask a question directly to the Prime Minister. In order for me to continue working, I need an answer from him. I made a significant effort to watch the Prime Minister's television show, it was very inspiring, it was often hard for me not to fall asleep while watching that show, but I paid particular attention to one thing. Namely, to the leader's direct question: "How is it that in Montenegro for products from Serbia prices are lower than in Serbia? ", the Prime Minister replied, believe it or not: "I read in the paper that it is, I saw it in the press and in the media that it is." That was his answer. I am interested and asking the Prime Minister and I expect an answer, according to the Rules of Procedure, within eight days, when will it begin to be informed in the manner in which the real Prime Ministers are informed? When will it cease to be informed via electronic media or newspapers and when will it determine the reasons for the lower prices of products from Serbia in Montenegro than in Serbia? I expect an answer to that question within eight days, in writing. I will remind the National Assembly Secretariat that I have asked such a question by the minister of justice, related to the fight against corruption and the work of the judiciary, specifically the Smederev District Court, on the case concerning the abuse of invalidity pensions. For years, the case has been in the Smedereva District Court; the police and the prosecution have done their job, nothing is happening on this issue. The Minister didn't answer my question. It's been eight days. Neither does the Minister of the Interior, i.e. Deputy Prime Minister didn't answer my question which I also asked more than eight days ago... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end up, and the issue concerns whether he too supports these secret negotiations regarding Eulex and that EULEX is being installed in Kosovo, contrary to the decisions made by the Serbian state last year and are still valid because we haven't changed them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5579	National MP Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5580	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I am one of the MPs who, in the past assembly's assembly session, participated in the adoption of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. We then very constructively pointed out many problems, failures and realities in the implementation of the budget and inadequacies that the budget was thus set. The remarks are partially appreciated, but here, in the second half of the fourth quarter, we're talking about budget rebalancing. The question is, why the rebalancing? I think the answers should be sought in the fact that many budget items are realised in figures that differ significantly from the figures set in the 2008 budget. It is good that, even though this late, real life, real income and real expenditure are agreed, defined and determined how much of this deficit is in the budget. The realisation of the 2008 budget was under such circumstances that in the good part of the year in the government we had insufficient regular conditions: we had a technical government that worked for almost four months, and then there was a change of government and a new organisation of ministries was set up, new ministries and commissions were formed, certain new functions in the government that had to be financed from the budget and for which no funds were planned. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no intention to further elaborate the importance of the budget as one of the most important levers for implementing the macroeconomic, development and social policies of the government. That's understood. The objectives of the current government are quite clearly defined, especially in the part of infrastructure development and social policy realisation, and the draft budget rebalancing law is actually going towards achieving these objectives. The new government's emergency pension increase by 10% for payments starting in October and beyond, while regularly synchronising pensions, raises new expenditures of more than 12,658,000,000 dinars. Agricultural subsidies are further increased by nearly seven billion dinars as many regulations have been adopted in the meantime, such as: the Regression Regulation for the production of ratites and vegetable crops, the Regulation on the use of funds to support commercial agricultural holdings, the Regulation on the way of using funds to genetically improve dairy livestock and the Regulation on how to use funds to regress animal insurance. In addition, there has been a rapid increase in the number of registered households in agriculture, for which certain allocations are foreseen. A necessary need is created for additional allocations of 2.3 billion for traffickers of national importance, such as corridors and bypasses. Also, the new expenditure is a joint investment project with a Fiat amounting to nearly two billion dinars. It concerns the fact that from year to year, including this rebalance, an increase in the number of employees financed from the 2008 budget is projected. At the end of 2008, the number of officials on the state budget will be 260,111, which is double the number from 2000. They also worry about data that in many ministries we have items about services under contract, a good part of intellectual, although we have a large number of employees. The number of employees in various agencies also significantly burdens the budget. I am convinced that the Serbian government will address these problems when proposing the 2009 budget and beyond. I believe that what is good in this budget rebalancing is that the budget deficit of 45.7 billion dinars will be covered by real resources, good works and increased revenues. It is also good that the rebalance defines macroeconomic objectives, with the intention of achieving them in such a short period of time, and these are: further steady economic growth, balanced regional development, building infrastructure facilities, growing standards. By the end of the year, efforts will be made to ensure the growth of the gross social product by 7%, to keep inflation below the two-digit number; a trend will continue to increase exports in order to reduce the external trade deficit; foreign reserves are stable, population savings and investments are growing realistically, and this is all in conditions where the global economy is severely rocking the wave of the financial crisis. The measures that the NBS, together with the Government, foresees give hope that our economy and population will pass with as little negative consequences as possible and will continue the investment cycle that we need more than we need. I fully respect the views of certain MPs that we are entering a period of very serious financial crisis, that we are not on a desert island and that this wave (someone mentioned it as a tsunami) will reflect again on our economy; that very carefully, responsibly and professionally should prepare the economic policy objectives for next year, the budget for next year and, in particular, how to get out of the recession that will inevitably affect us, where social product growth is projected by 4%, and our needs are, above all, in employment, in growth production, in investments, which we will very difficult to realise from credit which, in any case, in the next year and next period, will have to be higher than it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5581	Mr. Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5582	After your explanation this morning that we were getting some memos last week that were talking about the formation of working groups, I checked with us at the MP's club. We received a single letter from Veljko Odalovic, Secretary General of the National Assembly, on 23 October, saying that it is necessary to submit names for members of the RIK as soon as possible. Just because we talked or you talked to someone about the subject doesn't mean that you can in an interview for "Evening News" to publish, to tell the truth, that a working group has been formed for the making of Rules of Procedure, and that the working group has not yet been formed. It was formed this morning on the Administrative Board, about 10.20 was a vote for such a thing, in which I took part and voted "yes". That's what this is about. All your explanations that you gave me during my first report on the breach of the Rules of Procedure fall into the water. If it's true that you sent any memo last week or week that preceded it, we didn't get it, because our secretary at the Parliament Club is neatly in an internal delivery book seducing all the memos we're getting. Such a memo on your part has not arrived. In other words, or in translation, you have spoken falsely. With that untruth you gave me in the paper, you didn't answer me here at all, and my remark, in terms of respect for Article 27, was that you didn't do it, that you were crossing the frameworks of your powers and doing things that weren't correct and not worthy of this home.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5583	The word is Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5584	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the poor situation in the Serbian economy is, in my opinion, primarily an economic destruction that has been carried out years ago in the Serbian economy, and then, the poor political climate we have been aware of since 2000, which implies frequent elections, the instability of governments and the unrealistic demands of small parties. As a consequence of the last republican elections and the new parliamentary majority, we also have this budget rebalance ahead of us, the 2008 budget rebalance. It is obvious at first sight that, as far as this budget rebalance is concerned, there is no change in economic... (President: I ask Mr Jojic and Mr Sulejman, as well as the other MPs who make it impossible for us to hear the speaker, not to do so. Thank you. So that there is no change in fiscal and economic policy, it is obvious in this budget rebalancing, as well as insisting on excessively high public and personal spending. In this proposal, rebalancing consumption has increased by about 11 billion dinars. As for demand, it continues, unfortunately, in the Serbian economy to be encouraged by the borrowing of citizens, businesses and states, and the budget continues to be filled primarily with spending taxes, because production is almost gone. As a consequence of this concept of the budget, we will no doubt have a further appreciation of the dinars, which is what we had years ago, that monetary policy is trying to bring down inflation. We will have an increase in the liquidity of the economy; it is also one of the things that awaits us and will cause a decline in economic activity, but also an increase in the pay deficit, because all of this involves slowing down exports and increasing imports, therefore, further incompetence of the Serbian economy. Unfortunately, instead of the state tightening the belt, the belt will be tightened this time by citizens and the economy of Serbia. Instead of working as a barrier to poverty, we will have a situation where, with this distribution, those who fill the budget live worse, and those who live off the budget, above all, the state administration, live better than they do. In the debate on amendments, Parliament's Group "Forward, Serbia" Tomislav Nikolic has proposed twenty amendments, and there will be opportunities to go into detail and propose those changes that, according to us, are important. Now, it seems to me, the most important thing is to say a few words about economic policy, about the government's macroeconomic policy. It is my desire to look first at the external trade and payment deficit. My colleagues talked about it before, but I'd like to get a few more details. In 2006, we had a deficit of 12% of gross domestic product, in 2007 16.7% of gross domestic product and in 2008 18.3%, at least according to the projections of this budget rebalance. However, according to some of the information I have, the NBS has changed the account of the payment deficit and is likely to be higher by the previous account. Obviously, this is also on the front of the budget rebalancing law, which increases VAT on import goods from 205 billion to 222 billion, which means there will be more import goods than was planned in 2008 and compared to that budget we adopted less than a year ago. So it's a question of sustainability of the pay deficit. We've covered it so far, by borrowing the state, by borrowing banks and businesses, by privatizing it, which is obviously coming down. Here, we have the announcements by Minister Dinkic that they will go to business leases, so the inflow into the privatisation budget will be lower, as well as by foreign direct investments, which have not yet been sufficiently large enough, but most often were privatisation revenues. In any case, the consequences of the global financial crisis and of Serbia's economy will be seen, above all, when it comes to foreign exchange inflow. Regardless of the large foreign reserve, I don't think we can be calm, far from it. This kind of pay deficit is unacceptable. When it comes to inflation, unfortunately, we have a situation where we have both a high pay deficit and a high inflation that is projected at about 9.5%, which is about double inflation. This is the best indicator that over the past year we have had a very bad fiscal policy, a fiscal policy that allowed public sector wages to grow above productivity and which is the main culprit for having a situation today that we have an increased pay deficit and increased inflation. No, unfortunately, with our offer, the demand is being poured into inflation and payment deficits. It is obvious that the previous years did not take care of the Serbian economy. It is obvious that it intends to continue with such a policy in the coming period and that it is the government's policy. The only positive indicator, as interpreted by the government, is economic growth of 7%. This is in a situation where Europe expects a recession of very good data. What's bad is that in the structure of economic growth in the industry only about 20% is waste. The majority of economic growth comes from services and, above all, from financial ones, means, from the further borrowing of our citizens, from debts; then, growth in trade and traffic services and, above all, those services that accompany imports of goods to Serbia. I would say one more thing, it seems to me that my colleagues did not pay attention to this – that, for example, the ratio of the value of the additional value of goods and services to the country and the one that comes from imports two and a half times in favour of the import tax on additional value, that this budget rebalance has increased from 205 billion to 222, which is a serious increase, and that the country's additional value tax has dropped from 99, as far as it was projected by the previous budget, to 88, and this suggests either a decline in economic activity in the country or a lower charge, which is, in any case, a problem for Mrs. Minister. In the end, I would say that, no doubt, the situation in the Serbian economy is very bad. The citizens are very dissatisfied. There is a feeling of apathy and imperceptibility in Serbia, and that is what most Serbian citizens feel. Such a budget, such an economic policy is unacceptable for the Serbian Progressive Party. The only thing about rebalancing is that it'll only take two months. We have hope that with the 2009 budget, the situation will be much more favourable, in the sense that the economy and citizens are in the first place, not the state and the state administration. Thank you. (SRS emissaries were banging on the benches as MP Zoran Antic spoke. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5585	The word is by MP Milan Lapcevic, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5586	The President-in-Office, I call on Article 226, which speaks of the information of the MPs. I want to ask the question, first of all, the finance minister, and it's inspired by what I read on the website B92. In fact, there have been words in the afternoon session, and we have witnessed in recent days, that the dinar has weakened at least 13% in the last month and that today it is more than 85 dinars per euro. National Bank Governor Mr. Jelasic explains that the biggest reason for the drop in dinar is the withdrawal of foreign investment in Serbia and says the following, I quote: "It is a matter of withdrawing funding from foreign investors, which in three or six months planned some investment, so the queen told them to give the money back first, and then we will see, after three to six months, what we will and how, since there is currently a general shortage of money in centrals, let alone in countries like our region." Since we know that the budget deficit has been proposed to us by this rebalance of 45 billion dinars, and according to the government's projection and according to the announcements of Vice-President Krkobic and other people from the ruling coalition and next year should further increase pensions, and thus further increase the deficit in the budget, how do you plan to reduce, to cover that deficit if foreign investments withdraw? What about the story and the pre-election promises to vote for this coalition, because then more foreign investors will come? Also, I ask the question, how much has the foreign savings been reduced in October of the month since the global economic crisis occurred?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5587	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5588	Mrs. Komic, what I'm about to say is not relevant to you, because the injury occurred at the time when Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic was in that place. Of course, this applies to Article 27. Rules of Procedure. If you see Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, feel free to tell her what I'm about to say. You see, today Mrs. Dejanovic decided to throw a party at half past two. 150 years ago, some law was passed on to the National Assembly; it says it's the first, there's no need for us not to believe it. She gave us a short talk that there were MPs and so on. Members of the Parliament. A moment ago, he was a messenger for this pay phone. She invited him, so he came, otherwise he doesn't have any legitimacy; he is a witness in court in one procedure, which I hope will go as soon as possible, because there is some suspicion that a criminal act of Article 328 - destruction of official documents has been committed. I brought a copy of the resignation we talked about an hour ago. It was found that Milosevic Albianic resigned, etc., here stands the text. The same text is also for these 20 invitation MPs, with an invitation, only instead of Serbia - Boris Tadic was SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj, the same signed. Someone destroyed it to be an ambassador. Someone comes out here representing, and who does they represent? The voice of America? It represents those who were at "Sava Center" with an Italian Stallion from the Eggs. What's he representing? Where's that legitimacy? I know you won't agree with me on the assignment, but I know, Mrs. Comic, in the depths of your soul, you agree with me. You absolutely agree. Everyone in this room agrees. There is only one man who disagrees, and that is Boris Tadic. He needs a backup. Why? To make the assembly look like this, so that here on the indictee's bench would not be Mirko Cvetkovic, Bozidar Djelic, Mladjan Dinkic and in turn. I'm just telling the public, this is illegal. All that was just said from this speaker should be thrown out of the record, from history, because it goes to the black side of the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia. Don't let that happen. I keep informing you and warning you that it can be very dangerous for the left-hand side, because... It's been a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5589	There's no damage to article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, not in any of the views. The president of the National Assembly acted in accordance with her powers. When she calls the session, she directs calls to all the MPs. Today's day coincides with one historic date, and within her authority she invited all the MPs to mark such a day. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. He wants to speak for the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5590	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as we discuss the budget and while we realize that a hole in that 45 billion budget cannot possibly be covered... Last night, I was thinking that Mladjan Dinkic and his crew would close it. I already know today. Articles 225 and 226. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remind you of the past term when we MPs of the SRS were held here until there was no electricity released in the village of Grmovac, and for 11 years the settlement was without electricity. Now they thought of the gents of Electrodistribution, and thus the state, because they charge the VAT on the sausage spent electricity, that these citizens are punished in the most drastic way. I have an electricity bill that arrived to a man named Zuber Milenko, Nova 11, number 25, amounting to 94,421 dinar. It says, 16103 kilowatts were spent, and on the number that they read and wrote neatly in the record - 3925 kilowatts. So the difference between 3925 and 16103 needs to cover this hole. It's Zuber Milenko's fault that when the Ustashas chased him away from the Ustasha knife and came to Zemun, or the Grmovac village, bought the plot, built the house himself, tortured himself, and for 11 years he was without electricity, without anything, not only him, but all the citizens of the Bolmovacs, so that today those who let him have one light bulb in the settlement and held on a lamp for a month so that people could see that there was electricity... Then they were joining up, the power distribution was joining up, and today they tell Mr. Zuber that they've charged him with electricity per square of the conductor. So the maximum load for the conductor, times 24 hours a day, times 30 days a month, then times 12 months. That's how they got this number. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this robbery of the poorest, poorest people in this country must be stopped. I call on all MPs, I call on the Minister of Energy, Cvetkovic, the Government to stop this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5591	National MP, you have not requested any information on the basis of Articles 225 and 226, and this constitutes an abuse and violation of the Rules of Procedure, of Rule 104. I ask you, if we have a silent agreement to get word for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and it is used to apply Articles 225 and 226, to request one information at least, otherwise, to establish a basis for giving criminal measures for violating other provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic does not want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Slobodan Samardzic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5592	Dear People's MPs, I have reported to the members of 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to ask for information and an explanation of the talks and negotiations, which are being conducted in connection with the installation of EULEX on the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija. It's a process that takes place in front of our eyes, which we have a lot of indicators for. Today you had a chance to read in the press that Javier Solana said that Eulex would deploy throughout the territory of Kosovo and Metohija during December. It is high time this congregation spoke a word about it. It is, at the very least, the most called to discuss it and to make appropriate decisions, to at least make a resolution on the matter. As a Parliament, we have no luck with such a resolution or with such an initiative. We had a motion for a 107-seat resolution, which was magically lost from the agenda of this assembly, we had two motions for a resolution by the ruling majority who were withdrawn and all this was a way to avoid discussing this important matter. We know that Eulex is the crown of the Martti Ahtisaari plan and that without Eulex there is no implementation of that plan, and we hear that the Government and the President of the Republic set up some three conditions for EULEX to be installed in Kosovo and Metohija: that the Security Council should make the right decision, and the Security Council rejected the Martti Ahtisaari plan a year ago; and then the condition that the Eulexa mission should not implement the Martti Ahtisaari plan, and the Eulexa mission is in Annex 10 of Marty Ahtisaari's plan. As it has been implemented so far, it strictly follows the annex 10 of Marty Ahtisaari's plan; there is no Eulex outside Marty Ahtisaari's plan. It's one of the most common tricks and deceptions that it's possible to establish the EULEX beyond Marty Ahtisaari's plan. Finally, it is said that Eulex should be status neutral. Marty Ahtisaari's plan is statusally biased. He is establishing independence for Kosovo and Metohija. Eulex should serve to help carry out Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Our government is now negotiating with representatives of the international community, above all with representatives of the Western forces, about some way to establish Eulex without our public noticing it. I think the Assembly needs to talk about it. In addition, talks on some six counts of co-operation between Serbia and Kosovo are also being discussed, six points reportedly guaranteed by UNMIK. I need to remind you that Eulex is tasked with replacing UNMIK. So whoever has to guarantee a six-point deal will disappear in a month or two, and then Eulex will say he has no jurisdiction to implement those six points and they will be carried out by the institutions of an independent Kosovo. All this is being prepared somehow behind the back of this congregation. So, not to get into the measure of things now, I just demand that the Assembly start talking about it, to have one conversation, that the motion for a resolution given by a group of 108 MPs be a cause for this conversation, so let the vote on the resolution be put to the vote, each by its own conscience, and by its political programme, but this assembly has to discuss this matter, it cannot be heard, because the acceptance of Eulex is actually the recognition of an independent Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5593	I ask the service to refer a stenogram of presentation to the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija and the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. As regards the necessary information on when and how it can be on the agenda, it is necessary that the authorising officer submits a request for a document to be placed on the agenda, which the applicant calls a resolution, or whatever he considers. There was no such request when voting on the agenda of the sitting under way. The word has a folk MP Nenad Popovic, followed by MP Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5594	The Honorable President, the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Madam Minister, has been here for two months in the Assembly talking about the coming big economic crisis. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not reacted for these two months, not one single time. A month ago, after this same pay phone, we said, specifically, I said, there's going to be a recession. The prime minister, the minister did not react for a month and only yesterday we heard the first statement by Prime Minister Cvetkovic, from the government, that next year will be very difficult. What Mr. Cvetkovic said yesterday was in total collegiation with this budget rebalance. After yesterday's statement by Mr Cvetkovic, I believe that the only fair way, the only way that would not offend the intelligence of this assembly and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is to withdraw this proposal of budget rebalancing, because this rebalancing is in full, 100% conflict with what Prime Minister Cvetkovic said yesterday. I'll try to do it very briefly, since the discussion is in principle, explain. The first problem of this proposal is its legality, i.e. the non-compliance with the provisions of the amending and supplementing law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for this year with the Budgetary System Act. At the very beginning of the material delivered, on the first hand, it becomes clear that the proponent, i.e. the Government, did not adhere to a key law defining, among other things, the way of showing the budget deficit, i.e. the surplus. By way of derogation from Article 13(1) of the Budgetary System Act, Article 13(1) is defined as a way of determining the budgetary surplus and deficits, as the difference between the total amount of the current income and the receipts achieved on the basis of the sale of non-financial assets and the total amount of current expenditure and expenditure on the acquisition of non-financial assets. This rebalancing proposal has avoided the obligation to clearly show the budget deficit and the way it is covered, and instead an existing but not yet operational, unused category of financial results has been introduced. According to this proposal, instead of talking about increasing the deficit from 14.5 billion dinars to nearly 24 billion, we have a presentation, I will repeat, a financial result, which includes the difference between the payment and the lending and the difference between the sales volume and the purchase of financial assets, which is why it is much higher in our case, and even more negative, because it sees a budget deficit of more than 45 billion dinars. When this member is applied as planned, which was the case in determining the 2008 budget and our budget deficit was around 14.5 billion dinars, so if this way of showing the budget surplus and deficits were applied, the deficit would not be 45 billion, as shown here, based on the introduction of the purchase of financial assets in the expenditures of the budget, it would already be slightly larger than 24 billion, or the deficit would be lower for the purchase of 22 billion dinars, but would be higher by nine billion dinars, not five, as the public keeps mentioning. The reduction in the expected level of supply of financial assets has clouded the situation, it is likely so deliberately shown that budget growth is less than real. Someone will say that the proposal shows the financial result, not the deficit, which is adjusted in a given way, but whether any other acts have been seen to have been adopted by one methodology, and then the amendments to the act are discussed by another. In order for the budgets to be comparable, they must be proposed and changed in exactly the same form. Now, it seems to me that someone is trying to avoid showing the essence through a change of form, which is that the growth of the deficit is greater than the one shown in the proposal and that the purpose of this deficit is more than controversial. The proposed deficit increase has not been made in accordance with Article 4(1). The law on the budgetary system, which says the budgetary objective in preparing and implementing the budget is macroeconomic stability, sustainable and stable economic development and reduction, I will stress the financial risk of the Republic of Serbia. What were the essential reasons for this government's management in formulating rebalancing? In the text of the rebalancing proposal delivered to us, the government tried to show us that there were significant increases in income and that is the essential reason. In fact, the state does have a new unplanned income. receiving a budget based on a payment from the Republic Broadcasting Agency of 298 million dinars; that's a little less, let me just translate it into four million euros. It's a payment registered in March 2008. I point out that this payment, less than fourm euros, is the only explicitly mentioned receipt of the budget. There are no other receipts, except that the government in the rebalancing assumes that tax and customs revenues will be increased. The rebalancing proposal says budgeting should reach 650 billion dinar levels, while budget spending and the acquisition of financial assets will reach a level of 695.5 billion dinars, which will result in a financial result of minus 45.7 billion dinars. Even during the pre-election campaign, especially during the creation of the post-election coalition, many of the expenditures that are now coming toll have already been created. We warned where this "social responsibility" would lead us based on empty words and deficits. Instead of using unplanned budget revenue to reduce the planned deficit, the rebalancing proposal makes us an even bigger deficit. Repeatedly, following the words of Mr Cvetkovic at the conference yesterday, the government is spending to preserve the structure of the ruling coalition, and the cost of the government's survival will bear, as always, under one, the economy and, under two, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Such a proposal to rebalance the budget also violates the principles of efficiency and economics, which are legal obligations in the budgetary system of financing. This is Article 4 of bet 3. The budget system law, which says the state should not impose higher costs than those necessary to achieve the economic policy objectives adopted for the current year. To conclude, in my opinion, the problem of this proposal for budget rebalancing, which we have to react to, and therefore disagree with its adoption, is the motive for which it was proposed. The Democratic Party of Serbia will never agree with a draft budget or its rebalancing that envisions an increase in public spending, an increase in deficits still in debt to the economy and citizens of Serbia, and in order to meet unrealistic pre-election promises. As I mentioned, instead of reducing the financial risk, the government is increasing it, and the illustration for this is the way the deficit funding is planned, i.e. the negative financial result. The planned deficit is 23 billion dinars, so let me translate about 300m euros to you, and the financial result is negative, more than 45 billion dinars or over 500m euros. The explanation of his cover delivered is... Not to be offended by Mrs. Minister, whom I greatly appreciate and which I am not entirely sure she supports this rebalancing, she herself said that this is a compromise, only an explanation is more than a thin one. It is said that the deficit will be covered, I quote, "from revenues from privatisation, credit, donations and financial assets of the budget and", very strangely, listen now to "the state securities issue of value". I'm particularly interested in this segment, Madam Minister, I'd like to hear an explanation later. Since my time is short, by principle, I'll break up here, and I'll proceed with the Rules of Procedure later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5595	National MP Jovan Palalic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). The DSS parliamentary group has six minutes and 30 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5596	I would like to ask again the question of when the National Assembly will discuss the motion for a resolution tabled by 108 MPs, a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija. Based on the presentation of my distinguished colleague Slobodan Samardzic, you said that such a motion for a resolution does not exist in the assembly procedure. It has been there since June of the month; since June 108 MPs have insisted, with a promise from the president of the National Assembly that the resolution will be on the agenda, that we finally discuss it here. We reiterate, not the government, but individual ministers and representatives of the second part of the executive government, specifically the President of the Republic, are in charge of negotiating the acceptance of the Eulex mission. No official institution establishing the policy led by this state, nor the government of the Republic of Serbia itself, and especially the National Assembly, has declared itself to be the position of the Serbian state towards this mission aimed at implementing the Martti Ahtisaari plan and, in fact, the creation of a Kosovo state in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So, is there anything more than the highest state body of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, finally taking a stand on this? We have inconclusive negotiations aimed at avoiding the text of the resolution, we have statements by the highest representatives of certain parts of the executive government, not the very decision of the Government or the National Assembly on the fact that it is the policy of this state. It has never happened since the negotiations started in 2005 on Kosovo and Metohija, that the National Assembly on the most important state issues did not take a stand. I ask you to consider and appreciate the fact that 108 MPs supported the proposal of one policy that the state of Serbia should lead when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, specifically the Eulex mission, and that such a proposal comes before the MPs, or that, with your authority, you instruct the Government of the Republic of Serbia to come out with its proposal so that we can finally discuss it here. The worst part is that we all keep quiet about it, that Serbia is silent about it, that the competent institutions are silent about it, and we have, in the end, the fact that someone has agreed to accept the Eulex mission and that Serbia has not declared it in any way but will accept it afterwards. Please, Madam President, that the motion for a resolution submitted by 108 MPs to the National Assembly, or for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to come here with its proposal, and finally to take a position on what the policy of the Republic of Serbia towards the Eulex mission is. We have no position on this matter, except for a statement by the President of the Republic and a statement by the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5597	On the basis of the insight into the stenogram and the response I gave to Parliamentarian Slobodan Samardzic on his request for notification, and in particular by consulting the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the agenda, I repeat the answer - when drawing up the session agenda, which was not required for emergency procedure and putting on the agenda of the document you are talking about. When the Assembly voted on whether or not there would be an emergency procedure for the resolution that you have proposed with fellow Members, the Assembly opposed the urgency of the procedure. In order to be able, under Article 90, to vote on what documents will be on the agenda, which acts, which neither the President of the Assembly nor any of us vice-presidents can present the document, the proposal before the Assembly, but the authorising officer must file an emergency procedure in order for the Assembly to declare it, as well as whether any proposal by authorised proposings will be on the agenda or not. The president of the National Assembly only proposes the agenda and the National Assembly decides on the agenda. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and has the word of MP Dragan Shormaz. He gets a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5598	Of course, I report under Articles 225 and 226. I have one question for the President of the Republic and for Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, and in some ways it will be a notice that may benefit some MPs in their work. I hope that, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, my question will be answered. We both need answers. In fact, it wasn't that long ago, I don't remember, it doesn't matter to me, but, say, a week ago, the Democratic Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia signed a coalition agreement for the next parliamentary elections they called the Declaration of Reconciliation. That's where they need to see where they're gonna find themselves, the G17 plus, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina. Of course what I said will be denied publicly, but when the elections are called you will see that there will be one united left - for European Serbia or something, so DS and SPS will be on the same list. It is good that members of the Democratic Party and their voters also know that. But what my question is, based on what was happening that day, is that the President of the Republic... I am not interested in the name and last name of the President of the Republic, but I am interested in the institution of the President of the Republic and I would like as a member of Parliament that the institution of the President of the Republic is protected at all times. I want to ask Boris Tadic who has been so difficult to deceive him to say after signing the coalition agreement, called the declaration, that the dinar will begin to grow at the same time? Now the euro is 85, that day was 80 or 81. Will the President of the Republic start listening to experts, people who know what they're talking about, or will they continue to listen to their marketing team and throw Serbia into bigger and bigger problems? The marketing team knows how to make it acceptable and beautiful for Serbian citizens, but does not know that it runs the country's economic policy. I repeat, today is 85, and Boris Tadic said that on the day he and Dacic sign the agreement, the dinar will strengthen compared to the euro. So my question for them is, who has deceived them and who are they listening to, and why do they violate institutions, the seriousness of institutions in this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5599	I ask that the stenograph of the presentation of the People's MP be referred to Vice President Ivica Dacic, and no one else, because MP Dragan Shormaz may request this notice from the authorities and organizations, and by the members of 225 and 226. Please advise the members of the Rules of Procedure more carefully if you want us to all use together, not abuse the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under a silent agreement. The word on the breach of the Rules of Procedure wishes for MP Nenad Popovic and receives a word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5600	The Honorable Chairman, I am advertising Article 225 and Article 226 and I am asking Mrs. Finance why, at the moment of the global financial crisis and the fact that the availability of external sources of funding will be increasingly minor, the government decides to create an even greater deficit, and as a solution to finance the deficit, it foresees the taking of new loans? Nowhere in the proposal stands for which loans are, for which purposes and under what conditions. Also, it is clear that we all know that the deficit cannot be financed from privatisation revenues because privatisation is practically halted, and the financial crisis suggests that interested customers will be less. Just to point out that the privatisation revenues in this year were 319m euros, and with the announced changes in the tender-privatisation regulation where the company's buyers will receive a certain privatisation loan, probably for five or six years, these revenues will be lower. The donations referred to as the source of income do not have the chance to be any significant source to cover the gap, and the emission of government securities from values as the source for deficit coverage at the time when investors retreated even in the most developed countries should not be used up at all. As a result, I believe that any increase in the deficit and debt of the state at this time is an attack on the country's financial stability and on the perspective of development, because this leads us to a uncertain situation to take on commitments, to finance some social programmes that represent a clean growth in consumption, enormous pressure on inflation and in the long run bring no growth, and to reduce investor confidence in financial stability in Serbia. In the rebalancing proposal, planned tax revenues are increasing by 102 billion dinars, most of which are VAT on imports of goods, which means that the government is encouraging imports by budget projections in rebalancing and only increasing the suspicion that there is still so-called. import lobby. The government considers VAT of imports to be income, safe income, and does nothing to make it as small as possible; rather, it predicts that VAT revenues from imports will increase by 17.1 billion dinars, predicting it will increase by 200m euros. Such a policy has led us to have a decline in export coverage from year to year with imports and it is now less than 47%, and the amount of the external trade deficit is at a record level and is projected to be around 8.5m euros by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5601	The word is made by the People's MP Milorad Krstin, followed by MP Dejan Radenkovic. National MPs Milan Dimitrijevic and Nenad Popovic and MP Chikiriz seek word for injury to the Rules of Procedure and will receive it in that order when Parliament is addressed by Parliament MP Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5602	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since the SRS parliamentary group has stolen a minute and there are a lot of registered fellow MPs who would talk about budget rebalancing, I will have to discuss my discussion for about six or seven minutes. I support my colleague Krasic, when it comes to budget rebalance here, it should be up to a certain number of ministers to give us answers when it comes to some irregularities related to this budget or some information that we MPs from certain districts can provide. In light of the short time, I will talk about Section 14, it is about the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, and I will get to know the minister who is currently consulting with his associates that, unfortunately, in this country since 2000, every year or every half year, there is a mob: we have a customs, travel, construction, energy, gas and this last, newly-roasted -- agrimafia or a mafia related to the lease of agricultural land. When the draft law on the protection of the state border was on the agenda, where one part speaks of what can be planted or cannot be planted near the border line, I took the opportunity to explain to Minister Dacic that, on the basis of the availability of information of public importance, I own 2015 land lease lists only in the municipality of Zrenjanin. There are licensants, those who bid the land, their signature is on the left, and there is a commission that should verify it on the right, however, there are a lot of contracts that are not certified. I asked them to provide me with information as to whether they had fulfilled their legal obligation and paid into the municipal budget, in a special account, in the province, in the Republic, for 2007 and 2008. Mr. Dacic has agreed to bring him that file from 2015. I have this file; I'm waiting for municipal administrations and city revenue administrations to answer the question I asked, which is -- what are these clients who paid for the rent of agricultural land in 2007 and 2008? They didn't pay. The thing is, they didn't pay. A colleague of Zivkov said that only in Old Vienna, where Mr. Nicovic used 11,000 hectares of land in leases and gave no one dinars so far... You know, when an MP comes out here for a pay phone, and when he gives it to you, it tells you a lot how much the agrarian budget has lost in these two years because his job hasn't worked, firstly, the Ministry of Agriculture, they confirm it, and then you as the finance minister who has his own district service, the inspection service that should check it out. So, as I said, if you try a little harder, Mrs. Dragutinović, and if you have co-operation with Interior Minister Mr. Dacic, if you have co-operation... Otherwise, the initiative was welcomed by the agriculture minister and confirmed that they had no control over the lease of agricultural land and it is thousands of hectares. According to the 1996 Agricultural Land Act. the year of the events involved in the auctioning of land in front of the municipality have higher salaries; this is on the Committee on Agriculture and showed Mr Petar Jojic, how it is done in Plandište, Pancheva, Opova, etc. Simply, you just need your inspection services that are located in the districts to get them to review the special accounts on which the rent of agricultural land is paid, ranging from one to five years, and you'll see how much the Ministry of Finance, how much the Ministry of Agriculture loses by using enormous areas, thousands of hectares of agricultural land to rent, and that the State. The municipalities, provinces and republics have not paid the dinars so far. This is the contribution of my presentation to the discussion in principle. Given the time allocated according to the number of SRS MPs, Dr Vojislav Seselj, I will have to interrupt but report to the amendments. By then, I'm going to get, hopefully, the answers that these bids have paid so far; I don't believe there are many, there's a small percentage, but you'll have additional information to see how much Serbia's budget is losing because of this agrarian mafia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5603	On the breach of the Rules of Procedure, he wants to speak to the MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5604	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm advertising members 225 and 226. I want to ask the Minister of Finance - why does the government lack confidence in domestic economy and predict less VAT revenues in the country by ten billion? It's called internal industrial and service activity, which is falling by about 10%, with a tendency to drop even more. When looking at non-tax revenues, taxes, fines, gambling revenues and the rest, Madam Minister, the rebalancing is the planned amount of increase. It can't be seen that the increase amounts are exactly the same in all these revenues, and that's exactly 72,063,675 dinars. It's exactly the same as last time it worked. This at first glance is not something to insist on (I do not insist, because the amount is very small), but it speaks of something much more serious, that the flat-rate revenues from taxis are determined, where guarantees that neither the projections of other budget revenues are done precisely. They can't happen to be exactly the same, in one dollar, tax revenues. You must know that. I would also like to remind you that the revenue fees that are regulated by law and that the increase in revenue on this basis is possible by introducing some new tax or by changing the amount of existing fees. Of course, all of this needs to be established by law. After this revenue side, let me analyze a little budget expenditure. Unlike the assumptions regarding budget receipts, which reflect the government's "optimism" relative to further import growth, external borrowings and the like, the plan to increase budget expenditure, I must say, it's very real. The increase in budget expenditure from 654.4 billion to 695.9 billion is the result, above all, of political agreements and pre-election promises. The budget rebalance envisions an increase in the amount of transfer funds for social insurance organisations of 13.475 billion dinars, most of which, 12.7 billion dinars or in a 150m-euro translation, is retired. This will not be a major contribution to the growth of our pensioners' standards, indeed it will not be, but it will be eaten by inflation, but will be a significant increase in budgets, will cause some inflation growth, as it is clean consumption. In addition, such isolation will be an obstacle to creating a greater development investment in state and real-sector investment projects. We have so far been the only country in Europe that has funded pensions from the budget and at a level greater than 40% of the total volume of pensions. Of course, the government doesn't say anything about reforming the pension system; there's little talk about extending the budget grant of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. The government could at least work for one micro-reform that would respect pensioners' rights and social needs and that it had previously proposed changes in the definition of minimum and maximum pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5605	The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5606	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, Article 226. I hold in my hand the draft budget rebalances. Each head and each function and economic classification shall have one item bearing the title – 423; these are services per contract. So I've chosen in this whole mass, and you'll see why, in chapter 8.1 -- diplomatic and consular representations, where that figure is 378,800,000 dinars and in chapter 210, that is, the same chapter 8.1, economic classification 423, which is 470,418,288 dinars. If you were to add all these items to economic classification 423, you would get a sum of billions of dinars. We don't see anything from this. So there's something that can be characterized as nontransparentity. I remember during the previous two governments, the finance minister came to MP clubs and we discussed these things and got an explanation for each item, especially as regards this classification of 423. It sounds amazing that you, in the further text in budget rebalancing, have, for example, a 424 classification of the Ministry of Health — the implementation of a national programme to prevent drug and alcohol abuse, which is 23 million, and that the development of an oncological health care programme and the screening of tumors amounts to only nine million! Let's ask a question like this -- if you have billions, hundreds of billions of dinars per contract, is there any concern of this government's health for the population, does anyone from the government even follow what the pathology of this population is? Is it possible that such insignificant sums in budget rebalancing can be allocated to such important preventive programmes? I will remind you of a part of Mr. Prime Minister's presentation -- part of the priorities of the Government of Serbia will be to strengthen social responsibility towards citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in order to improve living conditions, in order to improve health care and to reduce poverty. You've got a simple thing, you've got something in the budget rebalance for these important programs, and those who deal... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm done. Those who deal with healthcare know what kind of situation we're in, at least in these two areas. You have these items that are more than pathetic. It's about intransparentity, it's about irresponsibility, and it's about the inconclusiveness of this government on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5607	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5608	Dear colleagues and colleagues, at least I'll talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I call for a violation of Articles 101, 103, 104, and I want to speak on the basis of the provisions of Articles 225 and 226. In short, Mr. Shormaz asked a political question addressed to my party, the Serbian Renewal Movement. We of the Serbian Renewal Movement have indeed avoided using the right to replication and the right to appear by word according to the Rules of Procedure, although here we often mention our party and the president of our party in a peorative sense. The basic question was, if there were any assumptions that DS and SPS would make a political alliance in the next election, where would they be? The Serbian Renewal Movement will be, for the public's sake, needed to know, where it has been, loyal to tradition, Ravno Gora, but also to the modern European and Serbian right. The Serbian Renewal Movement is the right-hand side of the pro-European government's highway. Of course, Serbia's left pro-European side is also needed for security and balance of the road. We think that this balance, which will certainly be established, between the modern, European Serbian right and the modern, European left, is something that Serbia needs. As far as the budget is concerned, so as not to report later, I will say briefly that the MPs of the Serbian Renewal Movement will vote for budget rebalancing. We know that, and that's what Mrs. Finance Minister said in her opening statement, this is kind of a compromise. Because, don't forget that the finance minister has only been there for a few months, that many of the congested states and debts remain behind the previous governments and that the rights, to say the creative ability of both this government and the finance minister will come out in the adoption of the 2009 budget. I think that all MPs who point to a wave of major economic crisis affecting the whole world are right; it is certain that it will not go around Serbia either, it is certain that the economic activity will be reduced, the offer of more expensive loans will be reduced, investment activity will be reduced. In that regard, and in line with the IMF's recommendation, we are aware that the next budget will have to be significantly more restrictive. What we are particularly interested in from the Serbian Renewal Movement, and because of our programme declaration of decentralisation of government in Serbia, is when, in line with European principles, we will fully move into the process of financial decentralisation of Serbia, because the situation in eastern Serbia, in the south of Serbia, in the Raška area is very unsatisfactory and is extremely difficult for all layers of the population, especially farmers in the whole country. Therefore, the SPO will try to impose these topics as topics that are very important. And, of course, since we have made a significant contribution to Serbia's getting its own suit, to return to the anthem, the coat of arms and the flag, we will make our contribution to becoming finally a modern European state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5609	The word has a folk MP Dejan Radenkovic, followed by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5610	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, respected minister, has been defined as the framework for drawing up the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the 2008 Budget of the Republic of Serbia's Government, and this is: 1. the acceleration of infrastructure building and financial incentives for strategic investment; 2nd improvement of pensioners and socially endangered categories of population; 3rd support for raising the level of competitiveness of agriculture. This is proof that the government is socially responsible and ready to create new jobs and create conditions for economic growth by launching capital, infrastructure projects. The budget rebalance represents a real compromise. It is important that the rules of fiscal policy are not broken and that the budget takes into account both the global economic crisis and the modality to make the crisis feel as little about us as possible. The expenditure has been increased, above all, because of agricultural expenditure, in infrastructure ventures, as well as for increasing production, which is the basis for the development of the economy. I will specifically look back on Division 25 - Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. The Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija was established to ensure the functioning of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija in the fields of education, health, social policy, culture, infrastructure and telecommunications. The law provided additional funding of 200m dinars to realise the government's conclusion, specifically regarding the security of salaries, reformed and extended local self-government, public services, police, as well as the material costs of cities and municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija. The essence of the budget expenditure when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija is to ensure the sustainable survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, to create conditions for the launch of small and medium-sized enterprises, and that people are employed and tied to the area, to see their perspective in life in Kosovo and Metohija, not to have quiet eviction and discharge of Kosovo and Metohija. The most important thing is that the funds that go to Kosovo and Metohija are properly deployed and there is no collection of patriotism, that they are strategically deployed with the goal of living from their work, earning and enabling conditions for the return of more than 200,000 displaced persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5611	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. The DSS parliamentary group is available for six minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5612	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, is on the agenda of budget rebalancing and, by nature, one of the most important issues of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and budget rebalancing should be one of the most important topics. When this budget rebalance is made and what is the condition that budget rebalance be on the agenda? It usually happens when a sound budget income structure is not planned, or when unplanned expenditures occur. This time, the reason for the budget rebalancing was that the pre-election promises of the coalition currently forming the government, i.e. to cover the additional costs of forming the government. Among other things, the additional cost of forming this government is the announced increase in pensions, which this year will be 10%, and a further increase announced in next year, which will cause an additional deficit in this budget of only five billion dinars, the minister said. The budget rebalance envisions a total deficit of 45 billion dinars. Translated into figures, those more tangible, that's more than half a billion euros. So 45 billion dinars will be our shortfall in the government's register, the lack of funds we're making compared to what we're going to spend, out of 650 billion. So, about 7% of the proceeds will be shortfall in the cash register. The rebalancing proposed that the deficit be covered by additional borrowing, an increase in income, and this increase in revenues will come from increased taxis, which means a new imposition, so we overrun from hollow to empty, raise taxes and taxes to make the revenues bigger, and then, allegedly, we re-possess the revenues into public spending. Additional borrowing is also a model that should provide cover for deficits. We also heard from Madam Minister, in her opening exposé, that the debt structure, or the debt of the Republic of Serbia to foreign creditors, will be around 20 billion euros in 2010, in 2011 will grow to 24 billion, and in 2012, our debt to the abroad will be about 30 billion euros, if I remember correctly what you said. I mentioned earlier, and that seems to be an obvious fact, that the dinar is falling, and the reason for the dinar's downfall is, according to Governor Jelasic, and I believe him, the withdrawal of foreign investors. Tell me, how do you think you cover a deficit in this year's budget that is this big, and next year it's probably going to be bigger, if foreign investors withdraw, if they're going to pay us loans, that is, credit commitments are growing every year, and so is public spending? That's impossible. We are constantly increasing those spending sides, and income parties are either groping in place or shrinking. We will cover by increasing excise duties on gasoline, cigarettes, coffee or other goods, which only says that this government has no vision of how to improve or increase investments in Serbia, how to further employ the economy, to create a surplus value, and only then to talk about how much we can spend. I don't think we're going to get anywhere in this way and this kind of budget costs can only be able to make it even more difficult for years to come and even greater deficits in the budget and that Serbia's economy can't cover it. You have a paradoxical situation that average income in the economy is much bigger than in the economy. You have 1.5 million pensioners, with an additional trend of growth, which means an additional burden on the budget. You have a drop in employment in an economy that fills the budget, and you have an increase in employees in the economy, i.e. in the public administration. Here, in the case of the government and state institutions, it is seen in the structure of the rebalancing; the number of employees financed by the state has been increased, only in rebalancing, for the three months since the government exists, by 300 people. This government hired, and that's a good thing, 300 people, but where? In the state administration. She additionally burdened taxpayers with this. If it continues at this pace, God forbid, and the government lasts four years, we have a chance to get about 4,000 new people, but it will be very bad for Serbia, because these employees will be only burdens for the state and taxpayers, that is, economics. Let me give you an illustrative example. The Minister said the government has done a lot and is working to reduce unemployment. Based on the example of my city of Nis, which is known for one of the cities with the highest unemployment rate, I can say that nothing is done in that field. Let's say, since the seventh month of last year at the head of the National Employment Service, whose functioning is subject to one-off funding, and even in the rebalancing process, it is proposed to increase these funds for active employment measures... (President: seven minutes. )......................................................................................................... I'm done, just two more sentences. How is this done in practice? In just a year's time, since the new man came to the post of Director of the National Employment Service in Nis, which so far had about 100 employees, he's hired a new 30 people, and you can guess from where - from his parent party. That's how this government proposes that we bring budget rebalances... (President: seven minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... to support employment in the public administration, additional costs and additional burden on the economy. We at the DSS can't be so irresponsible and support this kind of budget rebalance, because it would be irresponsible by country. This government is not socially responsible, it is completely irresponsible, if we look at what kind of rebalance it proposes and what awaits us in the coming years.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5613	The word is by MP Nenad Popovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5614	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Mrs. Secretary, under Article 225 and Article 226, why do we have a linear pension increase, because this way additional pension benefits with the largest pensions will be greater than the total pensions paid by those with the smallest pensions? For example, a man with 90,000 dinars will have 99,000 and those with 8,000 pensions (unfortunately, such pensioners exist) will have less than 9,000 dinars. Today we have a budget of 2.17 billion dinars or 27m euros, in 2008 alone, for this business for the Fiat. Today, the entire automotive industry of the world has been worried about the results for this and next year because of the functioning of the financial crisis, and the government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to make the biggest state investment right now in the car industry. In the next period, investment was announced, in 2008 and 2009, about 250m euros in income from taxpayers from Serbia to the joint venture, and our property will be 33%. The government has taken over the role of Serbia's largest entrepreneur, and this cannot justify it. So far, we've done everything possible to end the privatisation process, and now we're going completely the opposite. As it started, instead of the Privatisation Agency, we will soon need a government firm management agency. The whole government and parliament had work to do, and the whole public of Serbia has been raised to its feet as far as this contract with the "Fiyat". We have all heard statements from the prime minister and ministers -- the 700m-euro investment of the Fijata. I have to say, I've read the contract, there's no investment of 700m euros by the Fiat; there's one single obligation in the Fiat contract, and that's 200m euros in equipment. For the record, we're not against the Fiat. Moreover, the Fiat is welcome and does not need to invest 700 million, the Fiat is welcome with seven million, but the Fiat should, like all other companies, or, by one, privatize one of our companies or, under two, do a greenfield investment, as it does everywhere in the world and as all of the world's companies do. I just have to add, as a state, we're taking part in this most risky business to date. The budget isn't someone's private business or this government, so it's on its own. That way, we risk this huge investment with private companies. I say, they are welcome, but as "Telenor", as "U.S. Steel", as "Ball Packing", as all other companies -- here you go, Greenfield or privatisation. Once again, I want to say, I'm sure this budget rebalance is really a matter of compromise, and I'm sure, that's my personal opinion, that the finance minister shares at least some percentage of my thoughts on the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5615	The word has a national emissary of Elena Christmas-Talian. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. After that, the People's MP Judita Popovic, then the MP of the people, Slobodan Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5616	Articles 225 and 226. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for the authorities and I want to draw attention to a very important topic, and it is about the fact that it is becoming increasingly obvious that the war crimes prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic and the War Crimes Prosecutor are outside of every system of government. The issue is a serious concern about the prosecution's extreme effects on the disappearances of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, their transportation to Albania and trade in their organs, as Carla del Ponte revealed in her book. Yesterday, Vukcevic and his associates visited Albania precisely because of this investigation. So it's very important what the results and effects of this investigation will be. The question is why did the government of the Republic of Serbia not first plead on this issue, why did it not ask for an official explanation from the authorities in Albania, why did the Foreign Ministry, as a resolution competent and authorised to co-operate with foreign officials, not first hold talks with representatives of the authorities in Albania? This order of steps would give the impression of a serious state. However, here the war crimes prosecutor, who is apparently responsible only for the CIA, makes his own international contacts and only goes to Albania for a meeting organised by the US Embassy in Belgrade and the US Embassy in Tirana. In doing so, Vukcevic himself declares: "In my assessment, it is international organised crime". This is a very dangerous statement. Vukcevic, although the investigation has just begun, concludes it is not a war crime but organised crime. So why didn't he go to Albania, why didn't he react to a special prosecutor for organised crime? Or might it be Vukcevic's role to push this crime under the rug and move it to the field of organized crime? How it is possible that Prosecutor Vukcevic and his prosecution are out of responsibility to the Republic's public prosecutor, that they are legally outside all control bodies, especially if we have in mind that Vukcevic and his prosecution are US political exhibits, not judicial ones. Let's just remember his open political statements. The war crimes prosecutor's office is obviously an ideological and political body and the image of the tribunal's judiciary in Serbia. The "tribunalised judiciary" syntagma refers to the most harmful phenomena and to the ugly manners in the area of judicial action, to the political character and dangerous precedents in the practice of international courts, set up by The Hague tribunal, and right now Vukcevic is the chief realiser of the judiciary's tribunal in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5617	I ask the service to forward a stenogram of presentation to Mr. Vukčević. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5618	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members and MPs, I would like to ask a question, within the meaning of Articles 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure, the present minister, as well as the members of the Government, in respect of certain facts that must have been known to the mandated proponent of this budget rebalancing law. Namely, the bill was handed over to the Assembly on 8 October 2008, so the question arises whether at the time the authorised proposer had any knowledge that the dinar was rapidly weak compared to the euro? Did the author have any knowledge that there is a serious economic crisis in the world of recession? Did the authorised promoter have any knowledge that large public sector gatherings are emerging and, above all, 60% gas collection? If the authorising officer had knowledge or could have had knowledge, it is obvious, in that case, that this budget rebalance is not planned in accordance with all these relevant facts. My second question concerns the fact that so far we have not had any valid indicators and valid control over how this budget is planned, whether all the laws of economic logic are used, or whether all this is based solely on politics. From what we've heard, politics is the main reason why this rebalancing is so proposed for the adoption of this assembly. Whatever the compromise is mentioned, the bill itself indicates that this compromise has been done more in favour of politics than economic logic. We need an independent state auditor, we need someone who can control and stop this uncontrolled public spending that is also proposed by this budget rebalance. Unfortunately, it is difficult to accept the fact that Serbia is a rather poor country, that its citizens are quite poor, and for this reason this real fact is not being found, but is being wasted in a senseless manner. You know, right there's one institution that indicates that if someone spends too much money, it's a waste of money, and if he's a waste of money, it's a vice, and it's necessary to limit his business ability. Therefore, if the state spends too much, it should also apply to the state, above all, because the consequences of this wastefulness are suffered by all citizens. Normally, LDP will not vote for this bill for all these reasons that we have stated, and we will point out other reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5619	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5620	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I have reported in accordance with Article. 225th and 226, since my parliamentary group has no time left. counterpart Natasa Micic and Mr Popovic spoke earlier about pensions, i.e. those pensioners who have 9,000 pensions will receive 9,000, and those who have 9,000 pensions will receive 900 dinars. We think it's a very big injustice. The minister, of course, is smiling again. I have to ask you, is it true that the Secretary of State is part of the Ministry of Finance of the PUPS? Do you have one such secretary of state? I'm interested, especially since the one who talks about pensions here forgets that he was once the head of the pension office. We're forgetting what time the pension fund was destroyed. That's what I have to say first of all because of the people of Vojvodina who had such a pension fund that they could, like the Netherlands, probably have reservations for 30 years. In 1992, however, a gentleman named Radoman Bozovic destroyed the Vojvodina pension fund, drowned it in a bottomless hole, more specifically the Serbian pension fund. Since then, pensioners in Vojvodina have had terrible problems. Also, I have to say it for personal reasons; my whole family, minors, everyone who's older than me is retired. We are really interested in improving the pensioner's position, but in this way, that you should redistribute the budget of 150m euros, in fact the four-year commission that Jugorosgas is taking, and that you represent it as some big progress, we think it's really not correct. Also, ten times less singled out for pensions than for Serbia's ski resorts, or for Dinkic's ministry. It is absolutely amazing that the ministers from one party are getting incredible increases in this budget rebalancing, and that, on the other hand, you're trying to show up as a socially responsible government. I repeat, you're raising your pensions by 10%; all of us in this assembly hall would like those pensions, not counting percentages, to be adequate and that people who are retired can organize their lives in the best possible way, but in this way, everything is truly unthinkable. That's what we've been saying for a month, that this increase won't bring anything, that they've already lost. We'd like to see the minister here. What a DSS colleague just noted is that Governor Jelasic's statement that foreign investors are withdrawing from the country. I don't know what you think... I'm very glad the IMF, if you make an arrangement, will have an advisory role here and I'm really interested in what this next budget is going to be like for 2009. Definitely can't do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5621	The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić. Time is available to the parliamentary group "Forward, Serbia" for five minutes and 30 seconds. After him, MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5622	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Serbian Progressive Party supports an increase in the agrarian budget by some seven billion, which was proposed by this budget rebalance. We think that the agrarian budget should have been even more increased. To that end, we have tabled one amendment with a proposal to increase the agrarian budget by another billion dinars. Of course, this increase proposed by this budget rebalancing will allow to improve the situation in our agricultural production as much as possible, and above all at the so-called so-called agricultural production. individual agricultural producers. They are the most affected by the lack of funds for agricultural production in the budget, in the agricultural budget. So far, they have not received all those privileges that belong to them in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations adopted by the Government. First of all, the increase of these funds will allow for the payment of all other subsidies to agricultural producers, and above all those paid per hectare of farmland; then, subsidies, for example, for breeding cattle. Our livestock industry has been significantly destroyed, and I think the state has to invest a lot more in livestock production. Also, this increase in the budget will allow for the payment of subsidies to cattle, mainly cattle, but also other species of animals. We must not forget that we have the European Union's approval that we can export about 8,700 tonnes of beef and that these few years we fail to achieve even half of that production. But increasing this budget will not be able to finance much of what the government and the ministry have received as an obligation to finance in the area of agrarians. First of all, this year is a significant reduction in the ability to purchase equipment, meaning, machinery and machinery, then the irrigation system, so that due to the change in funding mode, that only interest is subsidized from the budget, first of all the banks were not ready to approve in the larger amount, so on. long-term loans. On the other hand, due to the lack of funding for subsidisation so far, a small number of long-term loans have been financed to enable the purchase of equipment, notably machinery, combined, tractors, and especially irrigation equipment. Furthermore, the government has received a commitment, i.e. The Ministry, to subsidize the insurance of agricultural production. This is very important, because we are faced with major climate factors and an increasing number of agricultural producers ensure agricultural production. Because of the lack of funds, it has been impossible for more entities to secure their production and for that part of the insurance premium to be compensated from the budget. Furthermore, in order to improve our agricultural production and create more competitive production, it is necessary to introduce international standards in agricultural production. There were no funds in the budget for these purposes, and this year very little has been subsidized. Finally, where agricultural production is the most deprived through a lack of budget until this period of rebalancing, it is an incentive of agricultural production in rural areas. Our villages are permanently old, a significant depopulation of the population has occurred and our country has to invest much more in agricultural production precisely in these environments, with the goal of keeping more young people involved in agricultural production. All that I brought to the SNS is certainly something the government must consider when forming a new budget for 2009. It is necessary that, in a significantly larger scale, the exactly agrarian budget is helping to make agricultural production more significant in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5623	I'm setting a break from 90 minutes to 15 hours. We continue the afternoon part of the session according to applications for the word of the MPs and the first word will be given to MP Boris Aleksic, followed by Parliament MP Mileta Poscurica. The "Forward, Serbia" parliamentary group has used all the time available to the parliamentary group, so that after MP Boris Aleksic, the word will be Pai Momcilov. [[After break – 15:00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. The word has been given by MP Vladan Jeremic, followed by MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5625	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, and I mainly join the discussions of MPs who participated in the debate on the proposed budget rebalancing. It is evident that this bill on budget rebalancing the government of the Republic of Serbia, namely the cabinet of Mirko Cvetkovic, has obviously not respected the country's economic reality, so I believe that this is only a further confirmation of what we have indicated in the SRS parliamentary group, especially since the day Mirko Cvetkovic's government was formed – that Serbia will continue on that path, through an eight-year, economic and economic sunrat, although through those regimeal media, experts and other remethyling factors of Serbia's citizens are in a position to believe that the conditions of life do not know how good they are. So, even the governor of the National Bank of Serbia noticed that Serbia continues to spend more than it produces, or earns, so that it was absolutely justified to hear all the criticisms that we could hear from economic experts and here in discussions of fellow MPs about the proposed budget rebalancing. It simply all comes down to the fact that several important parameters are obviously not considered. Of course, we have not been missed, nor can we pretend to be ignorant and ignorant when it comes to the global financial market crisis, as well as inflation and, of course, excessive public spending, but I do not mean, of course, on the salaries of health employees, education, judiciary, etc. While I have already mentioned inflation, which has scared us so deeply in front of each election cycle, I think it is truly devastating data, given that the inflation average shown in March, April and May indicates that at the annual level inflation could reach even 14%, which would be an extremely high percentage for Serbia. The main pressure, of course, comes from the price of electricity, energy, agricultural food products, and certainly should not specifically highlight what will cause this latest increase in gas prices by 60%. We are witnessing that this government of Mirko Cvetkovic, or Boris Tadic, will, however, become a leader in the region, but unfortunately, after that new inflation because it is in most countries below 10%. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the projected minus in this year's budget account was 1.5% of gross social product, while some first estimates say that after this budget rebalance, it could increase to 2.5%. Framework estimates, i.e. accounts, talk about a possible minus in the state register after rebalancing and go to a figure of as much as 800m euros. All are well-known for the fact that exports are low, consumption is high, while the current payment balance deficit has increased to 18% of the value of the gross domestic product. I believe that in this past period, although the government has assessed its effect with an A, but this is according to that people's "thanks to the Ciga of its donkey", it has had to take much more account of the need to reduce the fiscal deficit that has emerged over the past two years. Some balanced budget policy, which Mirko Cvetkovic's cabinet obviously failed to realise, was supposed to open up space for larger public investment, but it remains an abstract concept. A major problem is the implementation of appropriate measures in the monetary sphere, which should first and foremost focus on the suppression of inflationary pressures, which, based on indicators, especially these last few days, has absolutely not been done. Also, the additional problem is that unreal pre-election promises, starting with free shares, etc., but here I primarily think about the increase in pensions that should reach those famous 70% of the average employee earnings in 2009. So, as far as we are concerned in the SRS, we believe that this proposal for budget rebalancing is absolutely unacceptable, and in the ruling majority, the creators of this kind of policy, should certainly worry about this information, i.e. the warnings coming from your favorite international institutions, and above all I think of the IMF, where it is clearly warned that Serbia's budget deficit could increase to about 5% of the value of the gross social product, due to this projected tax reduction and increased investment in the travel network and other infrastructure facilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5626	Before I give my word to the MP, Alexander Pejcic, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you, on the basis of Article 85(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that today we will work after 18 hours; we will continue to discuss the item of the agenda that is in progress at that time. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5627	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 85, by the Chairman. Namely, I will quote Rules of Procedure, item 1: "Sessions of the National Assembly at which the bill, development plan, spatial plan, budget, final account, Rules of Procedure, Declarations, Recommendations, Decisions, Conclusions and authentic interpretations of acts adopted by the National Assembly are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays in time from 10 to 18 hours, with an end of one hour", which is 60 minutes. You gave, Madam Chairman, a 90-minute break. You seem to have preferred cocktails rather than working in this congregation. It is good that Serbian citizens are watching this transmission, to see who is obstructing parliament. So, right now, Parliament's obstruction is being done by the chairman and the ruling majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5628	There is no infringement of Article 85, the break is given with an explanation; it is normally 60 minutes and is normally at 14 hours, and at the chairman of the National Assembly or at the chairman's office it is that for a given working day it determines whether it is at 14 and whether it is 60 minutes, or if it is less or more, as it is required to determine the breaks of another nature, if necessary for the normal course of the session. The announcement of today's marking of 150 years since the adoption of regulations on the National Assembly was given at the beginning of the session and was given in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5629	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to take advantage of the possibility under Article 226. The Rules of Procedure, because I need information to carry out my parliamentary duties. In fact, materials came to our parliamentary club in the break, including the draft deposit insurance law. I'm sorry there's no Madam Minister to answer this question directly. Namely, the proposed law says no additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget is needed to implement this law. Her deputy, State Secretary Mr. Slobodan Ilic, says the state guarantees 99% of the savings stakes and that for the state guarantee there are several basics: the first foundation is the Deposit Insurance Fund, which will amount to 74m euros at the end of the year, the second -- 40% of the money that citizens save in banks is at the National Bank of Serbia and the third -- Serbia's budget. In Serbia's proposed budget rebalancing, there is no item anywhere (at least I haven't found it, and I've looked very well) regarding the guarantee of citizens' deposits. So, the state guarantee is increasing from 3,000 euros to 50,000 euros, which is a good thing, the government and the finance ministry have accepted our proposal to increase the state guarantee for deposits, but it is said that the state, or budget, will guarantee those deposits, and the bill says no additional funds are needed. Additional funding is needed, at least 500 million dinars, and there is no budget rebalancing in this proposed budget. I want more information on how it's possible it's not there. I found items that concern the purchase of giraffes, I found items that concern the increase in pensions, additional expenditures for new employment in the government, which are over three hundred, but what concerns the guarantee of citizens' deposits here is gone. Is it a technical error? Is it a random or deliberate failure?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5630	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5631	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that the minister will soon appear in this room and that we will receive answers to questions asked by MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia. I am taking this opportunity to ask a question under Article 226, given that a mission of the International Monetary Fund to stay in our capital is present today in Belgrade by 9 November 2008, meaning the next two weeks. It will meet with representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia and with representatives of the National Bank of Serbia. Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic recently said the topic of talks with representatives of the International Monetary Fund will be the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia, as well as a new arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. We had a chance to hear from Prime Minister Cvetkovic the other day, who said a recession could be expected in Serbia in the coming years. The recession by definition means less wages, less pensions, less investment, less employment. These are all those problems that we pointed out would hit us both in this year and next, and some parties from the ruling coalition highlighted the problems as ideas leading their pre-election campaign. IMF experts do not need to be smart enough to conclude this, they will tell representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia, all the populists sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia, that Serbia expects a major economic crisis in the coming period. I have a question, given that Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, Vice-President of the Government of Mr. Jovan Krkobic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, as well as Deputy Prime Minister of Science, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, who is the champion of the population of Serbia, who has deceived the citizens of Serbia and who will be the first to come before the citizens of Serbia and tell them that all their promises have fallen into the water and that they have agreed that these promises will be fulfilled? There's nothing since retirement. The fact that you're going to increase your pensions by 10%, and given everything that's going on in the financial system of the Republic of Serbia, the whole of Europe and everything, tells us that this is a simple colourful lie and that it really won't be anything in the next year. Let us be open to the citizens of Serbia, come out here for a pay phone and say, "We lied to the citizens of Serbia."
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5632	The word has the People's MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5633	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, regarding the rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's budget, I would at first draw your attention to our country's enormous responsibility. On page 121 of the item - foreign interest payments we see that foreign interest payments of the Republic of Serbia during 2008 are scheduled to amount to 12,324,811,000 dinars, and interest payments to foreign governments of 6,393,254,000 dinars, etc. I think at this point we need to remember the experiences Argentina had during the big debt crisis. I'll get you some information on these unpleasant events. At the time of the military dictatorship in Argentina, the country's external debt increased 5.5 times. The International Monetary Fund has planned and advised generals, even a senior official of this organisation, Mr Dante Simon, was a mediator at the Argentine Central Bank at the time of military dictatorship. Under international law, debt made by a dictatorial regime is considered a dubious, dubious claim, and the state is not obliged to repay it. However, following the establishment of democracy in Argentina in 1985, the IMF pressured President Raul Alfonsin to recognise this debt. Although the president had the legal basis to reject the Fund's request, he accepted their condition. The contract recognised a reduced debt. We see here immediately the similarity with the events related to our country and the words that the DOS officials once referred to that on 26 November 2001 the Paris Trustees' Club wrote off 66% of the debt to Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia received 22 years for the payment of $1.8 billion with a six-year grace period, while with $4.562 billion in long-term debt, the Paris Club reprogrammed 648 million in short-term debt. Similar negotiations were conducted with the London Club, which makes up a group of about 600 commercial trustees that our country owed 2.2 billion dollars to. Representatives of the Serbian government then and now forgot to mention that they actually contributed to the recognition of 34% of the dubious debt most recently made by Tito's dictatorial regime during the 1960s and 1970s. So I remind you once again, according to international law, he does not have to return because of the risk of investment in countries under the dictatorial regime. The question arises whether the parties that are in power believe Tito's regime was dictatorial or not? The problem today is that Serbian citizens pay debts for which they would not have to pay a single dinar under international law. The worst part is that future generations will pay off those debts, which brings us all together into uncontrollable debt slavery. Serbia's external debt exceeded $28 billion this year, though it was $12.3 billion in 2003 and was projected to be $10.5 billion in 2010. Indemnity per capita has long passed 1,500 euros. Serbian citizens were credited to 311.9 billion dinars at the end of August, which means that citizens' debt increased by 5.8% compared to the end of last year. These are indicators of the Serbian Banks Association. Now we can go back to South America and Argentina again because they have the worst possible scenario. What leads to uncontrollable borrowing is best seen in the case of South America. The IMF and World Bank creditors in some countries (Haiti, Peru, Dominican Republic) have secured themselves the right to collect taxes and taxes based on borrowing payments. credit. In other cases, Mexico exploited major export resources, so oil revenues went through New York bank accounts controlled by US Federal Reserves. In order to avoid confusion, these are facts published in the French press, in "Mondu" and "Mond Diplomatics". Creditors often imposed their legal jurisdiction in resolving disputes, and they did not go too far from military intervention to realise their claims. From 1980 to 2000, private creditors charged $192 billion from Latin America more than the amount they borrowed. In 1999 and 2000, the Latin American countries paid $86.2 billion more than they borrowed. The IMF made 71.3 billion dollars available to Argentina between 1980 and 2000, while it returned $86.7 billion. So the IMF made $15.4 billion. From 1982 to 2000, Latin America paid all its creditors an incredible sum of $1,450 billion, four times its debt of 1982. Argentina's external debt in 2004 was 130 billion dollars, although Argentina paid more than $200 billion over 25 years. Something similar is waiting for us. In July 2000, the Argentinean court, in a ruling based on 195 pages, exposed the illegal nature and guilt of the IMF and the federal reserves of the United States due to the country's poverty. A great help in this process was given to the IMF and the World Bank by newly combined Argentine capitalists, tycoons, who gradually deprived the Argentine economy of its basic substance - industry. We see similarity here to our country. Interestingly, some South American states have managed to end their economic crisis. During the 1930s, 14 countries suspended debt payments on a longer term. Among the great debtors, Argentina alone paid regular debts, without interruptions. These solutions led Argentina to a catastrophic crisis in 2001, which is known to everyone. I'd like to give you one more piece of information. Namely, one of the most famous lies brought about by our own owners is that Serbia's largest donor is the European Union. First, the European Union takes interest for its funds, sets economic conditions, ultimatums or receives political concessions. Moreover, by sending Eulex to Kosovo and Metohija Brussels, he made an effective recognition of the southern Serbian province. Secondly, the fact is that Serbia's largest donor is a Serbian emigration that quietly but continuously injects between two or three billion euros each year, asking for nothing for that money. This is a good place to wonder why our government does not create joint projects with Serbia's largest donors, Serbian emigration. If only 5% of the time devoted to the European Union dedicated to Serbian emigration, Serbia's citizens would soon feel an economic improvement. However, it is well known that tycoons in Serbia, owners of dirty or suspiciously acquired capital, which are in line with the regime, do not allow clean capital to be placed in Serbia. It's simply not in their interest. The clean capital would mean a loss of profits, an impact on the government of Serbia, and a loss of high fees and opportunities for instant wealth for officials in Serbia. Let's just look at how many successful athletes, scientists and businessmen from Serbia who are not allowed by tycoons to place their pure capital in Serbia. Instead, our government, working with tycoons, deepens corruption and, of course, further owes the country and all citizens, bringing them into debt slavery. In doing so, the excuse for everything is the European Union. Today, the words "European Union" replaced the word "Tito", while the red pentagram was replaced by yellow. It's the mantra of today's owners. The whole psychology, which also refers to the current regime, describes Zinov's time by introducing the term "homo sovekus", describing it as a psychology of fatalism present in people who do not believe in their own forces but only what happens to them on the outside or on the side, and patiently await the promised bright future. So I ask you to reconsider and not deepen the debt crisis that is ruling in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5634	The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic. After her is the word of the People's Messenger of Pai Mamchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5635	The increase in pensions to 70% of the average wage is economically unsustainable, as this would increase the budget deficit by 2.7% of the domestic gross product. This is the latest warning coming from the President of the World Bank for Southeast Europe. Our own owners are not enough, because, they said, the global economic crisis does not negatively affect Serbia; we are some special, isolated world entity. Not only will it not affect negatively, but we will profit greatly from the global economic crisis, at least God says "cannabis" and gives the honorable aunt's pioneer word. Depending on the needs of our ministers, we can conclude that the global economic crisis affects Serbia selectively. We listen daily to the statements made by two Deputy Prime Ministers, Mr Dinkic and Mr Krkobic, where the first from time to time are called into mind and says that the announced pension increase will bring down the country's economic stability, and then the second, which is not clear what Dinkic is talking about and, in the end, does not care because he is socially responsible. Gentlemen, I ask you, what were you thinking when you formed a government and patted each other on the shoulder, agreeing to what conditions and wishes of coalition partners? Should the next ten generations pay the price of your extremely irresponsible and economically irrational agreements? Far from not being able to increase pensions, but in this way it can't because pensioners of this kind will absolutely not benefit, and irreparable damage will suffer both the entire financial system of the state and all citizens. The funds allocated to raise pensions must be compensated from somewhere. The budget must be filled from somewhere, and as we can see, it is charged with an increase in the price of gas by 60%, an increase in the price of subscription and phone impulses, from rising prices of municipal services, electricity, urban transport. As we can see, that's not enough, either, which shows an enormous deficit in the budget. What, then, will pensioners benefit from an increase of 10% when their cost of life increases multiplely? Not to mention this kind of linear pension increase doesn't make any sense. What of this increase has a pensioner who has a pension of 8,000 dinars, can these additional 800 dinars finance all these purchases? We've received hundreds of calls where pensioners are telling us to transfer to the government -- don't defend us anymore, besides friends like this, we don't need enemies. Therefore, I repeat, the New Serbia proposal is that this regulation on the linear increase in pensions is replaced by a regulation that will raise the first lowest pensions to some extent acceptable, and then increase from the rest of the funds and other pensions. There is no country in the environment that has moved far beyond Serbia in its reforms, with pensions at 70% of the average salary. This relationship is the most favourable in Hungary, where pensions amount to 62% of the average salary. Remember that Hungary is a member of the European Union. In doing so, Serbia is the country where there is the most unfavourable relationship between employees and pensioners, where two million employees finance1. 600,000 pensioners. This relationship is permanently unsustainable if it is known that the employed population is actually the main funder of pensions. The pension payment is based on a merger of employees' contributions to the Pension-Invalid Insurance Fund, where these funds are used for current payments to pensioners and other social security recipients. In order for the pension system to be sustainable, adequate demographic characteristics of the population are necessary, as well as strong economic performances of the economy as a whole. There should be a minimum of three to three-and-a-half employees per pensioner, and according to the latest surveys, 1.25 employees come to a pensioner, which means that the number of employees and the number of pensioners tends to be equal, so that soon every employee will get his pensioner. I must point out that during the 1960s, there were six or seven employees on each pensioner. Given that we are among the ten oldest nations in the world, that our natural growth is very low, that we have almost a million unemployed, that our domestic gross product is among the lowest in Europe, it is clear that our pension system is, as it is, absolutely unsustainable. We have a situation where 200,000 pensioners live below the poverty line. The situation cannot be solved by an increase of 10%. A permanent solution to the problem would be the introduction of voluntary pension insurance that works by the employee having a special account to which the employer is obliged to pay part of the employee’s contribution, whereby the worker at any time has insight into the balance of the account, and the funds from that account are invested i.e. They're capitalizing. So once again, I ask you to take such serious topics seriously and stop dealing with short-term solutions that bring no good to anyone in this country and which exclusively serve for the purpose of fulfilling your mutual coalition agreements. Another thing that probably citizens are telling you about is an incredible wave of gatherings. The collection of gas at 34.01 for households, 41 dinars for consumers heating up on the remote system represents almost two-thirds of average earnings in Serbia, so it is logical to ask the question of what can be bought for the rest of the average net earnings, which according to data from the Republic Statistics Institute for September 2008 is nominally lower by 0,49% and realistically by 1.38%. In September 2008, prices rose to a little by 6.7% compared to December 2007. In September 2008, life costs rose by 6.8% compared to December 2007. Official data at the same time suggest that in August, the average consumer basket for the four-member family was 32,692,40 dinars, with purchasing power from city to city dramatically differing and almost in all cities by several thousand exceeds the average monthly earnings. The most unfavourable relationship these two parameters have in Valjevo, where the average monthly earnings of 26.384 dinars need to be filled with a consumer basket of 33,236 dinars. How? Will Houdini help? Prices in Serbia are not a reflection of real market developments, but as a result of political turbulence on our political scene, as a result of currently funding the wishes and demands of coalition partners. For the sake of party interests and personal benefits, monopoly structures and cartel associations are persistently tolerated. In this way, rather than strengthening the economic structures, party infrastructures are strengthened. At least think about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5636	The word of the people is of the Messenger of Pai Momchilov, and after him is the messenger of the people, Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected presidency, we are discussing budget rebalancing; Serbian Radical Party MPs have already decided that they cannot vote for such a rebalancing proposal. This is not the development budget, we saw from the debate and it is quite clear that these want some pre-election promises to be fulfilled. It is certain that it is a cover for something already spent; unfortunately, a good part of it has been spent on previous elections and those magnificent campaigns run by party participants. When Madam Minister here gave very briefly her opening statement, I thought at the first moment -- you see, the minister is a very rational and smart woman. Because you have that rule in court, when you have to defend yourself for something, then the lawyer tells you to talk as little as possible. The ultimate measure of it is to defend yourself with silence. Therefore, the minister did not defend herself with silence, she presented a very short exposé. However, when the answers started, there was a problem, and with many answers, we absolutely disagree. The Minister, who's a professor at the Faculty of Economics, says she's satisfied with this rebalance and she's in a big... Yeah, you said that and you said, I'll tell you exactly why, you said - because we're showing fiscalization realistically. That's your word. It doesn't matter. When you increase the deficit by 1.9, what was in the previous budget, to 2.7, you say that you are relatively satisfied. How can you be satisfied when you have a negative trend? You deceived Simon Grey of the World Bank, and you said that from 2% of the deficit will be up to 2.5%. A nice man says that in a statement. If you read the memo that the IMF sent on December 24th, where they tell you nicely - if you have drawn the tax policy you promised, if you will raise your pensions, then you will come to a big problem and you will have 5% of the gross deficit. That's what the gentleman says, I don't want to quote him, Albert Jaeger. I can give you a copy of where he said it. By drawing something that you're going to realize, you're going to go into something that's even worse. We have a balance of 18%; well, it's not a big deal, 500 billion dinars are always spending more than we produce, than we create. So, what are we doing? We're taking loans to cover it, or you're saying the situation isn't scary. However, economists disagree, both domestic and foreign; they show you that this is a problem and that this can be terrible, especially when we look at the economic situation that is happening in the world, and it will certainly hit us. Of course, reducing public spending is what everyone's talking about. How are you going to settle 490,000 government salaries next year, 1,600,000 pensions next year, and we have 800,000 unemployed? You say -- well, it's not our state apparatus and that public sector that big, it's somewhere else and more. Let's take Austria, there's 8.1 million people, by some numbers. I'll do my best to get the numbers out, to please you. We had 730,000 residents, according to statistics from Serbia's statistical office. Now look, we have 490,000 government salaries, and they have 383,000 government salaries and you say -- well, in the world it's different. Well, in what world, say, Austria is a developed land. Why do we have an expensive country? We talked about it here. The Minister's got something on her left-to-right, up and down, I don't know what that means to her. Look at the expensive state we have: in 2001, there were 8,099 civil servants in the administration, and now we have 27,891, with all your agencies, with all your secretaries, cabinets that follow. That's what the government gave for two former ministers, we can skip it, that's an accident. Look at that train park, 80 people driving around for 24 hours. I don't want to talk about the health ministry's fleet, which I know very well, to leave it behind. You have these public enterprises, they don't privatize, why? These are gold cokes for ruling parties that can make the director's income there. One of my fellow MPs said the salary in the flock is 20,000 euros. I don't believe it, it's something fantastic and impossible, but we heard it's 13,000 euros in NIS. That's where the listeners and the officials settle, and that's why we have so much public spending. Reduce the state apparatus, reduce the projects, the insidious ones, that are being done. Here's what 40 projects are currently being done in medicine, where people spend money on loans, and these are non-transparent projects, mostly, and that's something that also eats our dinar. Of course, what doesn't exist for you, stop corruption, and you'll have a better budget. I'm a doctor and it makes sense to talk about medicine. What you've offered here as a budget is scandalous. The health ministry said the budget is now 12 billion, and the last budget was 10 billion. Take a good look at those items, what do you see as an explanation? The explanation, I quote, "After considering the execution of certain funds, the Ministry of Health estimated that savings could be made", and then suggested that some programs be rerouted to something else and said this way: "In this way, there has been an increase in the allocation of the total amount of 217 million dinars for capital investments relating to the reconstruction of health institutions". The difference is two billion, look at the previous budget. Where's the explanation for the difference? I know, it's funny: the broadcasting agency gave some income to the Ministry of Health, the NIS gave some income, but the good part of it is credit, and it's scandalous how you explain this. That's why we're asking other members of the government to be present, not because we're trying to create some kind of parade and circus, but to get these explanations. You can't answer this, I'm sure 100%. In the end, I'd say, it's scandalous what kind of politics you run. We follow the memorandum of budget and economic fiscal policy. In each memo, you give a second rate spent on health care. In three consecutive terms, three different rates are indicated. I will only read one thing: the financing of public health functions increased from 5.5% of gross national income in 2005 to 6% in 2007, which is high compared to international standards. In other official data from this country, which is provided by health care officials, as you have shown in Europe, there is 8%. The Batut shows 7% of the cost and 6%. Wherever you go, different percentages everywhere, but the difference between 2% of gross national income. Who are you government, who are you? They talk to each other. But most likely to lie, here are the World Health Organization data: there is consumption of 8% of gross national income. And what you want to reduce to 5.9 is criminal to this people. The World Health Organization said - a minimum of 5% of gross national income for the world's most underdeveloped countries. If you see Europe, the average is 8%; developed countries - 10%; England, Germany, I'll give you all the numbers, I've prepared for you to have you. I gave it to Minister Cvetkovic last time; he took it, he didn't say it wasn't true. To finish with that cemetery of yours, and there I have prepared for you the data; unfortunately, more and more are dying in this country. I'll only read you two numbers and I'll let you see this: 12 people died in our country in 1995 on 1,000 people, in 2005 14. It's processed data. Don't think I've been ripped off for two years, if you follow the trend you'll see that trend has been rising for many years, since 2000. What you want to reduce, it's a shame and a shame. You want to further endanger the biological integrity, which is already at risk, because we're getting smaller and smaller in these areas. Madam Minister, don't roll your eyes, please, they're real numbers. You've advocated the numbers, I've read you the numbers, please, deny, say, Momchilov, you're wrong, the numbers are different, and I'm going to hand this all over to you. Thank you. I think it's clear why Serbian radicals can't vote for a budget this far-fetched, so misexplained.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5638	National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and has a word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5639	Mrs. Komic, given that we have received from the minister, as professor, the teaching that we are moving in a world of figures, not opinions, etc., in accordance with Article 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I think it would be good for the public in the Republic of Serbia to learn something, and I must say that there is no such thing in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. These MPs who have been in this assembly for a long time, one or two terms of office, I remind you that there is no longer a word for "memorandum" in this proposal for a rebalancing law. They used to swear it; if we say something, they say -- it's according to the memorandum, we bring this, so it's all planned in two years ahead, it's a mid-term plan. Now in the rebalancing law, there's no word for memoranda, forget it. That's the new doctrine, the new theory. Mrs. Komic, I'd like you to turn this bill around and look at page 17. There is a division 3.12 – Government Air Service. The government Air Force has a total of 30 employees. If there's a crew of one plane, make it five, it turns out we have six planes in the government, but we don't have any information on how many planes we have in the government. But if you get on a JAT plane and you go, since we only have international flights, when you take that no-God manual, you'll get a monthly check-up, their current month list, and the last page is exactly how many JATs there are. Our JAT has 16 planes, so it says: 737-300, 737-400, and we have those propellers. We don't even have the basics here as many planes as they have, but we have information that the Air Force will cost 263,181,784 dinars, and it's for transportation, according to the explanation, for the competent state authorities. I don't know from the National Assembly someone that flew that plane. We don't have that information for the government either. And for the President of the Republic, but he says he can do it for the third person on the market. However, there is a section here -- your own income, column seven, how much they earn on that basis. Groh funds go to repair and maintenance. I wonder if anyone in this government can tell us if we have seven planes, two helicopters, one plane, that JACK 40 that Tito got another sixty-six years from the Russians, or who knows. Please, transparently. For a time, Cane Sobotić was driving the government, he had his own plane, so some used services because Djindjic paid for that plane, he says - it's much cheaper than getting another plane. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm gonna have to take this again because I wasn't really sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5640	There's no damage to article 136. The acts you received in the procedure were delivered to all MPs in accordance with Article 136, so there is no injury to the member. The word is by MP Riza Halimi, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5641	Dear Mrs Comic, dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will briefly refer to the specificities of our area. At first, I would notice, however, that in the global financial crisis, in addition to a bunch of problems that our society has, it is difficult to form a rebalance, and also a budget that is waiting for us for next year, and that balances the social and development components. I hope that the amendments will also be corrected by making a better project, which would satisfy both components. It is good that this rebalancing is an increased position of subsidies for economic development, because it is a chance to solve the problems we face faster. In all of this, however, I would notice that the old story about even regional development, about the development of the underdeveloped, has even used the term of extremely undeveloped areas before, remains still the main theme, and we have failed to make a more serious shift. By my estimate, there's an increase in lagging behind. In the case of Preshevo municipality, it's quite clear. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, we were at the level of one fifth of national income per capita, so five times less developed than the national average. Now, unfortunately, we arrived at one week; according to the latest data from the Bureau of Statistics, 14.8% compared to the national average of the corrected national income per capita. These data give a picture of the most underdeveloped municipality, and there are similar: Bears and a number of other municipalities that are slightly more developed, but mainly in the context of this general underdevelopment. I absolutely don't believe that with this proposal for a little bit longer, but perhaps in the next budget, we'll make sure that something more serious is done when it comes to the development of undeveloped areas and that this gap or this difference doesn't increase anymore, that we try to reduce it. Now I would like to transfer the discussion to the field of the famous Co-ordination Body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. They talk here, and also to the public, that there was created, the Maltenes, Eldorado, that there was a stream of fabulous resources and that the other municipalities were left without those funds. I think that the irresponsible statements made by individual officials of the Coordination Body, including certain governments in this period, have created this illusion, as the data clearly states that the funds provided for this area through the Coordination Body are well below the average of investment investments in the country. They have almost provided data from the Coordination Body; for nine years the operation of the Coordination Body is provided with information that 1,155,000 dinars from the Republic budget through the Coordination Body are provided to the Presevo municipality, which averages 128,000,000 dinars per year, which per capita in the Presevo municipality is 3,600 dinars. This is twice as much compared to NIP funding in this year, if the average per capita is calculated, and several times, six or seven times lower than the investment activity dynamic at the state level, six or seven times lower than the national average. There's a question of where the funds went. Well, it was an area where nothing or quite a bit has been invested for decades. There were armed conflicts. It was not only for development, for investment, but also for the resolution of such a situation that we had during 1999 and also in 2005 during armed conflicts. I argue that it is a far better situation than in previous decades, but it is far from reaching some investment activity process that has other municipalities, not more developed than the average municipalities in Serbia. I'm opening this problem here, not what one of the radicals said, I see again coming out with the amendment, that instead of the Co-ordination Body for Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja now needs for southern Serbia and for a number of municipalities. It's not a model. They won't get anything from these other municipalities, because by competing through other funds they achieved far more than the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja through the Coordination Body; they were absolutely impossible to make funds through other development funds, but we were limited to the Coordination Body and the funds of the Coordination Body during this period. I think there's a chance now that the Coordination Body is reorganizing, that a new model is being set up, that it's really working there to train development capacities, professional capacities, to train these municipalities for sustainable development. This is probably true for a number of other municipalities in the wider area, where it is absolutely necessary to ensure that those in stronger competition are more efficient in achieving the funds of development funds and that they are working in parallel to the assistance that must be provided, I repeat again, in this component of professional, human capacities, so that these municipalities are able to deal equally with other municipalities. I think that there is the point and orientation that should be provided, and I hope that if not with this rebalancing budget for 2009, with one more adequate, more serious reorganisation of the Coordination Body, we will ensure that these municipalities, and what if not for all the most underdeveloped municipalities, have the opportunity to develop faster and arrive at least that average that is our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5642	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and received the word on the basis of article 100, so MP Dragan Stevanovic, the same basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5643	Mrs. Comic, I asked you to read it nicely. If you'd read what's written in the explanation, you'd see it's not enough. We can't function with the flat-rate data, the figures must be very precise, as the minister said. To move on, both for you and for the MPs and for these coalition partners of mine who are watching on TV. We have the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, but we also got the Office a few days ago, pay attention, I read as it is written, says the Office for Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas. Linguistically, it would turn out if they remained undeveloped, sustainable and maintained an existing position. That's when the frog sees the horse sweat, so let's knock a little. That office needs, practically from the moment we adopt this, to hire 20 new workers. Remember, this is the end of October, we have 60 days left by the end of the year. By the end of the year, they should have spent 1,556,341,820 dinars. You divide this amount by 60, so you're going to see what kind of consumption that's going to be per day. So that's where Saturdays and Sundays come in. That's the biggest consumption. Furthermore, is it known to anyone in this room whether there is an appeal court in Serbia? If anyone says there is, get me a piece of paper where he went to the Court of Appeal and the judge decided. Otherwise, there are 387 people on the payroll. Let's move on, we've got an administrative court. Please, somebody get me a lawsuit that started the administrative dispute in front of the administrative court. We have 61 employees here. The administrative court this year costs Serbia 47 million. Remember, Serbian citizens, it doesn't exist. The appeals courts of this country cost 655,752,744,00 dinars. No one lives knows. The mirage. So I don't get a ticket, ma'am, you can hardly answer when it comes to the world of numbers; these are some crazy numbers for something that doesn't exist. How can someone spend a billion and a half dinars in 60 days? It's maltene... I don't want to talk about pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5644	People's MP, no harm done to article 136. The acts in the procedure have been prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and the objections you make may be resolved by the submission of amendments or by the intervention of the Committee at the time from the end of the principle debate until the start of the debate in particular. So, you've been given the word to say that the injured member of 136 is referring to the preparation of the act in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and you have spoken essentially about those provisions, those parts, those positions in the amendment and the addition of the Budget Act to which the amendment is submitted, which I have no doubt that you know, so this is the kind of debate in the discussion of details, not the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5645	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated because of the fact that the previous speaker, not Mr Krasic, but Mr Halimi, was telling the truth. Namely, Mr. Halimi, you come from southern Serbia, you come from a municipality located in the Pcinj County and that, I repeat, is in southern Serbia. The amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party is absolutely in line with the Constitution and all the laws that are in line with the constitution. The category you are promoting here and trying to update, as you say, is unconstitutional and acts in some way against the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. It's your presevo Valley, which is basically not a geographical category, but exclusively political and which is in the background of separatists. You, Mr. Halimi, have now mentioned some armed conflicts. Now that you mention them, I think it would be good and useful to analyze your participation as well, that is, your contribution to all these conflicts and inconveniences that occurred in southern Serbia. It seems to me that in two or three terms you were president of Presevo municipality. I don't think your role in this whole story has been around. As for this issue of budgets and economic opportunities in southern Serbia, it is untasting to share your municipality in this context from any other municipality in southern Serbia. To prove and support this, I will tell you that in the past month, municipalities with the largest personal income in the Pcinj County were the Bujanovac municipality, a mixed-assembled municipality, where both Serbs and Shipari live, or Albanians, as you prefer. You would be correct if, as an MP from southern Serbia, you said that the municipality with the lowest average personal income and the worst economic indicators, but not in the Pcinj County, but in Serbia, is the municipality of Trgovište, which is 99.9% of Serbs. When you are so concerned about the people in southern Serbia, why don't you talk about the problems of the citizens of Bosilegrad municipality that is dominantly populated by the Bulgarian national minority? So don't every time you go out for this pay phone to use to promote some topics and some ideas that are objectively applied to both constitutional and any other damage to this country. Do not bring unnecessary unrest among the citizens of southern Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5646	People's MP Pai Momchilov wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5647	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I appeal to members 225 and 226, under which I have the right to receive information that is of interest to the work of our MPs from the SRS. Now, I'm going to look back on something that's part of the budget rebalancing, which is the plan of the Republic Health Insurance Office. We can't change the way we intervene on this document, it's well-known to you. I think we need to ask for some explanations. I said budget savings and public spending should be done in a way that is rational. It must be rational to fight an excessive administration. Be careful, you have 2.552 employees in this fund, and then it is said, I quote: "The number of employees in 2008 and in the coming years will continue to increase, in order to improve the qualification structure" etc. In 2001, the Fund had 60 employees, and now there are 200 employees in Belgrade. In 2001, the fund had three sectors, and now it has 14 sectors. Each sector has a director, a deputy director and a series of bosses and departments. Not to mention the other administrative apparatus. This year alone, 300 people were employed, mostly with the benefits of having party documents. It is also known from which parties these staff are recruited. What's also very interesting, the systematization here is the real director without a board of directors, has the right, and it stands out on the advertising board in the fund itself. What's very interesting is they have a voluntary insurance sector. Do we have any voluntary insurance? Two people work, pay, we pay, Serbian citizens pay, and that's a normal situation. Where can we see here what costs are for the new building that was built on Dedinj, how much did it cost the citizens of Serbia, and is that even necessary next to that much space, SIV 1, 2 and 3 that remained after the reduction of this country? Please answer if that's okay. Give me the information on why this is like this. Let me finish, let those who are financials understand. Every normal government seeks the well-being of its citizens. Welfare is measured by the quality of life, and in the quality of life, health is the most important, understand. Investment in healthcare is not a spending process but an investment, sustainable development, the definition of the World Bank and the World Health Organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5648	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. And Riza Halimi asked for a replica. The right to reply, mentioning the parliamentary group in the presentation of MP Riza Halimi, the word is Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5649	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, given that Mr Halimi mentioned the parliamentary group in a negative context, I just wanted to draw attention to both you and the public, it may have gone unnoticed, and it is important to define it precisely. Mr. Halimi said there were also some armed conflicts in Presevo. As far as I know, no armed conflicts on Serbia's territory have been since NATO's aggression on the SRJ pact. I believe that you, Mr. Halimi, as an experienced MP and president of the municipality in several terms are referred to how many municipalities are in the same position as Presevo. Let's say, the Bookie might be in an even worse position, because absolutely no company works anymore; they're privatized and they're "Leda," and "Gerwin" and IMT, and there's literally no one working there because there's nowhere to work. Sometimes, for example, the Librarian had more employees than a working-age population. Now there's general unemployment. Look in the wider context of Serbia. When you're looking for some information from the Bureau of Statistics or some ministry about a phenomenon that reflects on your municipality, give it to the parallel with other municipalities. Don't just look south at Serbia or, as you say, the Presevo Valley, which is a completely unacceptable geopolitical concept. Ask for information to see little about how things are in eastern Serbia, in western Serbia, and also in central Serbia -- the Rekovac municipality, I believe, is nothing more developed than your municipality. So it's clear to all of us that we live in general poverty, and that we have a wasteful budget and a wasteful administration. I'll only give you one piece of information, and you've nominated here, and you've always voted with the authorities. For example, in 2000, the Ministry of Education had about 400 employees, and now it has 1,400. Well, you see if such an economy can finance such a administration. That's the case with every ministry in Serbia. I just needed to draw your attention to the concept of armed conflict because I think it needs to be clarified and to understand that unfortunately, it is not only Presevo municipality in such an uninvited situation, but perhaps even 80% of municipalities in Serbia. Serbia lives in four cities, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5650	The word has the People's MP Riza Halimi, right to replication based on direct reference. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5651	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, all right, are in these replicas on my discussion and ignorance of the situation, have young colleagues and should be forgiven. After all, today I didn't even mention the term - Presevo Valley. There's a complex created here, and when I don't mention it, it reacts without need, and so far I've explained several times that it's our electoral list with that name, and that there's a series of specificities that are reflected in that term, but I don't think we have time for that topic right now because we have such an important topic on the agenda. Due to the crisis in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a programme on 7 February 2001 and formed the Co-ordination Body for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. So it's known what the circumstances were at that time, from January 2000 to May 2001, I think all serious observers are still in a fresh memory. I absolutely don't see any reason why we are reopening this topic because of the lack of information of some MPs. The fact is that we also have the Co-ordination Body and the programme of that time, which bears the name of the Crisis Resolution Programme in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. As far as underdevelopment is concerned, I've given here comparative data with an average in the state, and that data from the Statistics Office, nothing else. I didn't say there were no other underdeveloped municipalities. I'm talking about Presevo, Bujanovac and Bear, because I probably have 97% of the votes in these three municipalities. I would always agree to speak on behalf of, what if not, certain people in both Bosilegrad and Commerce, if they ask me as a MP to present a problem, but I hope they have the opportunity to do so through other MPs. Presevo, Bujanovac and Bear only have one MP, and that's me, and if I don't talk about their problems, and most originally, who will? I don't see what that problem is about here. But the fact is, based on the latest official data from the Bureau of Statistics, the Presevo municipality is in the last place with, I repeat, corrected folk income per capita of 14.8% of the national average. (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. That's a fact. But that doesn't mean there isn't a number of other underdeveloped municipalities. That's why I finally said that it was necessary to bring additional instruments in this assembly and that the government had more concrete measures to reduce the gap between developed and undeveloped in order to ensure more dynamic development processes in these municipalities... (President: Four minutes. Please. )......................................................................................................... so they don't fall behind anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5652	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Ask for a word, he wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and he gets his word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5653	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I call for a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 218(1), which says: "The government reports to the National Assembly on its work, especially on policymaking, on enforcement of laws, other regulations and general acts, on the achievement of the development plan and the spatial plan and on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. "The Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Krkobibic, the older man, has just said that an increase in pensions to 70% of the average salary can be expected in 2010. I quote: "We are not going to tear down the country, we need to move that project for some time, possibly by the end of 2010. "I want to thank, on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia and on behalf of the 1,700,000 pensioners who expected this increase, for this quick response to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr Krkobabiæ and to say -- the pension increases will not be, perhaps in two years, under some new election campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5654	People's MP, there's no violation of Article 218, but there are injuries to the members of the Rules of Procedure that regulate the right to a word. Please do not abuse the Rules of Procedure and the good practice that we have established and the silent agreement in which the use of the Rules of Procedure is widely interpreted. The member you called for, which refers to the National Assembly's report on the work of the Government, is not injured or can be applied at this session. The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, followed by MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5655	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the proposal to amend and supplement the Budget Law or budget rebalancing is the product of our inefficient and expensive state. This rebalancing was not designed by the revenue side, but rather projected by the spending party, as we heard in the statement by the minister. She said the rebalancing is a compromise, but not a compromise in terms of meeting the broadest masses and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but a compromise between political parties that form the current ruling coalition and meeting their needs. We have heard various comments and explanations, even who are the creators of fiscal policy, how they are divided into neutral, moderate, extreme, etc., but all this does not seem enough for citizens to meet this budget, because this budget is totally wasteful and will not satisfy the purpose, except again, the groups of political parties that are in the ruling regime. The lack of this budget is that public spending is large, which has no national and state-owned strategy, which is small development funds, which has no means for developing small and medium-sized enterprises, which is a small agrarian budget, and it should be much larger, because we all know that without the development of economy and agriculture there is neither the development of society nor the budget. This deficit of 45,784,000, which was projected by this budget, is huge, given that additional funding is still needed on the basis of debt repayment, so that it totals 92,118,000,000, and will be provided from where but from privatisation incomes, credits, donations, financial assets of the budget; all this is unclear, i.e. the thing is known that we go into debt slavery to implement all these items in the budget. The only thing that can be praised is one small step - taking over employees from the Customs Administration who worked in institutions in Kosovo and Metohija; it is about 50 workers the state has taken over to hire them. However, I would like to ask another question, which is what is happening to the employees of Serbs working in Kosovo's police service for whom Serbia should take the obligation and make payments so that Serbs have protection and security in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. It is also strange that this budget rebalance does not provide for funds for the Community Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija. As you know, it was formed on Vidovdan in 2008 and all parliamentary parties participate in the assembly. As far as I know, the government has also recognised the assembly as a legal institution, but you think that Serbs in Kosovo, as so far, should be volunteers, to work free of charge to protect their country. I guess this is just one failure, which will make up for most likely amendments. What is the goal, I quote - the objective of economic and structural policy is to create conditions for high investment growth, which will allow exports to grow in the coming period, and thus reduce the external trade deficit and unemployment in Serbia. Here, I will list these items that are in section 15 - Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, which is 271,811.331 dinar for the Republic Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises, 3900.000 for the Credit Support Programme through the Development Fund, 200,000 for the loan of Lizing Machines and Equipment, 3,000,0000.000 for start-ap loans, 1,200,000 for export lending and 1,970,00.000 for the founding stake in this company "Fiat - Flag" that should bring progress, development. When we add all these figures together, it's about 10.5 billion or over the entire budget 1.51%), which is negligiblely few funds, given that it takes more resources to invest in development, to help develop small and medium-sized enterprises and even develop the economy, so that the state can be stronger and more free. On the other hand, the reasons for this budget are the increase in expenditure, above all for pensions. The MPs who came out here claim that this reason is just made up, that in fact this linear increase will not lead to an improvement, given the increasing prices that are escalating these days so that these funds that are meant for pensioners will melt. I would also like to point out that these subsidies in agriculture could have been higher and placed so that our agrarian could be stronger and our peasant could do better business, as well as this current budget reserve that is scheduled. You forgot, to remind you that local self-government has been formed in Kosovo and Metohija and that by today, although the elections were on 11 May 2008, no newly elected official has received personal income. So, the state called the elections, but she didn't want the current budget reserve to pay at least that minimum, which is the president of the municipality, the vice president of the municipality, the president of the assembly, the deputy president of the assembly and members of the municipal council, so that local self-government authorities can function normally. There are throw-offs on the other side, and these are the throw-offs of those who have a negligiblely small number of voters in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5656	The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and he has a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5657	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure because I don't think we've been getting an answer to any of the questions we've raised here for days. The questions are very serious. Last time in my discussion, I reiterated, several MPs discussed it, and we believe that until we can answer that, we cannot discuss the budget rebalance seriously or the budget for the following year, 2009. I repeat, we agreed in 2007 that the funds from the sale of large enterprises in 2008 were spent on Corridor 10, on water supplying Zrenjanin and Banat, on the dam of "Greekkovo" and on several significant projects in Serbia. Total assets from the sale of "Mobtel" at the height of 1. 600,000, 300,000 million out of the third operator, 3600,000 out of the sale of the Belgrade Stock Houses, totalling 2.260,00,000 euros, is intended to be spent this year on large capital investments by the Serbian state. The presidential campaign began at the end of last year, in January, the presidential election, the rally campaign, campaigns and the 11 May elections, and then, gentlemen from the European Serbia coalition, took over. To this day, no meter of highways have been made, and no notice has been received where the 2,260,000,000 funds are and what they were spent on when they were the conclusions of the government that worked on privatization of these three large systems. We think it's a huge asset and it's a very serious question. Were these funds spent in an election campaign that was too expensive? How much of these funds have been spilled in Vojvodina by Mr. Pitiæ? What have these funds been spent on? Give us a report on whether these funds have been spent on purpose. I am convinced that the Capital Fund in Vojvodina spent a large part of the funds unintendedly. That's for sure. Secondly, we need to be serious, and this parliament must very seriously decide on some of the topics that life means for Serbia. Therefore, one cannot go out in an election campaign and promise five billion euros to Serbian citizens through actions, thousands of euros per head, and withdraw the electoral body and win the elections. You can't go out and say-- pensions, increase 70% of the average salary, and now say-- well, we'll put it off for a few years, and we'll see these actions, they might never be, and maybe they'll be something, we'll see. These are two vice-presidents of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's irresponsible if two vice-presidents of the government come out and promise something, and now they say, "Puj dots don't work," we're moving in there, we're not going to tear down our government, of course, because we may never even get there, let alone come, but never mind, my God, you'll manage without our promises. If these promises are not fulfilled, we will launch activities for the impeachment of people who deceive Serbia, who have lined up five million Serbian citizens to stand in line day and night, to sign up for action and make a joke out of it, and now they say - the dots don't apply, there's nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5658	National MP, it remains unclear who you are asking for information from, whether from the present representative of the motionor or from a particular minister. I am obliged to inform you - if the information is requested by the Government, then as a MP, you should say whether it goes to the Secretary-General of the Government, the cabinet of the Prime Minister or the Vice President. If you want the topics you're talking about to be topics at the National Assembly session, then I refer you to Article 199. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly under which each parliamentary group has the right to refer a request to the President of the Assembly for a session at which the Government in general, the Prime Minister or individual ministers will answer parliamentary questions and the president is obliged to schedule such a session. If you've missed that information, it's usually a session where all members of the government are obliged to provide the information you're looking for. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and he gets his word on Article 100, stressing that he is talking about members 225 and 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5659	I would talk about Article 225(1) because MPs must be informed of all relevant information relevant to their work, and the problem arises when MPs and the public are misinformed by the Government or their representatives about what is happening and what is the current situation. Today, the budget rebalance is on the agenda and given what information is going around, I am obliged to draw attention to the following. As the DSS parliamentary group 15 days ago, we submitted a bill amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, which was proposed to increase the guaranteed amount of deposits from three thousand euros to 20,000 euros. When we proposed this, we had in mind the circumstance that there is a particular problem called the global financial crisis, that there is a wave that can slap our country and can be very negatively reflected in what is called the savings ratio to their own roles and the business banks in which they deposited their savings. For the sake of that defence or protection, we said then, as well as a good part of the opposition, that a series of measures should be taken without the government doing so. Then we are accused, that is the point of my story, to propose a law that has populist and demagogue dimensions, which must have certain coverage of what we propose, when it comes to covering a deposit of 20,000 euros. At that time, we are accused of serving the propaganda that should scare the citizens of Serbia when it comes to the security of their savings roles, so there was a meeting with the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and other officials in this regard, that 15 days later, a law proposed by the Government of Serbia on the increase of the amount secured to 50,000 euros would appear. The difference between these two proposals is huge. In the first case, the proposal was based and based on full coverage when it comes to what is called the Deposit Insurance Fund or what is called deposited funds up to 40% of the total amount of deposited funds that is about six billion at the moment. At this point, the proposal submitted covers up to 2.5 billion of the three billion that are needed. There are 500 million deficits that, in the event of an emergency, would have to be compensated within 90 days, because it is the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia and that is what should give citizens confidence in their savings. If that's what it is, ladies and gentlemen, what you're doing, you're doing very wrong because then the fate of these deposits will be the same as the fate of free actions of public enterprises. Nothing but a bunch of lies. You must put your trust in the citizens of Serbia, if you are responsible for power, rather than bring unrest or suspicion. Our proposal was qualitatively opposite of this. He was completely different. Is it possible and will you do it at least in the budget you're forecasting for next year, that you'll cover that imbalance, that you'll cover that deficit that's obvious here, because there's not a word about it in the budget's rebalance? How do you think you're taking this country seriously? How do you think you can seriously do what it takes for the citizens of this country to trust the institutions of the system? I wonder, but I don't think I'll get a rational answer from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5660	People's MP, are you asking for information from the competent authorities and organizations or not? If you're looking, then I guess it's directed to the government's representatives. Minister Diana Dragutinovic will give you the necessary information during the session that you, under Article 225, need for further work. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5661	Mrs. Comic, to make no mistake, it is a member of our 27th Rules of Procedure. I think that you are systematically making it impossible for us to have a completely normal debate, in which we should challenge these government people to tell the information to the public so that the public can concentrate in space, to see which minister cheated on her, which minister lied, which minister was saying something, which the minister in a corrupt way came to votes and his strategic positions related to being in this government. You're making it impossible. I will, for the sake of my coalition partners, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, just to remind them of what these government officials wrote in this paper. I return to the beginning, if they were here, they would be on the indictee's bench, and Djelic, and Dinkic and Cvetkovic, if I didn't order from "a" to "sh". Please, is it known to Serbian citizens that during 2008, the Republic of Serbia will issue guarantees to foreign governments - the government of Spain, Germany, Austria, and then Eurofim, I will not be able to order all these banks. That's the first thing. It's a big deal. Of course, as soon as Serbia provides guarantees for these amounts, those abroad are creating a policy. The 6.5 billion hasn't come since 2000, you know. It's still at the border. It's counting. And the Cyprus thing, it's gone nowhere, and these five million people waiting, what they were waiting for, go to Dinkic. Let's move on. Does anyone know why the government is taking a loan from the Commercial Bank of 12.5m euros to buy what? Buildings in Brussels. Why do you need a building in Brussels? Well, the European Union is two more years and it won't exist anymore. I've been telling you since the beginning, for 15 years, Serbia will never be a member of the European Union. You didn't believe me. A few months ago, I told you this was going to happen. I came back from The Hague and I told you from this pay phone what was going to happen. Why? First, a bank in the Netherlands was killed two years ago, and that breakdown has to go on, it can't be stopped. Please, these Eurofanatics are still talking. On the defendant's bench, all those who made us do everything the EU wants. So, guys, are you guys normal?- I'm sorry. Solana has signed that our children are being killed! He's a folk hero to you. For me, he's not a folk hero. Please, please, all members of the government here, and one by one on the defendant's bench, not to hide in the Sava centers, some economic institutes, and make fun of us from the television. No, and make sure they make the bills here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5662	People's MP, no harm done to article 27. The session has been convened and runs in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Your perfectly reasonable intention and suggestion to explain that it is necessary for the representatives of the Government to be in the Assembly to answer questions that interest MPs is subject to Article 199. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Each parliamentary group has the right to request a session to be attended by the entire government, the Prime Minister and to answer parliamentary questions. All it takes is for any member of parliament to refer such a request to the president of the National Assembly. All parliamentary groups in this business law are fully equal. The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush. He wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and he gets his word on article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Boris Tadic, the Serbian government has completely deceived the entire public in the state of Serbia and daily shows what the tyranny of a democratic type looks like. I've come forward on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. The previous ten working days in the National Assembly of the SRS parliamentary group were life problems and raised concrete questions in the government of Boris Tadic. We haven't received any answers to a specific question, and it's been eight days. Serbia's streets are full of strikers, trying to draw attention to their terrible position and to vote the right, even if it is the right to be heard. The streets of Belgrade cannot pass because they are run by rivers of people who are victims of transition and dictatorship, in particular Boris Tadic, and I will explain why. What we're trying to do here in this prestigious home is actually making it impossible for us every day. Those life- and strategically important discussions are being moved from the assembly hall and moved to a media area that is directly governed by Boris Tadic. We have not received any answers to life's questions and this is what democracy looks like in Serbia. A particular question and what we've been trying to challenge here for days... I sincerely express my astonishment over the ruling coalition, especially with regard to the Democratic Party of which I expected a little more democratic and political tolerance, which is precisely not you who initiated the government to come, the next example of all Western European democracies, and trying together with the opposition to find a concrete solution to the terrible situation, economic and social, which has entered a large door into Serbia. We listen and inform ourselves from the media, and this is a devastating fact, that in 2009, and the public needs to know, it will be disastrous for Serbia, that pensions will not be able to increase -- and that is one false promise, we find out now, and we know what the 2009 recession means and what it will look like in 2010. This means: no production, no pay cuts, no income cuts, no pension cuts, less labour, less jobs. That waits for Serbia in 2009 and 2010. And then, we have Olympic vicious circles and a terrible situation. None of us here will be able to get out of this room and look at those people on the edge of the beggar stick. This is a specific question, I'm really sorry, thank you for your tolerance, you realize this is an important life issue. A concrete question for the Prime Minister is, and I would like to personally refer him to Boris Tadic but I do not have the authority to do so – when will the entire Serbian government appear here to discuss the growing economic situation and the problem of the upcoming recession? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5664	People's MPs, about when the Government of the Republic of Serbia will have to come to the Assembly for a session, decided by MPs rather than by the government. It is therefore necessary that any of the ten parliamentary groups submit a request for a session to be held by the Prime Minister, all ministers, which is scheduled as a special session with parliamentary issues. At the request of any parliamentary group, on the basis of Article 199, the speaker of the assembly convenes a session where all MPs ask questions to the Prime Minister and Ministers, members of the government. I fully understand that it is possible for it to pass in the reading of the Rules of Procedure and it is my duty to invite all the presidents of the parliamentary groups to make any of them, or all of them together, to apply for a formal nature so that the session may be convened. As far as the deadline is concerned, since we are calling for members of 225 and 226 from the area of the rights and duties of the Members of Parliament, by carefully reading both members, you will see that there is no time limit in which the requested information is to be delivered to you or in which you should be referred to where to find the information. The deadline you mention refers to members who regulate a session at which MPs ask parliamentary questions. The word has the People's MP Đuro Peric. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5665	I would like to say this: a large number of MPs, which is quite normal and natural, in his discussions he referred to pensions and pension promises. It's normal and I'm glad people started to turn to that problem. The accident is that there are many wrong interpretations and inaccuracies in various discussions, and it is now nuanced in various ways. I would like to say this: all that is proposed now is proposed to all of you, all the MP groups, two years ago, with all these elements. Most of your MP groups, when these elections were the same things, suggested that they would do it one way or another, which is true, I can illustrate to you where, who, when he said it. But I want to say another thing, it's not just promises, we've been fighting for years for a better pensioner position. It wasn't promises, it was brakes everywhere to discuss it. I want to move on to concrete things about budget rebalances. First, debts to the PIO Fund for these contributions amounted to 128 billion dinars. This has been reduced due to certain situations, and now that debt, as the Fund's financial director has informed me, is about 85 billion, which needs to be provided, so you see what these relations are in the funds and for this rebalance, and for the next thing I'm going to say. Who's to blame? It's all the former governments' fault, and if this one doesn't do it now, it's her fault too, there's no discussion there. That's where we know what it is. The next thing, the PIO Fund found, to the last dinar, where the funds were invested, the one they say -- the eaten funds, etc. Until the last dinar, it was determined where the funds were given and invested from those contributions that were then pensions. The Fund's property law was made. We ask that all of this be returned to the Fund and that the Fund builds an enterprise or an organisation that will capitalize all of it, there is that in nature, actions etc. It seems funny to many, however, that these are huge resources that can help with all of this. I'm not going to get into any of the other problems you've been putting out, what's going on in privatisation, etc. All of this was created by this generation that has lived and worked so far, so it's time for it to return to it in a certain way. If there was a certain redistribution in all of this... (President: three minutes 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... we could come up with normal pensions relations, not create a situation that, minors, pensioners and these demands are a disaster, it will ruin Serbia, it will ruin the Serbian economy, etc. There are much bigger and more important problems that can lead to this. The second thing is whether we're going to have a general crisis that's ruling the world, so then we're all going to get out of that crisis... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... to the proper relationships, which will have both employees and everyone else. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5666	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5667	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I thought I would report in accordance with Article 27, regarding Article 218, but you gave me the opportunity to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104 - violation of the Parliament's dignity. Madam Chairman, you have deceived the National Assembly, MPs, citizens. We have an article 218, that's part 6 that talks about the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government, where it stands, attitude 1: "The government reports to the National Assembly about its work, and especially about political conduct" etc. Item 2: "The government reports to the National Assembly when requested by the National Assembly or by its own initiative and at least once a year. "We don't expect the government to report to us, but we live in a country in a difficult situation; we expect government representatives here, there are so many topics we need to get answers on. Unfortunately, Mrs Dragutinovic, the finance minister cannot answer all questions. I believe all citizens want to hear the answers to certain questions. Use your option from Article 27, call the prime minister and some other ministers, we need to get answers to the burning questions. Is the media supposed to find out that Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Krkobic said - well, 2010 will be an increase? Reading your report, Mrs Dragutinovic, a presentation on the government's website, I see that in the conclusions you have put on the government's teamwork, means that ministers can't behave as if it were their feud, that they are responsible for both the good and the bad of all government work, etc., but how can you allow once the Deputy Prime Minister, at the same time the Minister of Economic Development, to act as if it were his budget? Look at the increase and the freedom that this minister and the ministers from his party have in this government. That's disastrous. When the amendments come, we'll talk about it and show it. It's a man who has 11 assistants and six state secretaries, so now another cabinet of vice presidents is being introduced, where who knows how many people they hire? We've got a situation where the dinar's getting weak. What did the governor say? It won't go past 9:00. Two nights before that, the prime minister goes on TV and talks like this -- save, save, save in banks. Mr. Peric, who emptied the pension fund when it happened? In the 1990s. Who worked there? Deputy Prime Minister Krkobic. One more thing to tell you, in the 1990s a practice has been introduced, which the Minister knows and will confirm, that taxes and contributions are not paid. Under the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration did not pay taxes and contributions to its employees during the 1990s. Who led this country then? Don't talk - the previous governments. In the 1990s, pension funds were emptied. You can tell that to kids of ten, they don't remember that. Pensioners in this country have good memories... (President: Three minutes and 30 seconds. My predecessor spoke for four minutes. Pensioners in this country remember well who emptied the pension funds. I suppose it was then your party friend, Mr Bozovic and your Mr Krkobabiæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5668	People's MP, no harm done to article 27. Article 218, which you have called upon, states the following in its five views, and this is Chapter 6 - Report of the National Assembly on the work of the Government: "The government reports to the National Assembly on its work, and in particular on policy-making, enforcement of laws, other regulations and general acts, on the achievement of the development plan and the spatial plan and on the implementation of the budget of the Republic". The second attitude you quoted: "The government reports to the National Assembly when requested by the National Assembly or by its own initiative and at least once a year." The third position: "The National Assembly may, on a proposal from the individual committee, conclude without a search, that it requests a report from the Government on the work of the Government, or a report that the Government will inform the National Assembly of policy-making issues, law enforcement, other regulations and general acts in a particular area." Fourth position: "The government's report to the president of the National Assembly, immediately upon reception, delivers to the MPs, for the purpose of meeting." The final position: "The National Assembly may decide, on a proposal from the Committee that discussed the government's report, that the review of the report should also be carried out at the National Assembly's session." So, MP, there is no deception or violation of the Rules of Procedure by the Chairman. It's two different sessions. The session I remind myself of is about the possibility that any of the ten parliamentary groups, as many as there are in the National Assembly, will request a session to be attended by the Prime Minister, the entire government, and all MPs to ask parliamentary questions. The session you are talking about is a session that may be scheduled at the request of one of the committees, and not necessarily, and represents the possibility that the Government should submit a written report on its own or deliver a written report at the request of the Assembly. I ask that we read more carefully all the provisions and all the members who regulate that the course of the session we are at right now, as well as the attitude towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other institutions, so that there is no excessive abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I was warned by MP Slobodan Maraš that MP Djuro Peric spoke for four minutes. I find that warning correct, and from now on, every MP will speak exclusively for three minutes. Thank you. The word is by MP Milan Dimitrijevic, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. After him, MP Momir Markovic, then MP Marina Ragus, continued to write down the names of MPs who wanted to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5669	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I assume the Minister has a proposal for budget rebalancing. I'd ask her to turn page 197. I'll explain what's going on. It's about the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic Health Insurance Institute. Here we have two points. So, medications and medical medicines in health institutions, which together is 27,464,274,000 and medicines issued on prescription - 20,590,000,000. See how large these amounts are and how many digits there are. I'll tell you one piece of information: Hemofarm drug factory sells drugs to the Republic Health Insurance Office of Serbia at a price that is up to seven times the price of the same medicines sold in Montenegro. The illustration works, the amoxicillin capsules cost us 99.30 dinars, and in Montenegro 38.40. That's 2.58 times more expensive. It costs 418.10 dinars in Famotidine, and 60,00 dinars in Montenegro, 6.96 times more expensive. When we have such a situation in the Republic Institute as it is, and we discussed it on the board, we come to this - that someone rich in the expense of the insurance company of the Republic Health Insurance Office. What's this about? According to the Director of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, medicines are obtained without a tender because the Republic Public Procurement Authority said it is not obliged to call a tender and in Montenegro it is. That's why the cure is cheaper in Montenegro. Here's the space where billions of insurance go. Here's the space and here's the... (President: three minutes. Finish it, People's Messenger. Please, for the intervention of other Members of the People, let us strictly respect the time given by the Rules of Procedure for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Madam Vice President, I think it's a very important issue. I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5670	National MP, the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not know important, less important and irrelevant topics. The same procedure applies to all topics. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5671	Madam Chairman, members of 225 and 226. I remind you of one of my discussions from this pay phone about a month and a half ago when I listed all Mr. Krkobiæ's promises. He promised that pensions would be 70% of the salary, so he promised after that -- not now, but now 15%, or 20%, 17%, 15%, 12%. As much as he'll promise now, before payment, we'll hardly know. Of course, there's nothing you can do about it. Right on the wave of those promises the PUPS rode. I am sorry that Mr. Peric comes out here and suffers the fire of the MPs because of his boss's promise, but if he has received his homework, let him continue. Mr. Krkobibic's latest statement: the payment of pensions of 70% of salary will be due to the global financial crisis by the end of 2010. Come on, please. Because of the tsunami in Polynesia, because of the moon's menu, because of the tide and the tide in Australia. Gentlemen, you promised and that's exactly why you're sitting where you are. A layer of the population in Serbia with the lowest incomes, a layer of barely surviving population, is exactly that layer of pensioners. They gave you votes. You lied to them. Come out and say it - people, we've deceived you, don't believe in Santa anymore. It's the Serbian government's fault. Mr. Krkobic is Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Krkobic must keep what he has promised. I have two pensioners in my family and I know how they live. He says we should get the pension fund back in the '90s, as Mr. Maras said. Yes, and the "Sava Center" was built at that time and many other buildings, but we still come, however you turn, to Krkobic. Well, he was the Director of the Pension Fund back then. It won't be that. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking Mr. Krkobic to say when he'll keep his promise and raise his pension to 70% of the salary value, because it was 70, so it was up to 70, and 48, as far as it is now, up to 70. If he can't do it, let him resign with honor and honesty, and he and the entire Krkobibic dynasty... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... How many are there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5672	The word has a folk emissary Marina Ragush. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on Articles 225 and 226. Let's just say that in the last ten days, I've been the most agile in asking parliamentary questions because my day-to-day function as a MP has been disabled, because of course I haven't received any answers...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5674	National MPs, you have not asked any parliamentary questions, since there has been no session at which it could be possible to ask parliamentary questions. If you have put them in writing, they cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, they may only be the subject of informing the President of the National Assembly or of your parliamentary group on the need to schedule a session of the National Assembly where parliamentary questions will be asked and you will receive answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5675	Thank you. So I haven't received any notices and explanations based on Article 226 of the competent ministers and other institutions in the last ten days; you are, in part, a witness to that, the largest number of notifications and explanations I have asked for. I hope I've been more specific now. The public in Serbia should know that the ruling majority, in the overall economic and social crisis, with such interpretations, is making a mockery, very likely, of all opposition MPs who make oral demands regarding the government's presence and the start of a session where all government members will respond to everyday life issues, especially if we have in mind part of Prime Minister Cvetkovic's exposé where he says, in economic terms, he will fight to boost the economy, with increased employment and significant growth of investments, including investment in infrastructure, while maintaining macroeconomic stability. So that is its core of the government's economic programme, which will say, a steady growth in economic activity, employment growth, an increase in Serbia's citizens' standards, a more balanced regional development. If I were drawn to dramaturgy, I'd probably throw this on the floor right now and tell the public of Serbia -- there's nothing out of this. The recession takes place in 2009, and there is no will for the government's representatives to come here in greater numbers and try together to find a solution to this crisis, not serving procedures and thus avoiding qualified answers to questions that MPs ask daily. Finally, let me tell you why I'm out now: it's about the Eulex mission. It is also one of the issues that is being removed from the Serbian Parliament and is mainly being led behind closed doors, without consent, without talk, without platform. About 80 Americans will participate in the Eulex mission, which will be operationally stable in December, but none of the Americans, and that public in Serbia should know, will not be responsible for any violations committed in Serbia's territory. Which means he can crush, kill and kill, he won't answer for it. The example I'm going to talk about, just to honor the three minutes I have in my office, is a famous scandal in Iraq caused by a security agency called the Pretoria, George W. Bush, called Blackwater. The Blackwater will soon reach the territory of the southern Serbian province. About that in the next report, and thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5676	The Members of Parliament, Members of 225 and 226 of the Rules of Procedure and the responsibilities of the Members of Parliament shall be such that there is no time limit for the delivery of the notice, since it shall be understood that the MP of the notice required for work shall request, by the course of the session of the National Assembly in his daily work, whether the session is held in regular and extraordinary sittings or not. Since we have a silent agreement that these members are used to communicate with MPs and citizens and with all other MPs, and with the government, then it is necessary to see that there is no, unfortunately, time obligation. Every reasonable government, every reasonable organ will give as soon as possible the notice you seek. Formally, there's no deadline. As for the oral request for the government's arrival, the business obligation is respected by the presence of Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic. Once again, I refer you to Article 199. Each parliamentary group, each of the ten parliamentary groups, has the right to submit a proposal, a request... National MPs Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic win -- not ten, but nine. I refer them to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia website where all the groups are listed and you can see that there are ten. The word is from MP Djuro Peric, who wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, and then Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5677	First, let me say next. I'm talking because I'm called, by Article 104. It is not a replica, but I must say: Jovan Krkobbic was never the director of this fund, but he was the director of the Fund of Independent Activities, who worked with large surpluses; even now that the funds were merged on January 1st, two pensions were in reserve and included in these funds, so it also affects the reduction of all of this. He has been chairman of the Management Board since 1994. It is said that these funds were then fragmented, in the 1990s – no, they were given to these Republic centers, for health institutions, for infrastructure in the 1970s, when they were SIZs. I have to tell you, it's a good thing that was done then, for the following reasons: then, by law, all the funds had to go back to the budget and then they were dividing from that budget, like, to return to the economy. Only Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina had surpluses; this went partly to Slovenia, Croatia and elsewhere. We were the only ones with extras, so when we came to our senses, then we started investing in these facilities that way. But those funds are all registered and that's exactly what we know and we're gonna fight to get it back because it's from pensions, it's not from other things. CK is another thing. Secondly, he did not promise Krkobic that it would be in 2010, he said that in 2009 it would go through one sliding system and up to 70% by the end of that year. That's what he was saying, until 2010, not in 2010. So, what we promised would come here before you to plead whether it was for the increase, that pension. Because it's hypocritical to say -- we are about to increase pensions, but, like, in some magical way it will increase. It cannot be increased unless the law is passed and the way it will be done is determined. Therefore, you will have the opportunity to plead. The campaign is a campaign, the campaign was given what was already launched, and you got it earlier, two years ago you got, your parliamentary group. Each of you, individually and as a group, can start the law, propose to bring it, if you want to help the pensioners, but I now say to you that only our PUPS, to which you are now all concerned, is in favour of solving this pensioner problem, the only one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5678	National MP Vladan Batic, then Ms. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5679	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising first of all a violation of the provisions of Article 106. Please, Madam President, give notice to the MP and Vice-President of the Assembly to Mrs Gordani Komic, for the simple reason she keeps talking before she asks and gets the word and interrupts the speakers in the presentation, or throws it away. There is no authority in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I measured the time, half the time spent by all the MPs spent by Mrs Gordana Komic. So it most obstructs the work of the National Assembly. Now I ask you to give me time again, because I have quoted the Rules of Procedure. Articles 225 and 226. Mrs Dragutinovic, I asked you a question about how much pensions will really increase in Serbia, is that a promise that has already been made? Madam President, please remind Mrs Gordana Komic not to disrupt the work of the National Assembly and not to cause chaos in the National Assembly Hall, to respect order, so that I may speak. So how much did pensions really increase, given that the dinar was devalued by over 10% and whether pensions would at all be increased or it's a colorful lie, so that these members of the Eighth Congress and earlier congresses wouldn't get needlessly political points? Secondly, Mrs Dragutinovic, in the draft budget rebalance, you have items relating to the administrative court, the Court of Appeal, for an appeal court of over 10m euros; and also, state-level senior prosecutors. Do you know that Serbia still has neither the administrative court nor the appeal court nor the state's major prosecutors? So what do these items mean in the budget? So there's no court of appeals, there's no court of appeals. It's not the current minister's fault, it's been designed, but it doesn't exist. What does this mean, the planned allocation of large funds to work, say, the appeals court, most of all, and then the administrative court and the state council of prosecutors? I also ask you to answer the question, although it has nothing to do with you directly, but it has to do with spending money – how it works and what South Bank AD serves in Kosovo Mitrovica, is it actually designed for money laundering, for smuggling and trade in oil derivatives or something else? Since I'm out of time, I'm going to be looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5680	According to the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Milica Vojic-Markovic, please. Milos Aligrudic, Paja Momcilov, Momir Markovic, Mr. Maras, Pejcic Aleksandar, Marina Ragus and Mr. Jojic also reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5681	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm advertising Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, and I'll explain why I'm advertising it. The MP for the SPS-PUPS coalition - Unique Serbia, Mr Peric, has repeatedly explained to us that pension funds in the past have disappeared, although he himself said that since 2000, this has been partially compensated, in a large amount; approximately two-thirds of this eaten pension fund has been compensated in the period from 2005 to 2008. He accused all past governments of being guilty of discharge of pension funds. Well, it won't be like that. They're still in our memory of the 1990s, and it seems to me like we're remembering them well and we're afraid of the situation that was then, that looks like this today. We can't possibly forget the role of the SPS in these past times, in which funds have been emptied. I must say that Mr. Peric has particularly offended himself and accused the opposition's MPs that it is those who falsely care about pensioners and that only PUPS has a sincere desire to help pensioners. I'll quote a few statements from his leader, and we'll discuss it together. One of them is, "If the price of entering the European Union is to bring a million pensioners to the edge of a beggar stick, then we don't need the European Union." That's one of his statements. Next: "I guarantee you with this gray hair and bald head that the first law in Serbia will be an increase in pensions by 50%," said Krkobic, who ended his speech with the words "if not in victory, he will die". Imagine how touching. Next, today: Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Jovan Krkobibic announced today that his cabinet is preparing a new law on pension and disability insurance, which should increase the amount of pension to 70% of the average salary in Serbia, and will be declared by the government in ten days. When we look at this date here, I see that the government is likely to declare itself on this law at the first session on Thursday. I don't think that's the way it's gonna be. That's why what Mr. Peric told us is very offensive to all of us. He accused opposition party MPs, the Democratic Party of Serbia, that they are in fact one million and six hundred thousand pensioners, in a way, failing to support and put them into office as their election campaign. Well, it doesn't seem to me that they were the subject of the Democratic Party of Serbia's election campaign, but they were the exclusive subject of the PUPS campaign and of Mr Krkobibic, who has been professionally involved in the social service for many years, and also today is dealing with the social system. I want to say one more fact. Of these 1,600,000 pensioners, 14% of them have a pension of 9,715 and the poverty line is 8,800. What I'm saying is that they're all here on the poverty line and that no one in this country would play normal with the pensioner's category in this way as Mr. Peric respected us. Neither this is the Socially Responsible Government nor Mr. Krkobibic is the patron of the pensioners. We saw it this time after his statement today on B92. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5682	The word is Mr Milos Radulovic, then Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5683	Article 226, questions for the Prime Minister. Just 15 days ago, the president evaluated the government's work with a clean five at a 100-day conference. It is now a week of savings; banks offer interest to citizens on the savings stakes on foreign exchanges, on the euro of 9%, with a minimum reserve of 40%. To make it clear, this means that if a citizen invests 1,000 euros, the National Bank takes as a 400-euro reserve and thus we come to see that the cost of the savings for the bank is 15.67%. However, the bank offers the money to economic operators at a minimum interest of 18% for savings deposits, or for the euro. The only question is what kind of economic operator can handle that interest. The result is that we currently have one state of recession in the sense that economic operators are unable to function normally for the simple reason that they are expensive crafts, which makes business difficult for them. At this point, there's a small number of those who are willing to take that cost and do normal business. I insist that the Prime Minister answer this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5684	The word is Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5685	I'm reporting to intervene under Article 27. Rules of Procedure. This time it does not apply to you, Madam President, but to the Vice-President of the National Assembly Gordana Komic, who simply cannot resist without challenging the MPs with his inappropriate comments and the way he leads the National Assembly, which certainly does not contribute to the reputation of this home, and at least to the place where you are sitting. She probably feels that sitting there alone has some intellectual abilities or some supernatural powers that no other MP can have. For example, in the case of Mrs. Marine Ragush, she knew at half her sentence at the beginning that this sentence would end and in which direction her exposure was going, and then she chose to interrupt and hold a short vial of 60 seconds. When it all comes together, all of its exhibitions from when it began to preside until the moment you replaced it, as Vladan Batic said, it amounts to at least 50% of the total time spent here. It probably suits you as a ruling coalition, I don't know what it is; if I were in power, it wouldn't suit me. You do it, you have a purpose, I suppose. All right, you do whatever you want, but you certainly can't do it in such a way as to insult the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, to insult the MPs. One, first, you, not you, but the one who chaired, hurt me, because I really, with great interest, whether I'm in the O.R. or I'm monitoring it through the monitor, I'm following what the MPs are saying, and in that particular case, I wanted to hear what the MP was saying. I was distracted. Fortunately, the MP who was behind the pay phone concentrated very quickly, went over that one-minute raid and continued his exposure. In particular, Article 106 makes it very clear that a speaker cannot be interrupted, or thrown, or disturbed by a speaker, or otherwise endangering freedom of speech. Ladies and gentlemen, this applies not only to those of us sitting on this side, but also to those sitting in the chair. Mrs Gordana Comić has all these days an amazing habit of leading the controversy with the MPs sitting in the hall. In this way, those who watch television can only hear her words, and none of the words of the MPs with whom she leads an open controversy can be heard. Then why doesn't she give these MPs a word to make them stand up nicely for the pay phone and then open one dialogue in front of all of us? I mean, it's really not the right way to run a session. If you have, at least in this part, even if what was none of your business, which I answered for the word, and it will be what you're going to do, you're probably not immune to it either... At least try to influence your associate that if she wants to delay time, if she wants to obstruct the National Assembly and speak indefinitely for a long time, let her do so, but find some decent form that would at least not offend the interests of the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5686	The word is Mr. Pai Momchilov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5687	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I also advertise Article 104. This debate on the most important law and legislative proposal, so at least it should be in every normal country and in every normal parliament, is constantly being thrown into something that offends the dignity of our MPs, and to God, I think, our citizens too. You in position have denied us a double speech time. At DOS time, the restrictions on the right of speech began. You remember previous times, Milosevic's time, there were no restrictions in the discussion. What's going on now? We now have Mrs. Comic explaining that it is quite enough here that we have a government representative in the image of the current minister. We do not doubt the Minister's abilities, but the budget is a comprehensive matter that includes the work of many ministries. Here, I specifically asked how is there such a discrepancy in the resources of the Ministry of Health? The current budget for this year envisioned 10,99,000,000, and is now 12,000,000,000. No one's answering me, and now you're saying we're having a serious conversation. This is below all levels. It's not the minister's fault. She was planted with this, she's a victim. When it takes some joy, then comes the one who encourages us, cheerfully, and jumps here, and now when a hot stone is to be carried, to answer the MPs to specific questions, to shorten the debate and to send a minister who is unable to provide us with answers. I asked for a concrete answer; it's a 20% raise in costs, so we understand each other. I still think the funds invested in health aren't enough. That's where we can get along. Thank God, the masks are finally going down. What Mr. Peric wants to tell us by force here and to convince us, you don't have to do. The citizens know well what is said and what is promised. What Mr Dinkic promised was the same colourful lie, farce. He knows well and Mrs. Minister and knows this unprincipled coalition that Mr. Manter, the tycoons of Serbia are already preparing a new government and new elections. This is going to end very infamously. It's impossible, don't convince us at all, please, that it's possible to get around the crisis. What did you do with Metals Bank? The European Union has said, there is no crisis, not to spread panic. "Metals Bank" doesn't do the transaction. She's not the only one. There's two of your men sitting in the People's Bank, acting like a bank. You'll put them all out, and there'll be a couple of banks from abroad, that's your plan. Madam Chairman, you're preventing us... I'm done. I'm a little out of time. I just have one more suggestion: don't put Mrs. Comic on any more, you have the vice president here, you have the vice president here, you have the people who are tolerated. You're deliberately making a circus out of this country. This is starting to look like a movie called "Fly Over the Coward's Nest," the doctor's not here, the head nurse's here. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5688	Mr. Momchilov, as for the time to discuss this agenda point, the heads of the parliamentary groups and I had an agreement to be double-time, however, your parliamentary group and you did not vote for the proposal, so it was not voted. The word is Mr. Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5689	Madam Chairman, when was the opposition obliged to give a quorum to the ruling coalition on any matter? It's a principled question. Gather 126, set the agenda, do whatever you want, but basic mathematics is 126 MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in all the traffic created in the state of Serbia, in all the fears that arise in the state of Serbia, one question, although very important and very painful for Serbia, except in the means of public information, among politicians, among the ruling furniture, in the ministries, remains undetected in the Serbian government. Why isn't the government responding? That's a question for the Prime Minister. I've come to the members of 225 and 226, and I want you to let me know. Why isn't the government responding to Helen Rant's statement about the duck? You remember, gentlemen of the People's Parliament - a crime in Račka, capital letters in the papers, civilians killed. As a result, Serbia's bombing began and lasted 78 days. From 30 billion to 100 billion is the damage done to Serbia, not to talk about other damages, only material damage. You remember that William Walker used to bring TV teams into that ditch to see the poor civilians being shot, and now it turns out they're terrorists in the Račka mosque dressed up in civilian suits, so his wounds are here, and there's no holes in his jacket. That wasn't enough either. Changed his jacket, changed him, because that SMB didn't suit him, someone might have thought he was a terrorist by accident. Why aren't the paraffin gloves off those people removed? It would've been determined if they'd fired, the gunpowder would've been found on their hands. Now, after all these years, after nine years, Helen Ranta's dead cold release book -- you know, they were terrorists who were killed in action and then changed them, and William Walker threatened them. And this country nothing. How many such deceptions have been done since the 1990s in the entire territory of the former Yugoslavia? How capable are we to behave so masochistically? Why isn't the Serbian government responding? Look, The Hague tribunal's chief prosecutor publishes a book, said Zoran Djindjic - take Seselj to The Hague and don't return it to us. Nothing to anyone again, this country is not responding at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5690	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5691	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, reporting in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Peric, I believe no one in this room is against pensioners living better in this country. I'll tell you why. You, my parents, the parents of these people, they all built this country. We really want to spend their retirement days in peace, without worry and with dignity. We also want the pensions to be 70%, no problem at all, if that's possible. You've been building a campaign, I don't blame you at all, on that story. You honestly want it, we believe it. What's the problem? I would've believed a lot more in that story if you'd said-- we want an increase of 70%, but not linearly. Let's help those who have 8,000 pensions, let's raise them 200 percent, and raise those who have 100,000 10%, 20%. Then I'd believe in sincere intent to help hundreds of thousands of pensioners or tens of thousands of pensioners. I have to ask you, you have the Deputy Prime Minister, so couldn't he say, hey, why double cabinets, we have budget rebalances, why double cabinets, why let Mladjan Dinkic have two cabinets and the same thing? What you agree, come here and say, so don't vote for budget rebalance until it changes. That's the point. Why allow the young man two cabinets? Why allow Hansel Dacic two cabinets, he has five functions, but why two cabinets? That's how you save money. You know how to save money? It is not said that public spending cuts will be taken into account, while at the same time raising the price of gas 60%, the price of impulses, the subscription. Had it not been for the people here in the assembly, the MPs, who, along with the public, raised their temperature on these issues, would have passed. It's not a socially responsible government. I'm telling you, the pension increase this year is 150m euros. Four-and-a-half years, or four years, as much as the middleman in Jugorosgas is paid for gas imports, that's the figure. So nothing's up. We had a dinar jump. Everything is unscathed. We all really want it to be better not just for the pensioners, for all the citizens; of course, for those who built this country. But then you can't have double standards, then you have to say as you just said here with your finger -- we don't want to vote for budget rebalance, we don't need two cabinets, let's save, let's not hire so many people. I think that's correct. At the end of the line, stand behind it, don't raise pensions linearly, we have the most endangered pensioners. Then I would really support anything you say. Like this, it looks more like a defense of what you promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5692	The word is "Paiche Alexander."
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5693	I'm advertising members 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. The respected chairman, ladies and gentlemen, all these days the DSS MPs are asking the question, as well as five million Serbian citizens, when will they get their 1,000 promised euros from Mladjan Dinkic? Yesterday, we received a shura statement from Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, who said that Serbian citizens would be able to count on their 1,000 euros only after the end of the global financial crisis. I remind you that in the last century, the first global financial crisis began in 1929 and ended after 12 years. According to the analogy, Serbian citizens should receive their 1,000 euros only in 2020. If it's from Mladjan Dinkic, it's a lot. The other thing I wanted to talk about was the signing of the DS and SPS declaration, when Mr. President Boris Tadic said a magic word. He said -- after signing this declaration, the dinar will strengthen. The dinar did strengthen, but not our national currency, but the Kuwaiti dinar. He has been strengthened. A question for Mr Boris Tadic, for his cabinet -- when will the Serbian national currency strengthen, or was it just a pre-election lie? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5694	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5695	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Articles 225 and 226. I am not giving up the establishment of the Eulex mission in Kosovo that is completely illegal and continues to mean the recognition of Ahtisaari's plan and recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence by Serbia. This is what Boris Tadic is trying to remove from parliament and implement in the work of the southern Serbian province by lobbying international competent institutions. On September 16th last year, a massacre took place in Iraq's territory in the most brutal way possible. Members of the Pretorian guard George Bush, known as the Blackwaters, private mercenaries' army, flew out of a moving vehicle and started shooting at innocent civilians in Iraq at random. Then 11 Iraqis were killed, 20 were seriously injured. What happened in return? They've been withdrawn to U.S. territory, because, for God's sake, an agreement has been signed all over the world that American mercenaries are not responding and are not subject to criminal responsibility, no matter what they do on any part of this country's territory, because the world is under American occupation. On U.S. territory, they were eventually given public notice and returned to Iraq to continue their trade in arms, intoxication and further savagery. That this fear of ours is not an unreal witness to Mr. Daniel Fried's next statement, in fact, it was one of the conditions of signing an agreement between Fried and Javier Solana, and I quote - the exception required, any disciplinary measure will remain in the jurisdiction of the United States and the status of US members of the mission will be in the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States. How does America do that? Contracts with companies such as Blackwater and a small door are signed, through the provision of certain officials who are members of the mission, foreign mercenaries who go wild all over the world are introduced to parts of the territory on which the United States is present. The issue referred by the SRS parliamentary group to the Prime Minister and to all those in charge – what will Serbia do in this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5696	The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic, and then Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5697	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, lately I've been asking for a number of notices from the government and resolution ministers, and no response, except I've received a reply from Mr. Dulic, regarding environmental protection, I haven't received. One announcement I ask the government - what will the government do, given that there is a price-related chaos on the market in the Republic of Serbia. First of all, the government must take appropriate measures. What will the government do to curb these food prices, repromated in agriculture? You now have a situation to export sugar tails from our country, and we import sugar produced from cane. Today, media reported that parity is a kilo of flour and a kilo of sugar, the same price. That's unacceptable. Why does the government allow monopolies to beat, harass and rob citizens with prices? Both producers and consumers suffer enormous damage due to the wrong policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, I request a notice from the competent ministry in the government of the Republic of Serbia where the oldest brewery in the Balkans went, who is the first buyer of the Panchea brewery to be built in 1722 and is now out of work 200 workers? What will the government do to prevent these machinations, speculation and crime in privatisation? Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President of Parliament, if you'll allow me, given that we are blocked, we cannot speak in the media either electronically or in the printed media... You know there are local elections in Ruma, Književci, Vrnjačka Banja and Prijepolje. The Serbian Radical Party in that direction... Please allow me to inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, those who participate in the local elections in these municipalities, so Ruma, Kljaževec, Vrnjačka Banja and Prepolje, that they are voting for the Serbian Radical Party, which is an unlimited opportunity to prevent crime and corruption and will not cheat or lie to citizens, as many have lied during the election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5698	You abused the pay phone. You've sent a political message, but that's what citizens are estimating. I remind you, gentlemen of the MPs, that a large number of citizens expect legislative activity in parliament, not political. The word is Judith Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5699	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is normal that it is not recommended and it is not right to abuse the Rules of Procedure, however, it is not wrong for the legislator to abuse the powers given to him to propose a law. You remember, when we passed the Ministry Act, it was said that the new ministries will not burden the budget, we will not have any higher costs because of the new ministries. That bill was passed and we got new ministries. Now in this proposal, the rebalancing law is listed as one of the reasons for the budget deficit and the fact that we have new ministries. It's not just that we have new ministries, we have cabinets, we have offices, we have advice that overlaps competences, and therefore the costs that also burden this budget. I would just like to quote, say, the cabinet of the Prime Minister, the cabinet of the first Deputy Prime Minister, the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development, for social policy, for European integration. For example, the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration has a budget of 91 million dinars, and there is also a European Integration Office that has a budget of 81 million dinars. I ask the question - why the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration, if there is already a taxary? When we compare the budget of Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic's Prime Minister to the cabinet of the first Deputy Prime Minister who has a budget of 17 million dinars, then there's a big difference, and the question is, why is there such a big difference between the two cabinets? There we could count the other cabinets, as well as the social affairs cabinet, where a budget of 10 million dinars is projected. Why do we have ministries in charge of organising and regulating social policy? Therefore, all of this is public spending, all of this burdens the budget, all of which today raises an important question whether or not to vote for budget rebalancing, when the budget deficit is three times higher than last year. The LDP will not vote for this bill. We find this bill harmful.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5700	The word is made by MP Dragan Vujadinovic and then by Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5701	I refer to articles 100 - 104. The Rules of Procedure, and for that occasion, I also brought the digitron. Please, I'm protesting the intentional extension of the debate that's practically over. We had a debate in principle, it's practically over and now it's deliberately extending. Instead of being all eager for the finance minister to answer our questions. We're extending the debate in a number of ways, but the most Augustant way is to talk about details. We have exhausted the possibilities of debate in principle, and now we are asking questions concerning directly individual amendments, or individual divisions, whether it concerns the revenue, whether it is the expenditure side, and before us 84 amendments times 150 minutes per parliamentary group, that is 12,600 minutes, that is 210 hours, or 21 hours per parliamentary group. Is it too little time to ask all the questions that concern any of the appraisals, whether on the side of the income, or on the side of the expenditure? One debate that's over we're artificially extending and those questions that are just about to come to order now. We're acting unfair, and we should work at least correctly to come up with this discussion of details, when everyone will have the right to talk about every amendment. In the end, I invite you to include each of us, regardless of whether it is on the left or right, that button that serves to regulate the moral categorical imperative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5702	Happy Peric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Madam Minister, Mr Vujadinovic, I respect you, but if it's little that you stole our 20 parliamentary mandates, you want to steal my time as a matter of principle. I've been waiting, and you've already declared here that the debate is in principle over. No, Mr. Vujadinovic, after me there are four other MPs from the SRS Parliament Club who need to talk about this. Madam Minister, this is the first more serious challenge of this government. For what? This is a check, a law on amendments and additions to the 2008 Budget Law, but it is also over. Krkobic wanted something... I respect five fellow Members of the People's Parliament who, with all their heart and soul, are fighting for pensions. And the SRS stands for raising pensions, for all categories of people with disabilities, for young people and for students, and for some people to get jobs, that's our goal. The goal is, of course, to increase pensions. But this rebalancing proposal did not respect basic categories such as inflation, increased public spending, major problems related to global economic policy. You say you're only interested in numbers and you're right, but this has to be somebody else's interest. I mean you in particular. You said this budget rebalance was done recently, and I'm telling you it's certainly not nearly done. The explanation on page 90 says - a relatively stable course of dinar is expected. Citizens of Serbia, do we today have a stable course of dinars? We don't have, compared to the euro, of course. The price of crude oil on the world market is not stable, it is falling; we have a situation that on July 11th 2008 oil barrels were to be allocated $147.27 and on October 24, 63 dollars. You didn't even have that in mind. What happened in Serbia? It happened that now it is thought that the price should be reduced by a dozen dinars, which is a total reduction of about fifteen dinars from the moment we had that highest price of crude oil. Is there a price growth control in the public sector when a few days ago we had an increase in gas prices by 60%? That's what most gas users could see for themselves. Not to mention the rise in prices to a few directly affecting inflation, which, on an annual scale, was seen in August 2007 - August 2008, at 10.5%. You're talking about single-digit inflation when we have a double-digit increase in prices; attention should be paid to that. The export base in Serbia is very small and we cannot quickly overcome the global economic crisis that exists, but we are increasingly hearing statements by officials in Serbia who say -- why hasn't this happened at a global level, Serbia would benefit from that? It is predicted that we can profit from this global economic crisis. You don't have to be an economist at all, so know that's not possible, you just have to live in this country. (President: Time. You've come a long way. I thought you might have started speaking within the time of the SRS. ) If it is not a problem for the SRS parliamentary group this minute, how many of you have interrupted me, don't count, because I am speaking within the time available for the SRS parliamentary group. (President: All right, proceed as freely as you like. You can go up to 25 minutes. You spoke in your election campaigns... That's when it's allowed, it's not nice, but it's allowed in an election campaign maybe to deceive citizens, but when you become a government, you can't do that. Mladjan Dinkic, from his position as economy minister, promised to pay off free shares. There's nothing out of it today. He explained it like when you promised a child you'd take him for a walk a month in advance, and then it rained, and then you couldn't take him out. He compares it to the elemental disasters, and the major elemental disasters of the government's composition for Serbian citizens could not have happened. After all, the President of the Republic says - it is not the idea to save by closing jobs, but by opening up new jobs, thus providing for the basic living needs of people, and in the future, hopefully, to a high level of living standards for citizens. And there's a growing number of unemployed. How do you achieve a better life for the citizens? It is achieved, above all, by a stable political situation. Do we have it now? We do not, because officials in Serbia do not want to pay attention to the national problems Serbia faces, then, the price stability, which we also do not have, and employment, rather than just increasing profits, even pensions. What kind of situation do we have now? Nominally, wages have grown; we expect an increase in pensions on November 10th, related to October. But with all these price hikes for a little bit, what are we going to get? We're gonna lose all those increases. Let's let Jovan Krkobic become aware of what the IMF says and what his colleagues in the government say, that it would not be right, not to bring down the government, but to bring down the state. Let us allow ourselves to have an understanding of that part, but we currently have such a situation and that there is an increase in illogical incomes and pensions, not to mention subsidies... I recently said that funds are needed for a wheat sowing, for one hectare, in the autumn 500 euros and in the spring of 250 to 300 euros, and we have through the subsidies 120 euros per hectare. The minister said it was also a big problem for the budget. I will now return to the beginning of her presentation, to the presentation of the Minister of Finance on the Committee on Finance and at the National Assembly session. About, we need to rebalance the budget because we have too much resources, so to spend it, you've set out what priorities, we now need to rebalance the budget, so we have a budget deficit of 45 billion. I think this budget is wasteful. I can agree with your statements made outside this section, but the way you defend this law here is not acceptable to the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5704	Mr Vladan Batić, pa Konstantin Arsenović, Milan Dimitrijevic, Milan Avramović, Marina Ragus etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5705	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on budget rebalancing and what we hear from individual Deputy Prime Ministers and ministers over a hundred days of government work reminds the time of the regime's rule of Slobodan Milosevic. Why? When individual vice-presidents of the government and ministers tell you that the global financial crisis will have a favourable impact on events in Serbia, then it is the echo of that story at the time of sanctions when sanctions are said to have a favourable impact on individual branches of economy, that we will have a Swedish standard and Swiss national income, as if we live in a time machine. However, it seems normal to me that some followers of Slobodan Milosevic, who are in power today, such as the deputy president, first vice president and interior minister, do not respect the obligation to appear before the court; when the second minister first hires his brother and nephew and says "I don't know anything about it" (first disrespect of the rule of law, then nepotism), and the third minister takes pictures every Wednesday and Friday on the bypass and deceives Serbian citizens when it will be finished. That's not supposed to happen. On behalf of the DHSS, I ask the Minister's question, she may not be in charge, but to the Government, however, how is it explained and how can the Socially Responsible Government explain that the basic life supplies produced in Serbia, such as milk, dairy products, oil, sugar, medicines, are more expensive in Serbia than in Montenegro? You belong to the Socially Responsible Government. How are you going to explain this to the citizens of Serbia? The other day, although not directly your jurisdiction, we from the DHSS are from the government, which appoints directors of public enterprises, asking to replace Bojan Kristo, director of Belgrade Airport. I gave you those papers. How can the government be socially responsible when, on the board of directors of the airport, I didn't give it to you, people receive monthly compensations of 166,000 dinars, and I assume that one man, president, receives 208,000 dinars or a gross of 250,000 dinars. (President: Time. ) It is ten times the average salary in Serbia. They may hold one a month, perhaps not one session of the board of directors, and then the same director of the airport has accounts for airline services, say, for flight to Zurich and back to 178,643 dinars. I asked in JAT, it's a triple-price business class to Zurich and back. That's over 2,000 euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5706	National MP Konstantin Arsenovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5707	I'm advertising Article 104. The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, above all, I am addressing the pensioners and I would like to confirm to them the truthfulness of certain statements by the MPs who said that in the propaganda campaign, pensioners were not the subject of their interest. It is true that the Democratic Party of Serbia has never treated the pensioners' problem. That's why she passed the pension system laws that many said were genocide, so that's where the 10% pension increase is now the problem. Is the problem now that the party that has promised and kept its promise in its promotion? I haven't replicated to you, I listen to you all the time, let me talk to you in three minutes. I am pleased that this coalition, which has a socially responsible authority, keeps its promises gradually; it cannot all be realised at once, but be sure that we will do everything possible to keep all those promises that we made to our pensioners. Next, there is a single attack on pensioners here, in the sense that pensioners are morally responsible for the future state of the country's economy, that these 10% and future amendments to the law will destroy the economy. You don't have the patience to listen to anything you say, you don't want to hear the truth, you only hear what you're saying. (President: Please allow Mr Arsenović to address. I tell the pensioners that they have no moral responsibility for the future state of affairs in the country. By their work, everything we have today, materially, cultural wealth and all, they deserve and have no moral responsibility to bear moral blame for the future. Well, blame them here. I want to say this now and I'm glad there are opposition MPs who support the position that it is necessary to improve the state of pensioners. It will only make it easier for us to fulfill our promise in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5708	National MP Milan Dimitrijevic, then Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5709	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 226. Before I start talking about that article, I want to tell the gentleman from the United Pensioners Party: what you said, that you gained and that you got your work, that's true, and no one slows it down. At least the DSS is against raising pensioners, but you see who in Europe is telling you if it's real and whether it's possible. They're the ones you signed it with. That's what this is about. It is not a disputed Democratic Party of Serbia, nor can pensioners bear moral responsibility, just work. Read carefully what anyone says and what anyone thinks about it. Now under Article 226. Madam President, I've started talking about one subject, he's reported to the Rules of Procedure, and the subject is very important to you since you're a doctor. You'll understand what I'm talking about. A pharmaceutical house in Serbia sells drugs to the Republic Health Insurance Institute at a price almost seven times higher than for the same medicines sold in Montenegro. We asked how it was possible. It is possible that there is no tender for prescriptions, because the Republic Public Procurement Authority has advised not to call a tender, but to negotiate with large drugstores and pharmacies. I wouldn't prejudge things, things will come to the place they're going to come, because everything has its own place, you'll see what's going to happen. Mr. Prime Minister has promised socially endangered categories of free healthcare; here is free healthcare. The law on write-offs on the backlog of health insurance contributions waited a year and a half, many people couldn't verify the books, here's how they got free health care. It's a socially responsible government. That's the political story, that's those pre-election promises. One medicine in Montenegro seven times cheaper than in Serbia. Social government. These are the questions you don't have an answer to. These are the questions why this government, if it had any responsibility, would have resigned at the moment without talking about other major state issues. You're not interested in the state, the people, the health of the people, you're not interested in anything, just from the division of public enterprises, from the boards in your own pocket, it's the only policy run by the DS. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5710	The word is made by MP Milan Avramovic, and then by Mrs Ragus.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, members of 225 and 226. Simply, some who go out for this pay phone and don't understand what they said and cause a series of answers. The answer always comes sooner or later. Just to remind the citizens first, including the MPs who are currently in the hall: the basis for the fact that the PUPS did not join the coalition with today's opposition was an inconclusive plan and offers to increase pensions to pensioners. When the Serbian Radical Party said -- people, you can't do it overnight, you can't get 70% of the average salary to receive every pensioner, first it needs to be determined how much money (they don't even know today how much money) then to determine the budget, to do the rebalancing or whatever it takes for next year, so let's talk, no, they said -- it's not in the interest of us pensioners, we're going with DS, with SPO, with G 17 plus. What's going on today? A regime TV shows younger Krkobibic, the president of pensioners, and says -- in 2010, we will succeed in achieving the goals of the pre-election campaign. Just to remind you that there is no such floscule in the Prime Minister's exposé that you call upon today. Here's what the exposé says -- the government of the Republic of Serbia plans to increase pensions by 10% by September 2008 at the latest. What month is it now? Has the government increased anything? Did you honor what you entered the coalition for? In power? Did you make any of this happen? The only question is whether you entered this power for all pensioners or for yourself. It's a simple question. We've advocated in principle that pensioners have a better position, but we haven't had any physical options, because that's what we've been left with. Another very important thing, if you're going to wait for 2010 to get what you want, why don't you leave the government, then you'll go back in in 2010. Why don't you come out to achieve your goals? Because of these same goals, you refused the coalition with today's opposition. I have a lot of time to retire, but I have two pensioners in the house and I'm saying what they're thinking. Don't advertise just in the election campaign. Read the exposés of this government that you participated in, and you'll see that you're wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5712	The word is Mrs. Marina Ragush, and then Mr. Shormaz, if he's here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I hope you'll include these 13 seconds, since I'm going to quote this article: "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. "Station 2: "The People's Messengers are obliged to address one another with respect. "Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I think you have violated the dignity of one of the MPs of the National Assembly, Mr. Jojic, and therefore the SRS MP club, by saying that he has abused the speaker and that, imagine, he has sent a political message. What is very strange here, almost confusing, is what is expected of representatives of citizens, or citizens of Serbia, except that political views of different political options come to what is, Mr. Vujadinovic, a top-notch categorical imperative for a national MP, which is a man's life worth living in Serbia. So here you can hear political attitudes. We hope to fight the political will in this way, talking about those topics that have obviously been expelled from all official institutions and placed on the streets of the city of Belgrade; we are afraid, soon, of all major cities in Serbia. That the function of the Assembly is not only legislative, says the Constitution, since you said that the Assembly should deal with its legislative function; among other things, in Part Five, the Order of Authorities, it is said: "In the framework of its election rights, the National Assembly elects the Government, oversees its work and decides on the termination of the government's mandate and ministers. "The ruling majority and you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, must say that we are not looking forward to the increasingly difficult situation in Serbia, that we are trying our best to improve the daily life of citizens, citizens of Serbia. That doesn't go our way, I'm afraid. For what reason? Because we're media-blocked, because there's no political will here by the ruling majority that we're all trying to talk together about how to overcome the financial crisis that we've received terribly. This is not about irrational and illiterate people, but about people who are trying to understand the problems of the executive government, but the executive government is being arrogant, because he absolutely doesn't want to hear the opposition's views. He doesn't give the necessary explanations and explanations. Our citizens, the ones who elected us and brought us to this assembly, slowly but surely come to full slave status. I apologize for these nine, or that's what belongs to me by quoting a member. The international scene and the world is in front of Breton Woods... Just to remind you, he's got financial institutions like we knew and they don't exist anymore. The public needs to know that the ruling majority does not feel the need to tell the Assembly what we will do accordingly. You will see, it won't be long, it will be a question of all issues in Serbia. (President: Time. I'm sorry again and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5714	Mr. Jojic called for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, members of 225 and 226, and then called for votes for the Serbian Radical Party. I just commented that it was a political message, not an explanation for the violation of the Rules of Procedure and those members, so I don't think I've hurt the dignity of Mr Jojic and any MP. Mr. Shormaz isn't in the O.R. Please, Mr. Momir Markovic, i.e. Mirko Munjic, then Momir Markovic. There are 16 minutes left for the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5715	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, for the last year we have been living in conditions of permanent inflation growth from projected 6% at the beginning of this year to 9.5%, according to the Serbian government's beliefs at the end of the year, with a group of very serious economists showing us and proving that inflation is already 12.5% at this point, which represents an almost 100% increase compared to the projected. There is also a group, also serious, economists in Serbia, who say that if you were to calculate inflation the way your friends in the European Union do, which is in a way that the increase in the cost of life is a basic criterion for calculating inflation, it would be 16% at this point in Serbia, with a tendency to further increase. Furthermore, neoliberalism in its completely cruel system, as ideology and as a way of life, has been harassing the European Union, therefore Western European countries, and the United States for 20 years, in its cruelty and seems to be now in the zenith, and I would say at the beginning of the collapse, due to the collapse of the financial market in the countries of Western Europe and the United States. Gentlemen, for the last 20 years, the United States has printed dollars without cover. These dollars mostly bought oil on the world market, and all that was good until these dollars began to return to the US market in enormous quantities. It is one of the reasons for the major economic crisis that will in fact lead to the recession in 1929 and 1930. In its strength, this neoliberalism first brought down the states and all those barriers that were between the states, in order to then focus on the national and then religious definitions of the population. All the power of that neoliberalism has been felt by us. Large forces have been printing huge amounts of these dollars in recent years, but they are now, especially the United States, going back to printing huge amounts of dollars and in fact returning to them as a boomerang. It's like pouring hot oil on a fire. That'll probably lead to a huge recession in these countries. When there's a big world financial trouble, then I'm sure there's no big mercy compared to small ones, because they're doing business here on the principle of ut des -- let me give it to them, and we've only got a few more public enterprises to sell, and that's the end. When it's over, there's nothing left to sell, and then we're gonna have a big problem. As far as this budget rebalance is concerned, I'm telling you precisely because the projectors of this budget rebalancing absolutely didn't take care of everything I said about the global financial crisis. In her address, the minister mentioned it, Malten, in just one or two sentences, that the financial crisis on the world market will not reflect much and will not affect our financial market much. We even heard from a former prime minister of the Republic of Serbia last night that it's a good thing we're a poor and economically undeveloped state, because in that case we won't be hit by a financial crisis. That a man doesn't believe. What will lead us to, in fact, the more we spend than we've produced? Here's to what: first, new duties, of course unfavourable, generations and generations, will return what the current government owes. Next, the general price rise. We'll stick to New Year's probably, and you'll see, as of New Year's Eve, there will be an enormous price rise, which will cause a tremendous crisis on our financial market. Further, the instability of the dinar course. We, unfortunately, learn from the newspapers that the dinar course is growing dizzy and will soon reach 90 dinars per euro. Gentlemen, when he reaches that psychological border of 100 dinars per euro, that's the end, the financial and economic end of this country. Furthermore, the lack of real sources of income. I said a little while ago, we only have a few major public enterprises that we can sell and then nothing else. It will be very difficult to sell even these large public enterprises. And, fifth, increased inflation. I think inflation next year (I don't want it, normally, or any of us) will be enormously high. I think we're gonna land sometime. This athensing will be quite painful, unfortunately for Serbian citizens, for most of Serbia's population. Some will leave, some will flee the country safely, most unfortunately will remain, but at least they will be sure who has been cheating on them all this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5716	Mr. Momir Markovic, nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a budget rebalance which we have otherwise criticised so much when it was brought just for a few things. First, both that budget and this rebalancing are consumer, wasteful, unbalanced, unrealistic, not developmental and non-saving. Already in Article 1, when we look at how much income we have in the budget, or receiving budgets, we see that total incomes are, so what every host can have, what's in that state pocket, 650,174.345.330 dinars. Total consumption for this year is, and back several years, always spending exceeds income, 695,959,075,793 dinars. I remind you, where Minister Mladjan Dinkic sat down today as finance minister, when he was drilling into his chest and talking -- we have a surplus, so after two months -- we have a deficit, it was about 13-14 billion. This time we have 45 billion more expenses than we have in our budget. Of course, it's all going to be translated into next year, to the next budget revenue, and we're going to owe the state as much as we can. When you look at how these funds will be collected, it's over the back of citizens again and again the last landscaper out of the citizens' pockets, because it says this - total income: tax revenues - 606 billion; citizen income tax - 76 billion; corporate income tax - 36. This is proof that companies don't work. This is proof that you can't if nothing is produced, you can't even take a tax. Value added tax - 315.642.230.983 dinars, which will say, the country's value added tax - 88 billion (so these are the revenues from the country on products produced in Serbia); value added tax from imports - 222 billion. When you take this as 18% of what's being imported into this country, you'll understand that nothing is literally produced in this country, that almost nothing works, nothing works. When we look at how we will continue to be in debt, Article 3, the state of Serbia will issue guarantees. When the state of Serbia issues guarantees to the lender, it is certain that if it does not pay the company that took the loan, it will have to pay the state. At the end of the line, you remember how many of those guarantee laws we ratified here in the Assembly. So, the World Bank, the Yugoslav Railways, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the JP "The Paths of Serbia", the rehabilitation of the Gazela Bridge, local self-government, reconstruction of the municipal infrastructure, "The Railways of Serbia", again the vehicles, the European Investment Bank and again the JP "The Roads of Serbia" etc. It's listed on three or four sides, to make total... However, they didn't calculate total because they would know it would be criticised. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in 2000, the state of Serbia owed about six billion and a few dollars, and today Serbia's debt is over 19 billion. Public debt, I'm talking about dollars, the debt of the Serbian state is over 19 billion. Public debt in domestic currency, that's what the citizens of Serbia owe, the state of Serbia is a long-term paper... In fact, this is what the state of Serbia was in charge of issuing securities of value for future production, for some future revenues, long-term securities of value, liabilities based on unpaid pensions to farmers, liabilities based on outstanding pensions in the employee fund, short-term securities of value, etc. When it's all over, it's about 30 billion in debt. As far as retirement is concerned, there's one illogicalness I have to mention from this pay phone. It's about military pensions. If, for example, the colonel retired last year, he will have half the pension of the colonel who retired this year. How? You see, Minister, you can recalculate there. Says the Minister... Here, we have a plan for 2008, it was 639,600,289,635 dinars. The increase in this rebalancing is 10,547,055,695. Therefore, the new plan is 650,174,345,330. Budget expenditure - 680,548,763,000 was planned. Increase - 15.410.331,000 etc. Total budget expenditure - 695 million. There was a budget deficit of 40 billion. It's 45 now. In his opening statement, the minister said, we only increased five billion. We've increased the debt, Madam Minister, by another five billion; it's not just five, it's another five. The budget minus is 45,785,000. I have to leave my colleagues for a few more minutes, otherwise I'd keep talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5718	Mr. Zivanovic has the word. You've got another minute and a half, two. Make sure you send the messages you want within two or three minutes without being in line with the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5719	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I wanted to tell you a lot about the problems that exist today in Serbia, or to suggest certain solutions, but probably because of the lack of time I won't be able to say it. I'll probably use the amendments to bring it up. There's something I need to tell you. Would you like to sit here for a year without getting paid, like a peasant does today, for a year working and there's nothing? When he adds and subtracts everything at the end of the year, he's invested about 40,000, and 40 grand is eventually won, and then he's not even at a positive zero. That's why I'm asking you, because more than half of you who receive salaries here are gone, if you didn't receive salaries, would anyone be in this assembly at all after a year? Ladies and gentlemen, I was at a scientific meeting in Moscow, and when I was exposed, they told me -- it's a good thing you can put your theory into practice. But I couldn't say, because I shouldn't have said, in practice, where many companies don't work at all, and especially the factory where I worked, the Zorca chemical industry from Capca, or basic chemistry, the mineral fertilizer factory. Five of the largest factories, not only in the old Yugoslavia, but in Europe, they don't work at all, they don't work at all. Who's going to produce the raw material that's needed as a repromaterial used by peasants to cheat nature, so they can feed you, both me and you? It is the most painful thing that today's economy in Serbia is not working. And look at this when the expert minister says - I have high knowledge and my expertise. It's a good thing you have it, but I'm asking you if, as you say and as it says here, over 80 million (I think it's over 80, I can't right now... ) do you owe the agricultural producers for their pensions back? He says it's a debt. You know what, am I going to stand in front of my father, cry and say what I'm going to do now, you're in charge of it and who's going to pay it back? Normally, I have to get it back, because if you've already started... You know what it's called, when you're in a wheel, you're in your feet. So you should have taken that debt, not to say -- we don't know where we're going and what we're going to do with that debt that we owe the biggest heroes of work, which is peasants.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5720	Thank you. Does the representative of the Proposer Mrs. Dragutinovic want a word? Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5721	Dear People's MPs, Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, I am truly sorry that you weren't only pleased with my presence in this house. I personally thought this was a rebalance, and that the rebalancing isn't the most important law, the rebalancing doesn't change everything but something. The subject of the rebalancing is additional revenue, additional expenditure and additional deficits. I am sure that when the budget for next year is adopted, the other representatives of the government will be present. Also, I'm very sorry that in most cases I couldn't recognize my words. The way you interpreted them, I say most of them, I don't say all of them, it just doesn't match what I said. As far as I know, no country has ever done budget rebalances due to the financial crisis. That's not what Serbia was doing either. The financial crisis couldn't have been predicted. Fiscal policy is most often done for a period of three years, less than a year. However, I cannot without answering some of the questions raised by the government and the National Bank of Serbia, which are related to the financial crisis and that the government is doing nothing about it. It's done enough. First thing, there's a order of moves. When a financial crisis occurs, the first performer is the National Bank of Serbia, the central banking institution. When she takes everything in her power, the state comes. I don't play football and I don't understand much about football and that kind of sport, but that's what they say, the last line of defense, I think that's how I explained the role of the state at this point. The government has passed changes in several laws that are directly related to the consequences of the financial crisis. The fact is, the opposition gave rise to the idea of amending the Deposit Insurance Act. He's been changed. It's just the amount of security deposit now. There's something called the viewing effect. When you look at everyone in your environment and in the European Union providing a deposit of up to 50,000 euros, you will not make the guaranteed amount smaller. Is there a cover? Let me explain. There is. First of all, in countries where deposit insurance or deposit insurance funds exist, there is no mandatory deposit reserve. In our system, the deposits of the population and savings are already double secured. Find an example of a country in a world where there is a mandatory reserve on foreign exchange savings, especially at 40%. That means that 40 percent is completely covered. It's on the central bank account and it's the safest place. Lands that have a deposit insurance fund don't have a mandatory reserve. We have both. Otherwise, insurance and the insurance principle are based on the fact that everyone or most of them are paying, and that they only use the one they need. So, in addition to the secure 40% of the foreign exchange deposits that lie in the central bank's account, there's still the Deposit Insurance Fund, and the insurance is based on the principle that all or the vast majority are paying and not necessary for everyone. Because what does it mean to be needed by everyone? It means that there's no financial system at all, that everything falls apart, which is really completely unrealistic. So these laws have been changed. The laws were passed by the government and they are already in parliament. What else is done? Changes in fiscal regulations have been announced, in particular regulations that should in some way continue to stimulate the development of the securities market and stimulate domestic savings. Therefore, the interest tax will be suspended temporarily, and it will certainly have a stimulating effect on savings, as some taxes that were not really typical and which burdened trade in securities with value will be abolished. That's where the role of the state ends. There's still this last line of defense - that the state intervenes. It has already done so in the previous budget, though, not to save that bank but to increase capital, so the state is, to increase the capital of the Commercial Bank or the Post Office, but to inject money, it's not a secret, it's what you adopted with the budget. She intends to have it still as, possibly, the last line of defense. As for the questions that are being asked to me, and regarding the different statements by Mr. Krkobbic and Mr. Dinkic on the same subject, I would still like to say once again that every decision is a choice and that what you are doing here today is a struggle and that is also a struggle within the government. Thus, fighting is an integral part of life and something that is normal. I don't know if it's red or blue, but anyway, I think you, left and right, and I'm fighting with you today for something. Also, in the government, every decision and budget and rebalancing is the result of this struggle. Someone in that fight goes worse, someone better, and that's a decision, it's a compromise and consensus. I don't think there's anything controversial about that. What will be the result of the fight will best show the 2009 budget. You won't, I hope, be so impatient, he'll be here soon. In the discussion conducted by Mrs. Micic, I really didn't recognize my words. I never said I was happy with the budget and I never said he was good. Not because it's not, but because it's in the nature of a man never to be satisfied and it can always be better. I never said public spending was low. It's about her using the word waste. I prefer to say that fiscal policy is moderately pro-cyclical. She is, and I don't argue with that. By the way, I remind you that most of that consumption is, we talked about it in the previous days, yet certain laws and laws are passed by this parliament. Mr. Shami asked what a socially responsible policy is. Unfortunately, the economy is not a natural science, as much as I, say, wanted it to be as natural as possible. If I knew the exact formula, I'd tell you. I know that this budget definitely needs to protect the most vulnerable part of the population and I definitely know that in a budget that is nearly 60% of your expenditure is intended for different types of social expenditure. As for the course's movement and whether it's possible to predict how the course is going to move, I don't think so. You can never predict with certainty because the course movement is the result of very different events and our reactions to these events. The fact is that the dinar is falling today, the fact is that during the period when we were doing the rebalancing dinar, it's not the first time that we've had it happen. If we just want to look at history a little bit, the hour is growing, the hour is falling, as oil prices are rising, the hour is falling; as interest rates in the world is rising, the hour is falling; as the price of some products is rising, the hour is falling. As far as the 2009 deficit is concerned, and what kind of government will lead to politics, a smaller deficit, but still a deficit, is planned independently of the effects of the financial crisis. I think fiscal policy will be even more responsible, with respect for the effects of the financial crisis. Is the deficit covered or not covered? Anything the state does as an expense must be covered. What's it covered with? Mr. Ilic, I don't know if he's here, asked me the same question as the day before, he's interested in where the privatisation money is. I can only tell him one thing, if he's not here by accident, or if he's not interested in my answer, all that's left after the government's departure, all that's still in the country's account. I can tell you exactly what's left: The Slave Houses aren't spent, about something under 500m euros still lying in the country's account. These are neutral privatisation revenues. It's not all spent. What the government spent on it can't be affected. All that's left is still standing. Also, it's new loans. I see that's why you often complain, you don't like the state to be in debt, but I say, find an example of a country that doesn't owe. You may want us to be an exception, but as long as the payments are higher than the new government debt is actually due. You can see that from the public debt data. Public debt's falling. The public debt that this country repays and all these old debts to pensioners did not create this government. They were created a long time ago. This government and the previous government since 2000. 2001, they pay back the debt that was created earlier. I think when a man borrows something he should also return; if he can't get out of regular income, he has to sell something. Many debts were created in the past and they must return. I don't know if Mr Popovic is here, I guess he didn't make it; this is the answer for him, and I don't know how much I need to burden you with that. What I am definitely behind is that the fiscal result shown in this budget is the best indicator of the character of fiscal policy, far better than that of the previous indicator on which the 2008 budget was made. The methodology changes. I stand behind the deficit being increased not, as he said, 10 billion, but five billion. I can talk to him about technical details. Also, Mr Popovic was surprised that the deficit coverage was foreseen as one of the possible sources of state bond emissions. I'd remind him it's a standard way of covering the deficit. This country will use it, too. It's used by other countries. You're taking away some demand for the state to spend more. So that's the standard way to finance the deficit. Believe me, I know what the best fiscal policy is. You can trust me or not. The best is neutral. That's what we can talk about. Everyone has a right to their own opinion. The best fiscal policy is a neutral, balanced budget or, perhaps even better, a countercyclical one, but if it's countercyclical in terms of such a financial crisis, which you're talking to me today as if I'm not aware of, exactly the best answer is expansion fiscal policy. However, I would prefer the neutral, or balance. As for my opinion on the increase in pensions, I think I have spoken my opinion publicly, and I have recognized some of these exhibits in your words today. So, personally, I don't like linear measures, I don't think they solve anything, and I suggested something different, but, as I said, the decision is always a compromise. But compromise is something that is normal in political and economic life. The budget was made in September of the month when, as I have already mentioned, the situation was completely different. Pensions, asked by Mr Batic, increased three times this year: for the first time in January by 11%, roughly, for the second time in April by approximately 6.9%, the third time will be now in November, since the October pension, and that will be exactly 10% plus 4.3, so 14.3. When we perform an appropriate operation, pensions have increased by over 35% this year, and in this pension increase I don't count on pensioners coming back every year. By the way, I know the Montenegro market and I must admit that I was quite surprised by the fact that prices are far lower in Montenegro than in Serbia. I can say definitely, I know for sure, the water's far more expensive there, almost like milk, electricity, kilowatt-hour, it's also far more expensive, the drugs fortunately I haven't bought so I can't tell you, the market is... Something more expensive is likely, but a significant number of products in Serbia are cheaper. It should not be forgotten that VAT is lower in Montenegro, that customs rates are lower; all this can explain differences. What matters most is that if the same basket of goods is compared in Serbia-Montenegro, I don't know, but on the basis of my annual vacation in Montenegro in the last 20 years, I know that Montenegro is definitely not a cheaper country for life. There was also a question of whether there was a loss of foreign currency savings. It certainly has, however, been undeniable that the banking sector has been stable enough to absorb the decline, and according to the latest information I have, probably as a result of the increased interest rates, banks are already increasing the net deposit. In any case, I think the National Bank of Serbia regularly publishes data on reserves. That would be mostly what I wanted to tell you today. All the other questions I didn't think of I'd leave for the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5722	Mrs Dragutinović, allow me to thank you for the extremely reasonable clarifications. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5723	Dear fellow Members of the People, I wanted to thank you on your behalf for this exhaustive presentation of Ms. Secretary of Finance, but I would like to give her one question, since in these late evening hours, about 19 hours, she almost hypnotized us here in the O.R., and the rest of us were 50 days - what she was doing here for two days if she did not find it appropriate that the MPs who were with her had sex with her or who gave their opinion that an answer, their own opinion, their own vision of the problem, had the opportunity to respond again, to seek an additional opinion, but had brought us in such a situation to answer to MPs who were no longer here, I think it was inappropriate, with a smiling, smiling, smiling face. I come to the conclusion that the lady completely missed her profession; she could have been acting and everyone would have believed she was the finance minister. If the citizens are watching this, and surely they're watching it, then the little church girls they have at home, if they've collected something for the dark days, will immediately take it to the bank and don't even think about whether they're safe or not. In order to raise those churches that people have put on hand savings, there are rows, people can't reach their couples, wait for a week, the lists are getting bigger, they don't trust the state, and you're convincing us of something quite the opposite. Dear citizens, the state promises us bigger pensions, bigger salaries, less impositions, which is contradictory; we will not go bankrupt at all, although we are 100% ahead of bankruptcy; it will not accumulate anything; we are in a much better position than Montenegro, Croatia, Slovenia and the country in the environment, everything is pink. So listen to the minister; as the minister says, that's how it is. I'm asking Mrs. Minister to take a stenogram from the assembly session and read it herself next year, so she can see where she's been. Theoretically, she may be right, but in practice, Madam Minister, it's something else entirely. Don't live in a virtual world or present this world as such, because we're ordinary people living ordinary lives. We know how to live, how hard it is to live, how unemployed he is, how many pensioners he's retired, how much pensions are. We know that this country ate all of its substance and when it sells this little thing that's left we no longer have where to get the money to make up for those social benefits. Where are we going? Do we want to re-nationalize the property? Probably that, but then it'll be another system, not the one you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5724	Mr. Jojic, according to the Rules of Procedure and then Mr. Aligrudić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5725	Thank you. Madam President, here's an explanation from the finance minister. Gentlemen, just one definition, one thought, if you want to hear what the theory of parallel law says: "Budget is the microsurgery of a state, and the most dangerous service in the state is the Ministry of Finance and its right hand, tax administration. "
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5726	Mr. Aligrudić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5727	It's impossible not to react to what was heard by the Minister. Some things really stand for what is said when it comes to neutrality and other things. However, when answering MPs' questions, it would really be good if you could get the strength to answer these questions directly on the agenda point, either immediately or at least after the presentation of several MPs, first, because of the consistency of the work in parliament and secondly, so as to make it easier to hear what the answer has to do with the question that has been asked. I specifically asked you a question, I asked the entire government, but you are a representative of the government at the moment, and my question was very simple -- how is it possible that the government 15 days ago or individual representatives of the government or the ruling structure in Serbia tell the bill, which was submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia, to secure deposits by raising from 3,000 euros to 20,000 euros that the demagogue is and that the way the people are afraid and driven from business banks, or to force fear into the bones of citizens, and that 15 days later, the government comes out with a proposal on a secure sum of 50,000 euros, with an explanation given to the public, where is said to be the amount applied by the EU? In doing so, the law we have proposed has not been considered by you in the Government, nor has you given any answer to the bill submitted on our part, and you have an obligation to do so before you have proposed your bill to increase the amount of money provided. During that time, you claim that this is the amount recognised by the EU, that is what Mirko Cvetkovic said, not to mention that Germany, for example, has unlimited deposit coverage. In this regard, in the draft law, i.e. in the reasons provided to the National Assembly, which will be on the agenda of the following days, you argue that no additional appropriations are required for the implementation of this law. You see, our amount of 20,000 euros is for domestic opportunities and the total amount of individual savings stakes on average more than enough; it guarantees the safety of citizens that in a period where the state is obliged to react, e.g. for a period of 90 days, in the event that they have to react by covering the claim, their amount shall surely be charged. When you look at those sources that need to cover that deficit, you didn't show those sources. You're short five hundred million in that indicator. We should have about three billion, you have two billion and five hundred million. Based on those real sources that can be displayed at this point, you're short five hundred million. I asked you that. You don't answer that question because you don't have one. What's worst about this whole story is you're doing demagogy over demagogy. (President: Time. Thank you. I'm done. Instead of answering the question, and instead of reacting spotlessly to those treasures that come from the world and that will endanger domestic savings, you wait 20 days after the opposition parties have pointed out that you need to react and give one example of how you should react, so that you later react in a way that is completely inadequate. That's what the remark was. You have no answer to that remark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-28-0.u5728	Dear People's MPs, I conclude a principled review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the 2008 Budget of the Republic of Serbia and a single review of the proposals for decisions to agree on amendments and amendments to the 2008 Financial Plans of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, the National Employment Service and the Republic Health Insurance Institute. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock we will continue to work on the agenda by discussing the next points, such an agreement has been made among the heads of Parliament's groups, with you having 24 hours for amendments. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall right now, that there are more than one third of the MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the sittings to be attended by Natasa Kovacevic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Zorica Pavlovic, Assistant Minister of Health. We are moving to a common principle search of item 2 and 3 of the agenda: – Proposal for a law on the write-off of interest on the basis of certain taxes on contributions to compulsory social security and the proposal for a law on the rest and write-off of debt on the basis of a contribution to compulsory health insurance Consensually decided by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on proposals for the law of the agenda under points two and three, and before the opening of a common principle search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours in principle, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the G17 Group of MPs plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group – 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward, Serbia – 22 minutes and 48 seconds; the SPS-JS Group – 18 minutes; the LDP Group of MPs – 15 minutes and 36 seconds; the New Serbia Parliamentary Group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Salad Group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group – six minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to be represented by the following MPs under these points of the agenda: the Parliamentary Group of Minorities – Elvira Kovac, the Parliamentary Group Forward, Serbia-Jorganka Tabaković, the SPS-Single Serbia-Miletic Mihajlovic, the SRS MP group – Zoran Krasic. In accordance with Article 140(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: Proposal for a law on the write-off of interest on the basis of certain taxes and contributions to compulsory social security and the draft law on the settlement and write-off of debt on the basis of contributions to compulsory health insurance. First, Mr. Colakovic has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Yesterday was a misunderstanding, it wasn't written that Mr. Colakovic wanted to actually talk about the agenda point, so it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's just that it wasn't passed on to me, and I didn't give him my word. I know in advance that it is a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
