ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2115	Thank you. A group of DSS MPs asked the government why they were giving up the implementation of the Action Plan, which were changed when the government decided to return the withdrawn ambassadors to individual EU countries that recognised Kosovo's independence, why did it seem discontinuity in the conduct of state policy, and does Serbia thus capitulate in secret? The question was asked to the government, and we received a response from the government saying, "The new Government of the Republic of Serbia is not giving up on the Action Plan, but is partially harmonising it with the priorities it has set, which are Eurointegration and defence of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country." Then there are another five or six views, all in the same sense, with no concrete explanation or any connection to the Action Plan that was previously, at least partially, adopted in the previous Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is then said at one point that the Action Plan does not provide for the suspension of diplomatic relations with countries that recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence, so the return of our ambassadors does not constitute a re-establishment of these relations. I don't know what that means. So we didn't end diplomatic relations until the end, but we invited ambassadors to consult. It is the least possible measure the state could do to any country that dares to say that 15% of Serbia's territory does not belong to Serbia. Of course, the consultation is always called temporary, it takes a certain time, but there must be a certain moment for the return of these ambassadors. We of the DSS considered it before these elections, and we think now that the moment has not happened; so there is no new circumstance that would affect these ambassadors returning there. The improvement of relations between EU countries and Serbia or the failure of relations with individual EU countries, which will be demonstrated on our side by the return of ambassadors, is not a good argument at all, because some EU countries have, in bilateral terms, seriously ruined relations with Serbia by recognising Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence (they say only - Kosovo). It was a measure on their part. A radius on our part has been made and is now giving up, allegedly because it is necessary to defend Eurointegration as some modusa in which the state of Serbia should live next time. Of course, no one has anything against European integration, of course it was DSS policy, and it will be in the future, but there is a big problem, there is a problem how we can communicate with these countries, how we with them to make any decision about implementing integration, if we allow ourselves to be trampled in this way at any time and anytime. What kind of message are we sending them? We send them exactly the message they want to hear, at least the vast majority of EU countries, which is that, regardless of what they verbally say, no matter what they say, Kosovo and Metohija are not really important to us, that it is only the process of European integration, that the integrity of the state is not important. Because things are important here, not words. What the state does is what counts, not what the state officials say. That's what's very important. That's why we wanted to talk about all this before the election was called, but there was no one to talk to. That was a big problem. This response by the government, in fact, shows the ignoring of the issues raised and shows that indeed a single state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija has failed to the end. Thank you, this is exactly what I'm ending up with. What I'm saying is that in the course of today's session, there's no need to talk about this anymore. We'll talk about it when there's a resolution on the so-called agenda. Continuity, we say discontinuity, state policy when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, so there will be opportunities to discuss what the government says and how this resolution and its contents happened, what was supposed to be on the agenda, and it was not, and we hope it will be, so Serbian citizens will hear everything and probably understand everyone's views eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2116	Mr. Micunović, according to the Rules of Procedure. The contents of your discussion will be forwarded to the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2117	A colleague, Aligrudic, has just injured the Rules of Procedure. We can't mix parliamentary issues with the violations of the Rules of Procedure. The parliamentary issues have been arranged in a special way. The issue is addressed to the government, the government has answered this and it is a correspondence on the parliamentary issue. I'm sure it doesn't have anything to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. As far as the content is concerned, I must say that it should not be forgotten, and that should not be forgotten by counterpart Aligrudic, that one government led politics, had an Action Plan, that this is another government, which can adhere to this Action Plan more or less and can interpret it in a way that it considers to be complete. At no time could it be proved that the withdrawal of ambassadors and the interruption of communication contributed to Serbia. On the contrary, we have lost the channel to agitate for our further diplomatic steps, to get supporters of this lawsuit or opinions that we will announce to the International Court of Justice. That's why I don't think these questions that fall within the second section should be used here to hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2118	Here you go, replica, though the Rules of Procedure have an advantage for those who advertise the Rules of Procedure, but since it is the same parliamentary group, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2119	And this is kind of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, in Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of this Assembly states: "The National MP has the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly", you are the President of the Committee, but we did not ask you for any answer, "minister and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, and which they need to exercise the role of the MP". So we got an answer to one question in writing, which I thank the government for. I thought I had the right to, in the form in which we asked that question, comment on that answer, without having to go into any broader discussion about it today. So much for your intervention in that part. I can't help but remember one piece of your earlier exposure. I'd like to confirm what you said. Yes, it is two completely different governments: it was the previous government in an attempt to realise Serbia's state interest, and this is a government that is obviously not trying. That's a huge difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2120	Here you go, Mr. Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Rule 224. It is the right of MPs to call on that member, and it is related to the demands of the Serbian Radical Party MPs to determine all the facts of the SRS rally, not to repeat everything that has happened: the injury, the beating of MPs, the murder of Ranko Panic. You remember that, with regard to information from the Home Secretary sent to the President of the Assembly, we decided to continue our work on the agenda believing (and still believe) that the ruling majority really wants and intends to break up with this practice that has the most serious consequences for our country. It is a violation of the Constitution, a violation of the law and abuse of certain state services (I mean, above all, police, prosecutors, security services) for daily political purposes, to deal with political opponents. We've been telling you, and we're still saying that the mess that took place at the SRS rally was pre-planned, that there were at least two groups, which were even brought by police buses. We believe that one part of the police staff, the command staff, had information about it and that, according to that information, it was working on the rally itself, which can be seen from the footage that we prepared based on the videos of televisions that recorded the complete event, practically from the beginning to the end. In order to strengthen these arguments, I have given a DVD to the head of the DS parliamentary group, trusting in what Mrs. Hope Kolundji said about this speaker -- that they too aim to get to the truth, to establish that truth. I calculated, when she looked at this recorded material, that she too would insist that we get the report, so that the Serbian parliament would be free of the burden and the problems we have to solve. We simply can't bury it under the carpet or in any other way, but we have to get all the facts and get information on who's responsible. Unfortunately, the Home Secretary is already starting to say something else on B92 this morning, which brings us to the idea that you're using old practice by counting on time, counting on it to be forgotten, to the logic of the final act, that some other problems will lead us out of the way to find out everything we've been looking for. This morning he's talking about that, based on the information he's got so far, he's got some other responsibilities, etc., which we're not going to go into or speculate on. All you're asking here is to say who's responsible, and whoever's responsible, in accordance with the law, to file accounts. It's not the Home Secretary's job. The interior minister should allow the police to come to all the facts and that if there are elements that speak of the law being misused, these facts will be handed over to the prosecution, and the prosecution will continue to process all of this, and then we will see how it will end. But if the interior minister engages in political evaluations and he estimates whether or not he has, that is, they have talked to the family, so as Ranko Panic behaves or not, it is now making us seriously doubt whether you sincerely want to get into this problem and solve it. I'd like to inform you that today we're going to be working on the agenda because the Home Secretary called me and said he only has very little time left. I asked him how long it was, and he says, by the end of the week. It can't. We've given the Minister a solid deadline and I think he'll act in accordance with that deal. I explained to the Minister that he shouldn't send a report to the Defence and Security Committee, because the Committee didn't even ask for that information. Correction works, I didn't want to schedule a committee session just because of the report, or because of the information provided by the interior minister. We don't think that would be correct. If he has already promised to give a report, why unnecessarily harass the messengers and why does he create tension about it? So, without any problems, we gave the opportunity to access the data and to present these data to the Serbian Parliament. Personally, I believe that it is the interest of all MPs and that it is much greater interest for you in the ruling coalition than opposition parties, because you are the only correct and accurate report, in which you will not hide a single fact, you are going through a path that would allow us to solve the problems we face both in the near past and in the near past, and that finally this state and the citizens of Serbia will get a parliament to which, to the greatest extent, I do not always say, MPs will discuss and do what they should do, and that is to discuss the proposals of the law – the position to defend, the opposition to attack and to make arguments for or against. That will allow Serbia to move forward at least a little bit. It's in your hands, and it's up to you to decide. Don't blame anyone after this, turn to yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2122	Thank you. It is obvious that the requested report is coming to an end and that MPs will soon have it, as will the public. He has the word Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I am taking the opportunity to inform you that Veroljub Arsic will represent the SRS at this point in the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2123	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, I have reported in accordance with Article 83. Rules of Procedure and, of course, in accordance with Article 100. Madam President, article 83 obliges you to put only those proposals drawn up in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on which Parliament is working, while the previous position of Article 100 says you are obliged to offer an explanation as president after advertising of the Rules of Procedure. During the last working day of the previous week, we debated all day in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, pointing to the facts proposed by the government, the law on ratification of the energy agreement with the Russian Federation, very much compromise. We have not received any adequate response from you, and therefore we will ask the National Assembly to declare all the advertising violations of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote. At the same time, we will launch a procedure before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the laws passed by the government to parliament. I would therefore ask you, as President of Parliament, to take into account the coherence of one initiative and another. We ask that it be done by emergency procedure so the MPs know what they're actually voting on. I don't think I'm wasting my time and I repeat once again that everything we've said is a scandalous enough fact that only after the discussion in Parliament has been presented to the public is an assessment of the value of NIS, and they are completely defeating those aspects of the ratification law that we've talked about so many times. We point to a violation of the Privatization Act. At the same time, we point to discrimination against our citizens. Here in parliament, we have repeatedly held a debate on the abolition of VAT on baby food and equipment, on clothes, and there was no money for it, and VAT remained as a tax. We asked for tax cuts on textbooks, and we asked for tax cuts. Each time we have been offered as an explanation that there is a difficult material situation and that there are no conditions for such a thing. In the ratification law, we release the Russian partner of value added tax to the full cost of the job that we and they are entering. I think it's discrimination against our citizens. On those two grounds, we will ask that the Constitutional Court respond. As President of Parliament, we expect you to take account and, of course, in communication with the Constitutional Court to ensure that the institution reacts as quickly as possible so that the Assembly can make a valid statement in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2124	Thank you. Regarding the advertising of the Rules of Procedure, the diapazon of the asked questions, which are essentially asked questions rather than the advertising of the Rules of Procedure, is so wide that indeed one person, regardless of competence, cannot answer. Since there have been a lot of questions related to the Privatisation Act, for the NIS assessment, all these issues have been forwarded to the competent ministries and authorities. You'll get them the way it's common. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2125	Madam President, at best, we cannot be satisfied with your answer. Here were representatives of the government, authorised representatives, Deputy Prime Minister Djelic, Secretary-General Skundric, and we have been asking them questions all day and we have not received an adequate answer to any of these questions. We can't go into correspondence with the departments of power right now. The government is obliged to send here as representatives of the persons who can answer the questions of the MPs and thus influence the course of the debate. Given that we have lost no answer, it is totally unacceptable for us to now wait for a correspondence with the respective ministries in the government and before that parliament votes. That is why we will ask for Parliament to declare this in the voting day. So we ask you to put all our remarks on the Rules of Procedure to be voted upon so that the Assembly can make a very clear position on those issues that we could not get an answer from the government's competent representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2126	Thank you. It will be put to a vote in the voting day. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2127	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are 11 draft laws today to confirm different financial agreements with international financial organisations. First, you have five proposals for a law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and one proposal for a law confirming a grant agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The core of these financial contracts are the following projects: a project to improve energy efficiency that involves a more economical type of heating and transition to cleaner environmental fuels in specific sectors, health sector, education sector and social protection sector. The next project is a loan for the development of Bora. As you know, relying on mining alone has created a number of environmental and social problems. The project envisions the recovery of environmental risks and fostering private sector development in order to increase employment. The next loan is a loan for agricultural reform in transition, assuming an improvement in agricultural production and management of the Old Mountain. A transport reconstruction loan puts the means for the reconstruction of traffic to be used and made available to the Public Enterprise "The Roads". The project aims to reconstruct 113km of primary and secondary road network, 7 directions of the main road network, plus current and winter maintenance. Finally, a loan for the rehabilitation of the irrigation and disposal system; since about 200,000 hectares of agricultural land are threatened by floods and about 5,000 occurrences of different slides, this project is practically related to flood protection against floods on the Danube, Sava, Tisi, Tamisa and Moravi. The value of the projects mentioned is 126.7m euros. Otherwise, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has general conditions, standard conditions for loans and these standard conditions depend primarily on the level of country development, i.e. social product per capita. When it comes to a country like Serbia, which belongs to the upper group of medium-developed countries, these conditions are as standard as for any other country belonging to the group. So it's about an interest rate equal to a six-month libor, plus a fixed margin; the access fee is reduced from 1% to 0.25%; there's no employment costs that used to be 0.75%. The duration of the loan is 17 years, five years is the period of rest and 12 years of payment. Dear MPs, you are also facing two draft laws confirming a financing agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Development Association. We need to know that the Republic of Serbia no longer has the conditions to withdraw loans from the International Development Association. The projects aim to fund the energy efficiency project and finance the regional development of Bora. By the way, these loans are also standard loans, they're unambiguous. There are service costs on the withdrawn funds of 0.75%, no access fee. Employment costs are currently 0.1%. The duration of the loan is 20 years, 10 years of rest. The project is worth, all projects monitored, two projects in question, $20m or 13.7m euros. Finally, you are facing today two draft laws confirming a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and one draft law confirming a financial contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. The purpose of these funds is to reconstruct the clinical centres of Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis and Novi Sad. The aim is to improve the provision of tertiary services in the field of healthcare. This project covers the construction and equipment of new buildings within the Clinical Centre, as well as the renovation and equipment of existing buildings. The next project is the rehabilitation of roads and 100 bridges, as well as rehabilitation and reconstruction of "Gazale". As in previous cases, there are standard terms of borrowing of the European Investment Bank. Therefore, there is a possibility that we can choose between a fixed and variable interest rate of six months and the range established by the European Investment Bank; there is no cost of engagement, no access fee, the return period is from 20 to 25 years and a five-year standstill period. The value of projects with the European Investment Bank is 146m euros. The total value of all these 11 projects is 286.5m euros. All these projects, honourable MPs, await your ratification. I just wanted to inform you that the primary objective of borrowing the Republic of Serbia is to provide the necessary resources, with the lowest medium and long-term financing costs or minimise the risk. The current situation of the Republic of Serbia is seen as long-term sustainability. The state of public debt is 8.6 billion euros, which is 25.3% of gross domestic product. The state of external public debt is 5.3 billion euros. I would like to remind you that the laws on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2006, 2007 and 2008 have practically implicated these loans. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2128	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The Finance Committee, the Legislative Committee, Mrs Branka Ljiljak or Vlatko Ratkovic? No, I don't. ) Let me inform you that Mr. Jorgenka Tabakovic's MP has issued an opinion at the meeting of the Finance Committee, and since she is not present at the meeting of the Black Sea Initiative, does anyone perhaps want to use this right to explain her opinion? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2129	The Honorable Presidency, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, has reached the 3rd point of the agenda. In front of us, 11 proposals for a bill to confirm different contracts and agreements signed by the previous government of the Republic of Serbia mainly in June and July 2007, means about a year ago. The agreements and agreements were signed with three different international financial organisations: six contracts with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, three contracts with the European Investment Bank and two contracts were signed by the then government with the International Development Association. I've collected that, if I'm wrong, there's a minister to correct me, but I think when these contracts and agreements are ratified, they'll be able to withdraw around 286m euros. The five draft laws refer to the confirmation of the loan agreement, the two draft laws are on the confirmation of the guarantee contract, the two draft laws are on the confirmation of the financing agreement; there is one proposal for a law on the confirmation of the grant agreement and one proposal for a law on the confirmation of the financial contract. So, when the National Assembly confirms these contracts, funds for project financing for the development and reconstruction of road infrastructure and traffic will be used. For example, the transport reconstruction project in Serbia will contribute to further improving road infrastructure, as well as improving the mechanisms for ongoing and winter maintenance. Or, a contract signed with the European Investment Bank for the Rehabilitation of the "Gazela" Bridge in Belgrade, a loan the government guarantees of 33m euros, for the purpose of helping the Public Enterprise "Roads of Serbia" and the city of Belgrade implement a bridge recovery programme, including reconstruction and improvement of access roads. There are several projects in the area of agriculture. For example, a project bearing the name of agricultural reform in transition and a project to rehabilitate and rehabilitate the deforestation and irrigation system. The projects will be implemented through loans and donations, aimed at improving agriculture and rural areas through additional financing, trade liberalisation and modernisation of technology through concrete measures. Two agreements on the financing of the "regional development of Bora" project, aimed at revitalising the Bora County and addressing inherited environmental and social problems, should also be mentioned. The economic development of the region, where 150,000 citizens live and where there is a very high unemployment rate, should be encouraged. A financial contract is important between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for the project Clinical Centres, which will be implemented by the Ministry of Health. The project includes the modernisation of four clinical centres in Serbia, including Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis. If the project is successfully implemented, it will contribute to better healthcare for Serbian citizens. So, the previous government, led by Vojislav Kostunica, and how it knew that it recognized the interests and priorities of Serbian citizens, and all parts of Serbia. However, speaking of this, I must say that I am expressing concern and fear that in the current government, which is headed by Mr Cvetkovic, there is no power, there is no capacity in certain ministries that these projects are successfully and realised. So what the previous government has done through the ministries of good projects, which has managed to provide successful and quality loans and loans, is only the first and second steps, and realisation falls under the government's obligation. Again, I'm afraid there is no capacity for these projects to be successfully realized. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2130	Thank you. The word is by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, on behalf of the Liberal Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2131	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will vote for ratification of these laws. We're sorry it didn't happen much sooner. Too much time lost, more than a year. We know the circumstances of the congregation. Let's believe those who get this money will know what to do with it. What we need in this discussion is an assessment of the Ministry of Finance or the Government, the competent resolution ministries. What will Serbia get with that 280 million? Will the way our health system is organised in order for the state to be able to solve these problems be changed in addition to these restored clinical centres? Is there going to be an analysis in the agrarian area, so to say, if you invest 100 million, 150 million, 50 million, what's the benefit in fact? I think that's how we have to start talking in parliament, because so far the general rule has been that borrowing is a bad job. Every serious business relies on credit arrangements. This does not mean derogating our country or some begging, as is often described. We think this is a good business move, we'd just like to get an assessment of what a concrete benefit it is for our society from all this. If it can't be shown materially through investments in the reconstruction of clinical centres, let's see what happens to the agrarian, if there's an estimate of what happens after the restored infrastructure. I think that kind of thinking is needed not only by Parliament, but also by society as a whole. With one such explanation, there would be even less skepticism that follows the debate on this agenda point. I repeat, we'll vote yes and we're sorry it couldn't have happened sooner.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2132	Thank you. The word has Mr Velimir Ilic on behalf of New Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2133	Dear People's MPs, I am extremely pleased that today finally, almost a year later, the ratification of these agreements, which are extremely important for Serbia, came on the agenda. These are projects done by the previous government, applied. I am sorry that it has been so long that these projects are being implemented in the Serbian parliament, that ratification is being done. These are projects that are extremely important for Serbia. Not to mention the Gazela Bridge, which is one of the most endangered facilities in Serbia and which technically can no longer receive traffic, and is in extremely poor condition. The city of Belgrade, as part of the project, will try to transfer traffic to a bypass that is being built so that the "Gazala" bridge can enter into reconstruction. I am pleased that there is also a part of the funds that will speed up the work on "Gazela", but I note one thing – that the tour around Belgrade, which is made from the Ibar highway to the Ostružnica highway and that it is necessary to immediately enter the building of a full profile of the highway, because it is technically impossible to reduce this kind of traffic from the highway to the peninsula and thus move towards the bridge in Ostružnica and the highway to Belgrade and Zagreb. The papers need to be forced. I'm sorry there's a story going on these days that October 1st is going to be released this section of the bypass. It's technically impossible; if it's released by the end of the year, it'll be great. Therefore, these projects should have been ratified long ago. I begged former President Dulic to put them on the agenda, there was no time. But it's extremely important to do it now, although the big problem is that the construction season is over. The construction season goes by in a month or two, we're gonna have rain, fall, winter, and we're gonna have a hard time getting in... Here is an extremely important project, which is the reconstruction of the Kokin Brod - Nova Varosh road. We've made Bor's head over Zlatibor, and this is the sequel, to complete that part of the road to Montenegro. Here are the reconstruction projects of bridges that are extremely important for Serbia. Not to say that in agriculture, too, that's extremely significant. Of course, and in environmental science, especially as far as Bor's issues are concerned. There is a complete threat to the environment and I will be pleased to see this issue resolved through these means, although this is a small part of the funds to make this complete project more than 150,000 people living in the Borski District. Therefore, New Serbia and I will personally support this ratification with all our heart. We want these projects to be implemented as soon as possible, and the representatives of the government and the resolution ministries ask that these good projects be implemented as quickly as possible and that they finish the work in record time, because it has been extremely long to come to the realization of these projects. It is important that it never happens that this long waits for ratification for projects that are very important for Serbia. So I would ask the current Parliament president to always give priority to projects that are on ratification, to put on the urgent agenda, to speed up the process, not to wait a year for ratification, and one year before that, we wait for the banks to approve, their boards, to realize these projects that mean life for Serbia. There's gonna be a lot of projects, and that's why I'd like the solution to go by the most urgent procedure. I hope that both the position and the opposition will retain good projects and that they will pass the ratification process as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2134	The word is by Mr Milan Nikolic, the Socialist Party of Serbia - Unique Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2135	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister and Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have, as far as I have managed to count, about 11 draft laws on the validation of loan agreements, guarantees, additional funding, donations and financial contracts. To say right now, today is 8 September 2008, and we are discussing the verifications signed by the Ministry of Finance, and that is: one agreement on 8 December 2006, one agreement on 16 July 2007 and the other 27 July 2007. So, ten agreements we verify after a year and a few days, with faith, given the justification of such borrowing, that we will vote these agreements, but we have an agreement that we confirm almost two years later. This is about agreements with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank and the International Development Association, which are therefore important financial institutions that we will have to address many more times, because we are medium-developed, I would say poor, a country, inevitably referred to these institutions in order to provide what kind of development. It is loans, loans and donations of nearly 300m euros, which is not a small sum for our opportunities and great needs. Of course, whatever the reason is, it is an inadmissible relationship and behavior and damage to our country when this long verification process is so important, I would say favourable, loans to Serbia. Certainly, the lender, who I consider to be eligible under a lot of favourable conditions, gets the impression that we are not interested in these means and that their relationship with us in the next talks will certainly be something different. It's about the resources in the world, but under these conditions, unfortunately, there is no, and we cry out for such means. With no intention of getting into the details, I just want to comment on some of the loans. The loan agreement for additional financing of the road reconstruction project between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development provides for funding of 36,800,000 euros to improve road infrastructure and improve road maintenance, namely the reconstruction of 113km of roads in Serbia, the maintenance of 660km of major and 517km of regional roads, the improvement of traffic safety measures and the provision of technical assistance for project implementation and capacity building. It's a 17-year-old loan with a five-year grace period on relatively favourable terms. These funds will at least partially mitigate the major problem of road maintenance, where due to lack of resources, the road network is poorly maintained and seriously endangers traffic and leads to a drastic cost increase during the final reconstruction of these roads. Some of the data I have is that the funds we collect based on tolls aren't enough to maintain the roads we now have. I understand that this government is making an effort to end Corridor 10 entirely when it comes to the highway and the good part when it comes to railing, which depends on the country's overall development, but the fact that the already-existing part of the highway is looking for huge funds to resuscitate safe highways. We are witnessing that we are taking one of the infamous first places in the number of car accidents and victims, and it is inevitable that these funds will be used as soon as possible. I would say that it is inevitable and resuscitating existing roads and very fast construction or completion of Corridor 10 so that under more favourable conditions we can ensure the use of Corridor 10, because it threatens us with a very serious danger – it is almost near the end of the corridor through Bulgaria and Romania, which can drag away a good part of the traffic that is now going to Corridor 10. When it comes to the financing contract for the "Gazela" bridge, signed, amounting to 33m euros, between the European Investment Bank and the JP "The Ways of Serbia", and the government has given me a guarantee, it seems to me that the last moment is that such an important traffic for Belgrade but also for Serbia is being resolved and access roads are being provided. Regardless of the tour project and the construction plan for several more bridges, the importance of "Gazale" is very large because it connects two major cities, old and New Belgrade; it is one of the very important joints in Corridor 10, but threatens to devastate, unless emergency intervention is made, to cause disaster. And in this case, the financing contract provides for a 20-year period of credit with a five-year start-up period, which we also consider favourable conditions, although the text of the guarantee does not show what interest costs are. The proposal for a law confirming the guarantee treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank provides money of 33,000,000 euros to rehabilitate about 100 bridges on the main and regional roads in Serbia. The signing of the guarantee employs additional funds from the JP "Serb Roads", which means that around 100 bridges will be spent on rehabilitation of 66,000,000 euros. In view of the fact that almost all the bridges in South Morava are almost unusable due to the wild exploitation of sand, some are closed and not used, there are opportunities to reduce huge costs and problems and there is too much comment on the necessity of investment in the recovery of such bridges. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in addition to the bridge recovery planning, a comprehensive action by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its organs is necessary to stop the wild exploitation of sand in all rivers, because it is not just damage, for example, the famous cases of the Bujanovo Bridge, the war bridge, etc., where every third year repairs the bridge; environmental disharmonisation is being carried out, wells remain waterless, the sand continues to collapse the quality of the built bridge. This will likely run indefinitely if the inspection services, as well as other services in whose domain this part of the problem is, fully address the issue of bridge protection. The proposal for a law confirming the guarantee treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank provides money of 33,000,000 euros to rehabilitate other parts of the traffic. The draft law confirming the Agreement on additional financing of the energy efficiency project between the Republic of Serbia and the International Development Association offers the possibility of continuing investment and improving heating in the health, education, social protection sectors, where we remain very poor. The International Development Association's funds of 6.6 million special draw rights provide the possibility of additional credit from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for an additional 133,000 euros to build a more economic, quality, more efficient and environmentally cleaner heating system in hospitals, schools and many social institutions. The agreement provides for correct conditions, in terms of the duration of the 17-year loan, a five-year grace period and one per cent access interest. The loan agreement for additional financing of the rehabilitation project of the irrigation and disposal system signed between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on 27 July 2007 envisions the allocation of 36,800,000 euros. It is the usual terms of the loan as well as the other loans and loans which are subject to today's debate, with a 17-year loan repayment period and a five-year grace period. However, there remains a dilemma, at least with our MPs, whether the discussion of the verification of this loan agreement and the confirmation of the loan law in the Assembly is relevant, if Article 4. The loan agreement says the deadline for entry into force is 90 days from the date of signature, not commenting on the verification. I remind you again that the agreement was signed on 27. Seven. In 2007, it's September 8th. Such an observation can be made for almost all loan agreements which are subject to today's debate. Certainly, the purpose and purpose of the loan is very important, because the funds will be spent on building the embankment and coast to protect against floods from which Serbia suffers huge damage each year in the coastal river areas of the Danube, Sava, Tamis, Morava, Tisa and many other smaller rivers. There are also immeasurable damages to many active rinks that are not being recovered, although last year we passed the Slipboard Resuscitation Act. The enormous task of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to build a irrigation system, because if we want to take advantage of agriculture and achieve competitive agricultural production we need to invest serious resources in the irrigation system. The loan agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 12,500,000 euros, which was also signed in July 2007, concerns the improvement of agricultural activities in rural areas, with the aim of increasing the competitive capacity of our economy and villages, as well as to ensure the preservation of the Stara Planina eco-system. A grant agreement from the Global Fund for Environmental Protection (A project to reform agriculture in transition) between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was also signed on July 27th 2007 and regulated the allocation of $4.5m in funds, but the allocation of funds was conditioned by ratification of the Agreement. The purpose of these funds under certain conditions is the same as in the case of a loan agreement for the improvement of the rural agricultural system and raising the level of knowledge on the application of agrotechnical measures. The agreement on the financing of the Bor Regional Development Project between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the International Association for Development and the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development provides for the allocation of 24.300,000 euros and about $10m in order to encourage the development of the pine region, which is in very difficult economic conditions as a result of the difficult situation in the Bor and Majdanpek mining bases, as well as the recovery of the ecological situation which is seriously at stake due to mine gaps. These funds should help address accumulated social problems and employment problems in the Borski District. Otherwise, the funds allocated in these loans shall be returned within 20 years, with a period of 10 years and with relatively favourable costs of service and engagement costs. The financial agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for the Project Clinical Centres/A regulates investment in modernisation, construction and expansion of hospitals in Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac and Novi Sad as part of the total funds needed for this investment, thus granting an agreement of 80,000,000 euros to provide additional funds and resources from other sources in the coming period. It's also a 25-year favourable loan with a five-year start-up period, counting payments per tranche. Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SPS-JS Group in the voting day will support the verification of these agreements, because we consider it to be the means that we need and that are obtained under favourable conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2136	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic, the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2137	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are finally facing these famous guarantees that this assembly is about to hand over, that is, to approve of the withdrawal of various loans. Often in the election campaign, and in the period since the start of this session, you mentioned that the SRS is obstructing the work of the Assembly, so for projects of vital importance for the Republic of Serbia we cannot get the most favourable loans Serbia can get, more favourable than any other country in the world, because the SRS is making obstruction. Now the time has come, when this point finally comes to the agenda, to really set up some things the way they are. I would also ask ministers in the government not to do politics this way, but to deal with politics in a professional way, because they are ministers. MPs are part of the legislative authority and they have the right to say a lot. But the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and ministers cannot and do not have the right to comment on what the opposition is doing in the Serbian parliament, nor does the president of the assembly. Let's get back to the agenda. First, one of my colleagues said that Serbia, or the Public Enterprise, "The Ways of Serbia" cannot maintain the highway from those funds that were acquired by toll and that is not enough. I don't know if the guy running the highway knows how to do his job, or if someone here is making fools of us. Our toll is from three to four times more expensive, per mile than it was anywhere in Europe. If you have a smaller number of vehicles on the highway, we can discuss it, but how is such a small number of vehicles, and it's so good since you rule? Now I would like to ask why more foreign citizens do not go through Serbia, as was the 1980s. Someone's gonna say it's a road infrastructure. When it comes to these transit routes, and it's not so bad, that would be why these vehicles don't pass. Maybe the problem is just in the toll, maybe it's too high, maybe it's a problem with customs and crossing the border, because wherever you go, there are no lines at the border crossings, except when you get close to Serbia. How much longer are you going to play that whiskey, those cigars and those wonders, that it's happening at the border? Then it's all someone else's fault, and these are the consequences of your incompetence, and we come to adventures like these. No one said, not even the minister, how much interest will the Republic of Serbia pay on these loans. They said some of the credits were unambiguous. I'll try to show you a little later what it looks like when it comes to interest-free loans and how favourable these loans are. I'd ask the minister -- when are we going to get a report on the withdrawn funds that any government has already made, and you rule more or less, through various mutations, here, for eight years now, have been withdrawn? I want to know what the cost of these withdrawn funds is and what the interest we pay on those funds. When can we get an estimate of the cost-effectiveness of such projects, the justification of such projects and these loans, what are the expected effects of the loans we have raised, and what have the effects of spending these funds? One more thing, don't try to accuse the SRS of these loans. I divided this discussion into two parts, as an authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party. In that second part, we'll read how much you're costing the state on approved loans, the amount of money withdrawn, and how much on undrawn funds. Which means, as much as you're boasting about these projects, loans, loans, I can say that you've accessed all of this very unseriously, that you don't even have the proper technical documentation to make most of these loans real. Then we'll pay interest on undrawn funds. Here, we can start in some order when it comes to these loans. Let's read, that Serbian citizens know what obligations you make to the Republic of Serbia, the budget, in the end of the year. For example, a loan from the European Investment Bank to rehabilitate roads and bridges B-2. So the bank is not obliged to submit evidence that it has taken any measures against the borrower and has no obligation to activate any instrument of security offered by the borrower or any third party prior to the entry into force of this contract. This means that the bank will be able to ask for money from the Republic of Serbia's budget and that we will have to pay it back, regardless of whether the borrower was returning it regularly or not. We won't even have the right to ask. What does it look like and whose jurisdiction is one of these? This contract falls within the jurisdiction of the law of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, and the decision of this court is final. Couldn't you have found a more serious way of jurisdiction of the courts? Here's what a loan costs. For each tranche there will be an option of choice, or a tranche with a fixed interest rate or a tranche with a fluctuating interest rate with a fixed range. Why don't you say what a fluctuating interest rate is, why don't you say it's a sliding interest rate that one who approves this loan can change according to its estimates, according to its needs and its justification? The fixed interest rate shall mean the annual interest rate established by the bank according to the applicable principles, which shall occasionally be determined by the administrative boards of the euro loan bank and by the conditions of payment of the principal and interest payment. This is what I asked at the beginning of my debate – how much are we going to pay this interest on these withdrawn funds? The fluctuating interest rate with a fixed range shall mean an annual interest rate equal to the eurobore, plus or minus the range established by the bank for each of the following reference periods. So, to translate into plain Serbian, the base will be eurybor, the bank will determine that range, or you like to say the unscathed loan, and then in another part you can see it's the margin of the bank. What's a bank margin if it's not interest? So, all those who praise these loans will place the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia before the obligation to repay loans, and we do not know what interest is on these loans and how much such a single loan will ultimately cost citizens. Here's the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development when it comes to, I say, road infrastructure, so here's the deal, but here's what it looks like when it comes to undrawn funds: the cost of borrowing paid by the borrower is 3/4 per cent per cent per year on an undrawn part of the loan, with the bank being able to give up this right occasionally. The access fee paid is equal to one percentage of the amount of the loan, with the bank being able to give up occasionally. This is all nice when you read in that first part, however, it is said – the interest rate for the six-month currency loan increased by a fixed margin. Now, let the Minister of State come out and explain to the MPs and the citizens of Serbia what a margin is, rather than interest. Don't lie to Serbian citizens anymore. In my second presentation, I will talk about what happened to the loans and guarantees that have already been granted, how much they cost now and how serious you are in the implementation of these projects, because in the final account of the 2007 budget, it is nice to see how seriously you have come to these projects and how much Serbian citizens pay for your inadequacy and ineffectiveness.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2138	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Nada Kolundzija, head of the Parliament Club for European Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2139	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished Madam Minister, respected MPs, the MEP Group for European Serbia will vote in favour of the laws ratified by these financial arrangements both because of the huge public interest and because of many, I say, pressures the public to ratify these arrangements as soon as possible. I don't think there's any need to specifically talk about their importance and the importance of all those projects that will be realised by these means. What I'm saying is, what I'm saying is that all these laws were on the agenda in March of the month. So it is not true that there was no understanding of the parliamentary majority at the time, it seems that some have forgotten or deliberately different interpretations, that these laws are on the agenda, but the former, now former, prime minister felt that it was more important to return the mandate to the people, even though we have asked to complete this session, to ratify these international arrangements, and then whoever it is he wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2140	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint single search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, submitted by SRS, ZES, DSS - Vojislav Kostunica and SPS - JS. The word has Miletic Mihajlovic, a parliamentary group of SPS - JS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2141	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we are facing important issues that are in the role of adopting an agreement, namely the conclusion and ratification of the guarantee laws, the loans, the borrowing of international financial institutions, and in order to address the problems that are relevant to the life and work of our citizens. The MPs' club and MPs' SPS and JS will vote to ratify these agreements. So the question is whether we need these loans, donations, this funding of significant projects. The sure answer is that we need them, regardless of the reservations regarding some of the conditions under which they are signed and which will bind us in the next period. Let's start with the fact that every single person in Serbia, whether a worker, a peasant, a citizen, always has a desire to solve some important issues that depend on the quality of his life, which depends on his existence. Most of these citizens benefit from the possibility, if there is, to borrow a particular loan, a certain loan, to round up a project as soon as possible, whether it is a house, whether it is an investment in production, purchase of machinery, etc. Such investments that contribute to the quality of life and work certainly represent joy for man and motivation to look ahead, with the hope that tomorrow they will live better, that they will earn and exist on a higher level. So our MPs and I understand the borrowing and taking of these loans and the acceptance of certain donations that will contribute to the improvement in Serbia. Today in Serbia, we are faced with the devastation of various areas and in an ecological way. We also have the devastation or devastation of traffic, telecommunications, energy infrastructure, etc. We have unregulated water streams that almost every year threaten us with swimming and rarely when it happens that maybe over 200,000 hectares will not be flooded, of which we have enormous damage. Not to talk about slides at thousands of acres, and also parts of the infrastructure are affected by this accident. Also, Serbia, we should well imagine, is affected by the process of depopulation of many areas that are, above all, economically underdeveloped, and in some areas, such as the Borski District, there has been a devastion of the healthy environment. An area such as the Borski District, in which about 150,000 inhabitants live, faces major problems that leave traces on the economic and social agenda. Of course, one such area needs help. Not to mention the need for rehabilitation, or reconstruction of many routes. Transport infrastructure is a fundamental assumption for any normal life, for any normal work or development in the future and it is a necessary starting point for further economic, social and cultural progress of all parts of our country. When it comes to donations and loans under the Project on Agricultural Reform in Transition, it is very important that rural areas provide conditions for the development and improvement of agricultural production, and those that will produce, above all, healthy, ecological food, for which there is a need not only within Serbia, but also beyond the borders of our country. I think that one such resource and such direction of investment in production provides great prospects for exports and for improving such areas. Rural areas certainly need the help of the state. These areas as a dry sponge require State resources and investment. If we're going through these remote places, we may even wonder where our people live. They certainly deserve praise, but there's nothing to be commended for. Such people really need help. Of course, these loans or these donations, when it comes to this project, it's something really minimal. I think the need for Serbia to be in debt to an even greater extent, in order to invest in rural areas, or in some other way, from its means, must pay attention to what life and work conditions are, as well as the possibility of these areas improving to return to our country multiple times. When it comes to what it is to investing in energy efficiency, then we are certainly at the beginning of Europe and the world by what our standards are, well, I would say, and the way of life. It certainly needs to be improved in this respect. It is certainly commendable to begin with what is the education sector, the social protection sector, the health sector. That, those objects where we have users, where we work, etc. It really needs to be improved and brought to a standard that is appropriate today in the world and Europe. The second question arises... I'm not going to talk about all these loans and loans, that's where "Gazala" and so on. So it's clear that it's urgent that measures should be taken to resuscitate such a large facility. It's not just that... Please, Mr. Todorovic, don't throw it away. You are the head of the parliamentary group and you should be an example of conduct here in parliament and don't disturb me. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I am still not the head of the parliamentary group.) I'm well informed. (President: Please allow Mr. Mihajlovic to complete his presentation. () Be assured that I will never throw it to you, and that I will honor your word here. Thank you. We can ask another question – why are we slowly formalising the decision-making procedure on these issues? We heard here, first of all, from Madam Minister and from MPs that when it comes to some loans, some agreements and others to signing more than a year ago, it was even much longer. I think that in this we show a great slowness both when agreeing and agreeing on these important issues we often stumble into what are party interests. This is happening all the way inside the government, which turned out in the last term. Then the problems arise here in the Assembly, when it comes down from the government, and then we find some other problems. We simply tend to produce some political crises that automatically put these issues that are relevant to life and the work of citizens in a different way. Otherwise, there are too many administrations in Serbia, too much bureaucracy, and slowness and trombones. This characterizes us and this exists not only in technology and decision-making in state bodies, but also in local self-government authorities. I think that by our decision, especially on important issues, we should give an example of a different relationship and responsibility, and then normatively to regulate, but also to travel one way of doing things more effectively and at lower levels. We have heard, for example, the regret of the head of the New Serbia parliamentary group for this slowness, disenfranchisement, and I certainly believe that this is so, but we all have to give an example in a positive way in a different way and in a sense of responsibility to these issues, but, for God's sakes, we must make a significant contribution to the regulation of all procedures and overall procedures regarding all relevant issues, low-level paperwork. In order to obtain a building permit in the municipality today, there is indeed a painful road ahead for an individual who is to obtain appropriate paper. I'm sure it's our fault, too. Of course, this leaves the possibility of corruption and the illegal conduct of those responsible persons who work in the right place. But we as the National Assembly and as MPs should go in that direction so that such issues in the chain of solving all these things are resolved differently. Of course, if we want to make progress in Serbia, we have to use these loans and loans, these kinds of funding, regardless of what may be in some paragraphs there are appropriate disadvantages. Of course, any credit to be taken today, whether taken by an individual or by a state, it also implies a certain interest. The creditor has his motives for giving it, but certainly the international community, above all, is interested in investing in our territory, or in our country. Of course, giving this kind of assistance is made up of what is the international community's insistence, on the one hand, and on the other hand, Serbia, tomorrow, to be a member of the international community and these future integrations. One socially responsible state certainly cannot count on the regulation of its relations, on improving living and working conditions, on reaching a certain level in these areas, as it is already in the world, if it does not benefit these mechanisms. For these reasons, the SPS - JS will vote, and that is another step towards what is the reason we are voting for the SAA. Such an attitude and the reasons I have cited speak of the justification that the Socialist Party of Serbia has made such a coalition that has prospects for connecting with the world and, finally, to catch up with the international community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2142	Thank you. Another minute left for the Socialist Party of Serbia. There's a word from Miss Natasa Jovanovic, the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the question of ratification of these agreements totalling 420m euros we launched on... All right, Madam Minister, if I'm wrong, you'll deny me later. It may not be a collection, but the essence of the story is important. If the numbers aren't well collected, you'll say it's not, but it's probably a purely mathematical mistake, or it's not. I will talk about two concrete amounts, and if this is a sum, we will see; it is an important essence. During the election of Mirko Cvetkovic as prime minister, the day we discussed the composition of the new government and the new coalition, and later, before the session was interrupted before the kidnapping and delivery of Radovan Karadzic to The Hague tribunal, we launched... And that part of the public that supports the government and such an unreserved path into so-called European integration with a negative otter has, without delay, dropped the fire on the SRS parliamentary group that it is we who are slowing it down and that we do not want to ratify such important agreements, which mean for Serbia life. At that time, the key to the problem here was apostrophe of Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic in front of our parliamentary group and asked Mr. Cvetkovic for an answer, and she did not receive it, what is the validity of all these agreements when certain agreements were due to take effect, or to be ratified (when the 150-day deadline is calculated) in November of last year, in February of this year, and they are in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia almost half of September. So we're looking for the first answer to this key question because without it we can't know if this ratification, which you're going to do without the vote of the SRS, is valid, or if this is just a story to talk about some documents and agreements that practically have no validity. If they are to be valid, then we need to be explained this key question regarding the way it will be returned. What I will especially draw attention to is the Bora region. You have now assumed the role of finance minister, but since you have been greatly praised as a financial expert, it is impossible that you have not previously taken an interest in this area based on everything you have done, like any Serbian citizen. So, it's an area that's been pretty devastated because the exploitation of mine wealth in the area of the Mining-Toping Basern Bor lasts more than 100 years. This issue has been updated because of the model that we have heard will be applied to, and that is to find a strategic partner for Bor, after the failure of privatisation and the loss of valuable time for the whole area, for all miners, for all employees, for those to whom this life means. Mr Branislav Rankic, who was president of the Bor municipality, a Serbian radical, warned the government of the Republic of Serbia for two years. When the attempts of those tycoonics, as the entire privatisation was made, the sale of the mining and artillery base Bor, Mr. Rankic proposed that the state apply exactly that model, which is now almost certain because the Swiss "Glenkor" as one of the potential or most serious strategic partners, appeared. But what happened in that past, lost period? Since by his choice as president of the municipality you didn't want to hear the words of a reasonable man, first of all a man who is and how qualified for the business of a mining and cannon base because he himself is a mining engineer and he spent a part of his working century right there, you started by tricking and throwing dust into the eyes of the citizens of the area around Bora. You have well stated that 150,000 people have unresolved social status, that many of them are extremely difficult to live in and that it is absolutely (we also know that we who live in other parts of Serbia) of the country are neglected. It happened two years ago that the Republic of Serbia, at the time of the ministry of others before you (at the time of Mladjan Dinkic, then Cvetkovic was elected), concluded a contract with the World Bank. A certain Simon Gray, who is a representative of the World Bank in Belgrade, has, on several occasions, come to Bor by choice of Mr Rankic. Since that loan is in the amount of... This ratification refers to 24.3m euros, signed 27. Seven. In 2007, and that's why I'm asking you. It clearly states here that this agreement is valid, i.e. the deadline for entry into force is 150 days from the date of signing of this agreement, and the date for signing the agreement is July 27th last year, so I ask if the duration has expired? But to get back to that loan from the World Bank of 43 million dollars. Simon Gray has repeatedly come with experts from the World Bank to talk to Mr Rankic and RTB leadership about how to invest money from the loan that Serbia has already begun to repay, and the citizens of Bora, the whole area, have not seen a single $43m. They said that first of all, those funds that we had previously ratified... Who will remember that more, we are under DOS's control in full debt slavery, as well as any citizen of Serbia who has entered any of these banks, has two or three payment cards, who knows how many loans, refinance. The whole country lives like that. Then they showed up and asked Mr. Rankic what he thought, as president of the municipality, in which some million of those 43 should first be invested. He said that he was a serious man and, above all, as a man from that profession did a number of quality projects, primarily to clean up wastewater. Two-and-a-half years, he said, nothing before Bor arrived; two-and-a-half years since he was president of the municipality, the Serbian Radical, Bor got nothing, and that's five years in total. So that money is missing or used for other purposes. Citizens of Bora... The projects that needed that $43,000 to finance didn't come to Bor. They said it should go through a certain procedure. Well, we know that best. Any of the local self-governments to compete for any project through a business bank, of course one that co-operates with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is such that for a year or two you wait to get some funding, and this is a concrete arrangement with the World Bank and the money has not yet arrived. Not only are they skeptical, Mr. Rankic, who at the moment is not, but will again be the President of the Boring Municipality, be sure of that, because such manipulations and various structures, the defects of the councilor and the patching of most absolutely mean absolutely nothing on the long term, sooner or later everyone gets to collect what he did. In any case, it is very important that you know, Madam Minister, that he, as the former president of the municipality, and the citizens expect an answer for the 43 million. As far as this arrangement is concerned, it is here that the same projects that were to be done, such as the city collector, its recovery, or the arrangement, and everything that follows this environmental programme, and what the municipality itself has, because local self-government has done but no single dinar has been given for these purposes. What Mr. Rankic told me was that I especially needed to apostrophe in this exhibition (because I wanted to get concrete information from him for everything that was going on back two and a half years) is the fact that he actually saw and realized that it was a huge money laundering, or spending money. He assumes that half of that $43m was spent on various excursions, seminars, education, etc., atheists and such nonsense, and during that time the citizens got nothing. As a result, the question is raised openly and we openly suspect that these 24.3m euros will also go to that very purpose, intensibly, as it writes. The paper puts up with everything. You could have... I do not doubt the good intentions of those who have done this project, not from the lender, the borrower is the Republic of Serbia, but the question is who is authorized on behalf of the borrower not only to sign but also to take care of the spending of these funds. We have local self-government in all of Serbia... Here, there are Serbian radicals who are in power in municipalities and cities, where we are in the coalition and with the DSS, New Serbia, the SPS, we have found such a state that we cannot know and trace how loans and donations have been spent for eight years. Well, how come when in no municipality, even at a republican level, we don't have a final budget account? I mean, we got him, but he didn't get through control. Only a few months ago was formed the State Auditing Institution, and every municipality in Serbia was informed by the finance ministry that it is not obliged to hire an auditor. Now you see how these funds have been spent. This is best known by local tycoons across Serbia's cities, especially from the DS, G17, who have also used the possibility of the huge inflow of funds. Who knows how many hundreds or billions of euros have come to Serbia in such a way for the past eight years. Who traced it, and who could see how that money was spent? In addition to this very important issue of the pine region, where no... You remember then, as an expert, you were outside the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Dragutinovic, that the state had been strategically defined, I think by establishing the government in 2004, after the March 5th 2004 elections, to pay extreme attention to southern Serbia and to the regional development of the abandoned Bor. I am now interested in how much, outside of these loans, the state has given out of its own resources through transfer funds and through a special item in the budget that existed to help this extremely endangered area. As for the ratification of agreements concerning agriculture, of course our MP, Professor Zoran Masic, who is the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, will speak much more about it, but when you mention it (some of the colleagues, I think from the SPS, who support the ratification of these agreements), numerous slides and the fact that our crops have been killed on several occasions by storms and disasters that have hit Serbia, here, and that's the question I'm going to ask you. I ask that question to the third minister in a row: first I asked Dinkic, then Mr Cvetkovic, now you. I would ask you to notify -- what about the 156,000,000 dinars that the state of Serbia, the Republic government, the Ministry of Finance owes to the city of Kragujevac? On July 9, 2005, in an unremembered flood and a storm that happened... It was a really big city, there was a big storm, floods in Serbia; you remember southern Banat, you remember Jablani County, etc. When we traced the post-festum to where all the funds were spent and how the intervention state helped, we came to the conclusion that only the Ministry of Infrastructure, led by Velimir Ilic, directed the city of Kragujevac eight million dinars of assistance, and a comprehensive report made by the team began with the city's agronomist... Regardless of what the opposition in Kragujevac is, we are there, after these parties in power (and six-seven, as many as have gathered around this Stevanović), the single largest political party, with the largest number of committees, feel responsible for the citizens, especially those whose crops have been killed, to ask you why this money has not yet been paid, and I am absolutely sure that it has not been laid down at the expense of the town of Kragujevac. The amount is 156,000,000 dinars. In particular, it is a big question of resuscitation of the rink; some areas are higher, some are less affected. I can tell you specifically about local communities in the Kragujevac area, I know because I have visited each of these houses and households during the local elections campaign in April and May – not one single dinar for the rehabilitation of their housing facilities has yet to be obtained. When they are not in Kragujevac, they are not in other cities in Serbia. What's being asked as a question, I'm going to end up with, is the level of credit rate or interest on the return of all these loans and so far; as the state of Serbia has committed, given that we can hear, and that today is one of the breaking news, that the interest on housing loans has been increased by 10%. We are already at great risk as a state, we have three billion euros of this tranche now waiting for us in the fall, which we need to return, and we have no where, because the budget is mostly filled with those users who can pay such high taxes. So how are we going to get back, are those interest rates agreed, are they variable? Explain to us, Madam Minister, when I mentioned these issues, you said that the state wants to take care of each individual, and we see that it does not care, and therefore the SRS is really struggling hard against corruption and against crime and against such publicism that the government, starting with the authorities of the republican administration, through local self-government, where we are not involved in government, so tell us how the citizens will be provided with such harassing, from now on, these business banks that operate in our country. There's more of them. Here, I saw two new ones passing through the center of Kragujevac yesterday, and I don't want to make them commercials. There was one, so now it's the other, then the third. The citizens are in enormous debt. We've come to an extremely difficult situation. No job, no job opening. The pine is waiting. Here, you have seen, for two and a half years since Mr. Rankic proposed such strategic integration and resolving the problem. Where's the contract with the Fiat? Here, we're almost halfway through September of the month. Not only that, not just the accepted social program, which could have been much better, but what about those people... Come on, if the potential partners have said, if this contract is signed at all, we're not going to fire the workers, or those who were in the negotiations, who's going to use this offered program, they're going to leave, and what about those 15,000 that stayed on the street, who's going to come back? These are all issues that are being opened before you and this government, which I am absolutely convinced is that in all these waitings, and all this is on a long stick, what will give you the World Bank, what the IMF, what the EU, etc., does not care about the life of an ordinary individual. Our resources are breaking up. We have a very difficult life, agriculture has been destroyed. I say again, and they'll talk later about how much everything that's needed for a farmer, how invaluable it is, how much our farmers get, too, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, our farmers, After all, the fact that the worse people have never lived, that the less money for the naked existence is enough for us to realize, that I will end up, that this is not how Serbia can move forward. It can, with direct investment in production, through employment, above all, young people and with the country's strategic commitment to help the Serb peasant. That way we as a state can expect some progress in the future, but this way, by borrowing and creating debts that will bring back generations that come after us, we can't expect anything well.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2144	The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Today's work day will have a break from 15.00 to 16.00 hours, given that we started working at 12.00 hours, not at 10.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2145	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin to speak on the subject for a few seconds, I will dedicate myself to the presentation of the head of Parliament's group of Mrs Nada Kolundzhia. I've got two texts in my hand here on two draft laws I'm going to talk about. One carries a date on December 8, 2006, and the other carries a date on July 16th 2007. So, the fact is that we and previous National Assembly President Mr Oliver Dulic had problems with putting the dots on the agenda, and this is Mrs. Hope Kolundzija in a rather strange way, not to use another term, to comment. But as the words spoken publicly can neither be more sincere nor more honest than those who pronounce them, I will leave it on the conscience of Mrs. Nadia Kolundjia. Now I'd like to talk about the subject. So, I will talk about the draft law on the confirmation of a financial agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for the Project Clinical Centres and the agreement concerning the resolution of the "Gazala" bridge. So, as far as this first topic is concerned, Mrs Dragutinovic, with all due respect to you as a representative of the government, I don't think you're the happiest talker on this subject. I'll explain what's going on. I don't want you to think that the DSS is against these things, because these bill proposals were brought during the government of Vojislav Kostunica. But I think at least as far as this proposal for a law on the reconstruction of Serbia's clinical centres is concerned, therefore, it was four clinical-patient centres in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac that needed to have a representative of the government, someone who is from the Ministry of Health, because there are a number of questions here that I would ask, which would require a precise answer. When it comes to the amounts mentioned here, which I have no doubt, therefore, I am talking about technical description, first of all, of the Clinical and Hospital Centre in Belgrade, it is finally mentioned that the total number of beds in the Clinical Centre will be 2.525. So, who set it up? Is that the number or does the clinic center need more or less beds? What's the structure of those beds? Are those beds for surgical branches? Are those beds for the interstitial branches? It's another kind of bed. The same applies to other clinics. So who's the one who determines that strategy? This kind of strategy is determined by something called the pathology of the population, i.e. the citizens of Serbia. Did the Ministry of Health also determine the importance of pathology? If that's determined, I don't doubt, do we in the congregation have a signal about it? Do we know where this strategy is going? The text of this Agreement also refers to a medical waste management project, which belongs to the category of very dangerous waste. Let's open the question if any of the MPs have seen that strategy, has anyone been dealing with this problem here in the National Assembly? I'm asking a question. What's going on with that dump in Vinci? What happens to medical waste not only from the Clinical Centre of Serbia, but from four clinical centres on the territory of the city of Belgrade and from a number of health institutions, and where does this waste end? Does anyone have control over that junk? At least I don't have any knowledge of it. There's a question of why I'm saying it. In one country, large quantities arrived in this country, measured even by tons of medicine, in a period of sanctions. But that well-meaning of our friends, expressed in the "Mercy Angel" action, was such that these drugs were in such a state that we didn't know what to do with them. For human use unusable, for elimination we have no facilities, no devices to destroy it. It was also about medical devices, it's X-ray machines; each of us will remember what the Higens principle means and what it means to have X-ray tubes whose deadline of use expired 10 or 15 years ago. In that period, we became a waste of a well-intentioned part of Europe, and we didn't know what to do, how to deal with that problem. It happened in Belgrade that medical waste ended, even parts of human organs, in containers for municipal garbage. It's a sad fact. So I'm talking about all these things and a system that obviously doesn't work and doesn't work the way it's supposed to work. That's why there was supposed to be one of the health department representatives here to answer some questions. So I have no objection to your presence, don't consider it personal, but this is a topic where someone from the Ministry of Health needs to answer some questions. After all, there is also talk about the purchase of certain equipment for the clinical-patient centres. So that's the question to be answered by the representatives of the health ministry. What kind of equipment is that? Is it buying new scanners or magnetic resonances or is it something else? So, when a system works that way and you don't have complete control over that system, and I'm going to tell you why – because this is the fourth term of the current minister, and we don't have a national health council to deal with this kind of problem, and I'm going to give you an answer to these questions, and we're going to see what's real, when the health insurance system doesn't work, and there's a story that we're doing what the whole world is doing, that most of the money and investment is going to go to the primary level of health care, and I'm going to remind you that it's a sum, by writing some Sundays, of over two billion euros that blend into that account; so these are the questions that the answers should be given to one of the representatives of the health ministry. We do not have those answers, but we will certainly launch these topics and answers on the Committee on Health and Family. Speaking of the "Gazala Bridge" bridge, I think that today in Belgrade, and also in Serbia, there is no man who doesn't feel terrible when he's supposed to leave the old part of the city in New Belgrade, so he doesn't panic. There was a time in the work of the city government, whose committee I was in between 2001 and 2003, and whenever we put this issue as an actual problem or as one of the most important problems, the problem of traffic in the city of Belgrade, why there is no internal master's ring, why there is no external master's ring, why Belgrade doesn't have enough bridges... Or perhaps I should remind you of one detail: the inhabitants of Ban’s hill, the Vidikovite, when they head towards the city and come to the Tsar’s will earlier stand in a column for an hour, and the reason is that the wait of an hour is the passing of a locomotive. Not to talk about other things, that through the city center and the rail and roadway through the tuning of the tanker, which truck, which on the wagons, are driving dangerous material. Who knows how many ecological incidents there have been in the Topcider and before Topcider, and at the Main Railway Station, and in Makish. But as most of the city's government had in its hands and knives and cakes, it used a knife more to cut off the part that would blend into their pockets and cut off the part of coalition partners that didn't think like them. That's the reason for today's problem. Of course there was supposed to be someone here from the government who's a representative of infrastructure and traffic, to collect a series of papers and to either confirm or deny this. Once again, we are not against this kind of thing that will bring about a better one, but we are certainly looking for answers to some questions, and we have heard these questions and they are very serious. The capacity of today's government, both republican and urban, does not say that there will be a shift. Who's going to give us an answer on what these funds are going to be used to reconstruct the clinical hospital centers? When have we ever had any response from the Ministry of Health on any serious subject? In every conversation with the representatives of the Ministry of Health, after questions and certain objections, we had monologues that lasted an hour, we had a conversation with deaf phones. We ask one question, and we get the answer to the other. What is it today or these days, when the whole profession is buzzing about evening clinics, what does that mean? Why do other professions not have the exclusive right to have and to make money based on what was general government and social investment? Why don't college professors start their evening colleges? Why don't the GSP drivers take the bus and drive and do it that way? Why don't the JAT pilots take the plane and drive somewhere else? Only by decision of the Ministry of Health is it possible, in addition to working time, in institutions that are state-owned and with appliances that all of us taxpayers bought, someone has an additional source of income. That's the point. That's why it took one of the representatives of the Ministry of Health to be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2146	The word has been given by the MP Radisa Ilic, followed by MP Dragan Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2147	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a dozen proposals for a law to confirm a loan agreement, namely a heavy guarantee agreement, which would say several hundred million euros. These loans relate to the reconstruction of bridges, "Gazale", roads, as well as projects in agriculture; then, there are projects related to clinical centres etc. Over the past few months, the public has been deceived that the opposition is guilty that these agenda points have not come to debate before, and in fact it is well known why the assembly broke up work about two months ago. Serbia owes these loans to about 400,000 euros to be redistributed to certain ministries. As usual, these funds will disintegrate, regardless of the many projects they have served as a cover for obtaining loans. An interesting fact is that the borrower, in this case, the Republic of Serbia, will have to settle the access fee 1% of the amount of loans, which will cost Serbia, only the cost of the bank, about fourm euros. A good part of the funds belongs to the Ways of Serbia. Some of the roads have been reconstructed, Gazela is listed, but I'm afraid these reconstructions are not like those highway reconstructions -- after only a month, shock holes and damage to August, and nothing. These days there have been frequent traffic jams and traffic jams, especially in Belgrade's approaches, as well as in the "Gazali" itself, and we have often been able to hear ominous comments on certain media -- it's the opposition's fault, the Assembly is not working, they haven't ratified their loans to avoid reconstructions, etc. In advance, it's already known who's going to do a lot of work on reconstruction. You know whose favorites have to get jobs in a sausage tender. We've had a chance to watch it before. I'm afraid the old story will repeat: the money will be spent, the reconstruction business will be finished, and after a few months you'll see how good the work was. About 50,000 euros in loan funds are intended for agricultural projects, starting with the rehabilitation of the irrigation and disposal systems, to projects mainly involving the education of agricultural producers and processors. It is now clear that there will be no effect from the loan funds. This is all like in some fog, this comes down to, as it says, quotes: "Enhancing capacity, building knowledge, institutional strengthening and providing hardware and software information and technology etc.". So is the loan for the Rehabilitation and Sewerage System Project. We would like to hear more about these projects, about places, about regions, about deadlines as well as the public in Serbia. Besides mentioning the Old Mountain, there's nothing left. Why are we no longer told about the rehabilitation of the deforestation and irrigation system, what are the areas of river flows, so that we know what it is? Maybe it's something to do with our municipalities we come from. Now I ask the Minister – will any of these funds be allocated to regulate the flow of the Great Morava River near the village of Sinovo in the Parisian municipality, where dozens of hectares of the fertile country disappear each year? The project to solve this problem was done at the end of the 1990s, and if something is not done soon, the regional road of Jagodina - Varvarin - Kruševac will be threatened very quickly. As for agricultural loans and loans directly to farmers, it is only enough to look at election campaigns of ruling parties back several years and their visits to households as users of agricultural credits. All units are members of these parties; and not only those who appeared in the campaign. How many millions went as grants to just those who had to meet only two conditions -- to have some countries and to have a membership card, preferably one of the political parties giving the Minister of Agriculture. Then the election comes, and the ministers go to their party comrades in the country to visit them as worthy farmers. All these funds will end with party colleagues. Some have companies that do projects, some have firms that perform advisory functions for farmers and producers, money will split, and agriculture will tap into place. I would also ask the government's representative, as far as all these law enforcement officials are concerned, both for roads, for agriculture and for health -- how much funds will be allocated to Kosovo and Metohija, for hospitals in Gracanica, Kosovo Mitrovica? Could the reconstruction of the part of the road Leposavić - Kosovo Mitrovica or the road to Zvecan, etc? Will one of the loans to encourage agriculture go to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, or is it perhaps suggested by the lender that you are not trying at all? Speaking of agriculture, I would like to pass on a question to the government's representative addressed by displaced persons from Kosovo and the Metohija concerning their equality with other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In order to obtain a loan from one of the agricultural producers, he provides as a guarantee his household and land he owns as a guarantee. In what situation are Serbs and other citizens who had to leave their property, their hearths and live here in Serbia today by collective centres, by abandoned houses, on the edge of existence, and want to work and start some agricultural production? Do you know of any bank in Serbia that will accept a real mortgage for property, say, in Peća or Prizren or anywhere in Kosovo and Metohija? I don't know any. That's why the state of Serbia should stand behind its citizens just by giving guarantees to them. As I recall, MPs of the ruling coalition generally swear that Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Republic of Serbia, so let them prove it in action. It should allow these people first of all to feel Serbian citizens, not feel like they have escaped from a foreign state. These Serbs are patriots and because of their attitude not to sell their property to the Shiptars, because we still have an argument to claim that KIM is Serbian. What would happen if tens of thousands of Serbian estates were sold, what would remain in the catastra in Serbian possession? Just monasteries and churches. It is well known that a hectare in the vicinity of the Cave is worth a small fortune, but the honorable Serbs will not sell it. They are asking the state of Serbia to help them reach some tractor, a field, to start with something, and that may be about tens of thousands of euros. Think about it, they deserve Serbia to repay them even so, and we hope that both they and Serbia will return to Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2148	The People's MP Dragan Vujadinovic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2149	Dear People's MPs, I hope to speak briefly, clearly, and understandablely, because I will use my old figure method in front of politics. In the first part, I will say a few words about these financial arrangements, i.e. credit lines, in the second part on several characteristics of the opinion on our sovereign debt, i.e. public debt and in the third part I will give a brief summary. So it's about preferential credit lines for improvement, whether they're specialist, clinical centres, whether it's about improving our infrastructure. Preferential credit lines mean that they are taken from creditors who help them develop underdeveloped and medium-developed countries, such as the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and other banks tasked with helping develop poorly developed and less developed countries from their capital portfolio. The less developed the country, the more proportionate credit conditions are. Better terms of credit for a less developed country. We are a medium-developed country on the lower border and thus the conditions of lending are among the most favourable. They're for these credit lines on the border, on the sidelines of the euribor and the libor, the euro credit euribor, and the US dollar libor. Unfortunately, movements in the capital market have led to an increase in interest rates over the last two or three years. Euribor now stands at about 5.1% and is about 1.5-2% higher than two years ago, and the bill of interest per dollar is about 3.1% on an annual basis right now. This increases the financial price of these loans, but these are the most favourable conditions and only apply to developing countries, those countries that need to develop their infrastructure. In that sense, it's really a shame (and I'm going to end this first point) that these credit lines were waiting for ratification. I would like to remind, as some on-call chronicler of our congregation events, that on March 7th at that session with the long agenda of the 34th point were all of these points. Unfortunately, there have been known events on March 13th, a new session was scheduled and it has not been held, so all these subsequent events conditioned that these preferential, I repeat, credit lines are only now being considered. The second point is the state of our government debt. I'm free to say, if I have that right, as an economic analyst who's whitened out of assets, passports and balances, that it's one of the most solid categories of macro-aggregates in our economy, far the most solid, state-of-the-art public debt. We are last year our public total debt, both internal and external... Internally, I repeat, refers to SDS - old foreign exchange savings and rebirth loan, it is about 3.3 billion. Last year, our external government debt was 9.3.35 billion euros, and of which the external public debt was 6.1 billion. This amounted to about 30% of gross social product last year. I want to remind myself, although this is difficult to compare with such a base, that in 2000 the public external debt was 120% compared to the gross social product, in 2001 - 102%, and it went 70, 60, to be 30% compared to the gross social product, and now it is, as you heard from Professor Dragutinovic's opening statement, 8.6 billion euros, a total public debt, and of that, the external public debt is 5.3 billion, because 3.3 is this old currency savings. It is now only 25.5% compared to the gross social product and this is compared to these countries in the transition environment by far the smallest percentage of the state's external debt, but only compared to the gross social product. The second question is private debt. The private debt in 2004, our companies, the external private debt, was three and a half billion, and now it's 11 billion. It's the investor's responsibility. It is the responsibility of our citizens and those investors, employers who are in charge of developing their investment activity. So, according to that criterion, our country... It's one of the most solid aggregates, a public debt, and it really needs to stop with the mystifications that we're over-indebted. Not even close. We're not over-indebted. With regard to preferential credit lines like these, we should still be in debt. Why did the foreign debt fall? Therefore, gentlemen, what is originally written in our last year's budget plan for 2008 - 48 billion or 600 million euros are the principal payments, so it fell from 9.3 to 8.6 as interest rates amounted to 17 billion dinars or over 200 million. That went into our last year's budget that we adopted at the end of the year. So I repeat that second point: indeed, the state of Serbia in that segment... There are many critical segments, such as public spending, but as far as external debt is concerned, we really have room for a new borrowing. Professor Dragutinovic, the minister, is likely to say in his presentation, I don't think there have been any cases of financial indiscipline, that we within the deadlines foreseen by the contracts have not paid our dues, whether it is to pay off the principal, or to pay off the interest. Another indicator: for example, the first-degree liquidity indicator, the short-term commitment of our country through foreign exchange reserves - 10% and Bulgaria, Romania and Croatia from 60% to 70%. It's that segment, but I repeat, it's a public debt segment, a government debt. On the other hand, we, for example, are in a double worse position than Bulgaria compared to Bulgaria for public spending in the state administration. That's where they need medication, where they need measures. The third point is a short summary. So, first of all, our public debt is really one of the most solid aggregates in terms of our overall macroeconomic position, and as far as the possibility of a new debt and as far as the current situation is concerned. Two, in this respect, the state of Serbia, i.e. the competent resolution ministries, should continue to activate the possibility of a new borrowing for preferential loans, particularly in terms of balanced regional development, in terms of removing regional development disorders, because we have really great proportions between certain regions. I think that, whether it's credit lines, whether it's a NIP, it's right to engage in a balance of regional development. The third conclusion is that you need to increase your debt. The fourth conclusion: I think that what is connected to the points, from the fourth to the fourteenth, is just an opportunity for both the left and the right to vote unanimously, because it is really about projects that have no alternative and that are absolutely important for the state of Serbia. In that sense, it is indeed an opportunity for parliament to show that the right hand side will not always vote against and left for; indeed this is an example, as was the case in the case of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2150	The word is made by the People's MP Milorad Buha, followed by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2151	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, over the past few months, the current government has criticised the opposition for obstructing the work of the Assembly and thus hindering the adoption of financial agreements. Right now, let's point out, we have to say that's not true. These agreements were signed 15 months ago, nine months, etc. The government adopted them last year. They were in congregation procedure early this year. Here, for six months, we have been waiting for them to come before the MPs and this assembly to adopt them, or ratify them. Who's in no hurry? She's not in a hurry to the current government, because if the current government wanted to, and if she wanted to, she'd have it in the course of last year, early this year. When we talk about the essence of these financial agreements, we must stress that it is necessary for this country, this country is hungry and thirsty as regards loans, and states, companies, businesses and citizens. We need to talk about the global responsibility of both states and companies, businessmen and citizens. That's where we get a very bad financial-monetary picture. A colleague, Vujadinovic, rightly said that external debt is the most beautiful monetary-financial picture. It is, but everything else is catastrophic. When we compare this data in 2000 - 2007, or 2008, we see a significant increase in both public debt and total external debt. However, the state was not in debt at the rate it could have. That's good, because the other monetary-financial aggregates are very unfavourable. I'll mention why they're unfavourable. Our external debt since 2000, when it was $10 billion, has increased to about $30 billion today. We belong to the middle-indebted countries and to the World Bank category, given our participation in the gross social product of 62.2 per day 31. 12. In 2007. However, our obligations, the obligations of the state, the obligations of companies, as well as citizens, are extremely high. They are now ranged from 3.1 billion to 3.5 billion dollars for the current year 2008. It's about 7.6% of gross social product, which again falls within the middle debt line, but we also have to mention other monetary-financial indicators that are far more unfavourable. The foreign trade deficit at the end of 2007 was $8.831m. It is 40% higher compared to 2006. On the sixth month of 2008, our total deficit is $6.3 billion, which is again an increase of 43% compared to 2007. This is very unfavourable and this aggregate belongs to the category of extremely difficult ones. I think that this government and previous governments have done nothing to reduce this deficit, i.e. to take certain activities and actions to increase exports by various stimulating measures and solutions and to reduce imports. We have the last three years of an annual increase in imports by over 40%. The assessment of economists is that this year, 2008 we will have a deficit in the external trade of $13 billion. When we talk about these figures, we always rule out Kosovo and Metohija. All of us here are declaring Kosovo and Metohija, we say it is an integral part of Serbia, but when we make financial calculations, we never take into account the deficit created by Kosovo and Metohija, and that deficit is almost at the level of two billion. That's KFOR data. So with this $13 billion, that's $15 billion. I must also warn the Ministry of Finance and the Government that there is a National Strategy for Economic Development from 2006 to 2012, where the parameters for the reduction of foreign trade deficits are publicly established. It said it would be phased down, and in the end, in 2012, we will have a deficit in the external trade of $5 billion. Now, according to this calculation, 15 is ours. I'm telling you it'll be 30 billion at the end of 2012. It's a disaster. Why? Because the government does nothing to stimulate exporters and reduce imports. These governments and previous governments were lobbying towards importers, stimulating them instead of stimulating exporters. We need to mention the monetary-financial aggregate and current balance deficit, which has been $7.2 billion since 2007, and at the end of this year, estimated at around $9 billion. No one here mentioned the budget deficit. We plan to predict it, what the Assembly passed by the 2008 Budget Law, at 14.8 billion dinars. What the indicators are telling us in seven months, it's now somewhere at a level of 10.5 billion dinars, but the government made a decision a few days ago to synchronise pensions by 6.5 and raise pensions by 10%. These are the total allocations of 15 billion dinars, and with this existing deficit of 10.5, plus what will be allocated to the travel economy, or what will be given to the NIP, then what is announced by the Ministry of Economy and Economic Development, the severance of workers working in social enterprises about fifty billion, at the end of this year would be a deficit of 50, even some economists say close to 60 billion dinars. The finance ministry did not report on such analyses by budgetary economists monitoring budget aggregates and saying it could be a 800m-euro budget "hole" at the end of the year. We're expecting budget rebalancing. The budget rebalancing should cover this huge hole, but there are no living matter that can close such a huge hole without us in charge, whether there are domestic or foreign creditors. We will most likely apply one and the other to the variant, and both are unfavourable Next, we need to talk about the very high debt of companies and it is currently at the level of nine billion euros. Indicators say that citizens, i.e. 313 billion dinars or four billion euros, while 13 billion euros is the current debt of banks, and when we add to each other's debt, the credit commitment between one and the other is as much as 17 - 18 billion euros. It's a very unfavourable aggregate. Furthermore, the NBS reference rate is currently the largest in Europe of 15.75. We have almost the largest inflation, of over 10%; regardless of all the monetary-financial attempts of the National Bank to put monetary aggregates in a certain level, we fail to reduce inflation, we fail to force specific foreign banks, or domestic banks with foreign capital, to balance them into that banking system and that interest policy that would allow us not to pay such high interest rates that are now, here, about 30% - the largest in Europe. Why does the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance allow the borrowing of these banks abroad under interest, which are related to EU monetary policy, at a level of 5% to 6%, and here the same funds are placed at 20.25% and 30%? Do you see the difference in interest, passive and active interest? It's nowhere in Europe, it's just taken in Serbia. You have to talk about it and you have to answer to the citizens, and the Prime Minister, and the finance minister and governor of the National Bank, why we pay the most expensive loans, why we have deficits and current balances and budgets and foreign trade deficits; while that is the case, we will have misery and misfortune in the people, and you are responsible for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2152	The word has been given by MP Zoran Kasalovic, followed by MP Milorad Krstin. I would just, on the basis of Articles 85, paragraphs 5 and 6. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have informed us that today's session session of the Assembly will continue until the end of this agenda, unless it is completed by 6 p.m. The break will be at 3:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2153	The Honorable Presidency, a respected minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is clear that it is contracts and agreements on the implementation of projects of vital importance for the state of Serbia, all of its citizens, from the domain of agriculture, infrastructure, even regional development, health, protection of human beings, and should therefore be fully supported. I am sure that the implementation of these projects will also be the first step in the successful implementation of the SAA when it is ratified and effective. I have no ambition to explain all 11 projects, but I want to apostrophe and give priority above all to the projects for the revitalisation of agriculture in transition and the rehabilitation of the deforestation and irrigation systems, primarily because of the areas where these projects focus and the objectives they want to achieve. The reason is simple, because I come from the municipality of Zitiste, from the Central Banat County where agriculture is a basic activity, a work that represents almost the only source of income for citizens and economic operators. Also, the municipalities of Zitiste and Secnicaj had experience with the 2005 floods. Agriculture is the most sensitive area, and it is also the key to Serbia's economic recovery, which is why there is additional importance for these projects. Of course, agricultural reform projects in transition represent the way to raise the level of competitiveness of agriculture, then to intensify agricultural production and thus affirm rural development and enable the survival of young people, to stop, therefore, one chain of negative migration and thus ensure that the most vital part of the population is engaged in agriculture, and in this way, I am convinced, the fight against the white plague will also be realized. As for the project of the deforestation and irrigation system, I really think that the funds we are investing at this point are significantly smaller, because the moment the unwanted consequences and the great damages occur, we are able to invest large and enormous resources to protect property and crops. In this sense, we go to encounter events to prevent damage and protect, above all, human lives and crops. I can tell you, let's say, in the municipality, crops suffered damage not only in 2005, but they did not give the expected results in the coming years. In this regard, I would like to say that these two projects have really great importance for rural areas, underdeveloped municipalities and border municipalities, but I do not think they will be enough for these areas to experience one full renaissance and economic prosperity. One expert analysis would be needed to show that, in terms of solving these problems, there is enough space for one stimulating fiscal policy to help develop all these areas. With that in mind, I'll talk about it next time, some other time, and I fully support all these projects, in terms of our country's duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2154	I am giving notice of holding a session of the Legislative Committee. The session will take place today, 8 September 2008, starting at 15:45, at the Blue Salon. Does MP Milorad Krstin want the word now, or should you be first in line in the afternoon part of the session, given that the SRS parliamentary group has plenty of time? Yeah. I thank you. I'm setting a break. We'll continue our work at 4:00. First on the list of speakers will be the People's MP Milorad Krstin, followed by the MP Nenad Popovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we continue to work to inform you that there has been a change in the membership of the SRS parliamentary group and that, for the president of the parliamentary group, there is a specific MP Dragan Todorovic, and for the deputy president, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. I would also like to inform you that a new parliamentary group called "Forward, Serbia" has been educated in the National Assembly, which consists of nine MPs, and for the president of the parliamentary group is designated MP Tomislav Nikolic. We're continuing our work. The word is Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2156	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come to say something about a set of these laws, especially points 9, 10 and 11. It is a loan agreement (A project of agricultural reform in transition) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Development, a proposal for a law on the validation of the loan agreement (additional financing of the rehabilitation project of the irrigation and deforestation system) and a proposal for a grant agreement from the Global Fund for the Protection of the Environment (A project for the reform of agriculture in transition) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Development. Before I start talking about these points, first I'd like to do an analysis of Serbia's agriculture, starting from 2001 to 2008, by this September 8th. In fact, Serbia has between 4800 and 5,000 villages. According to experts, if you take care of agriculture like this for the next ten years, 1,000 villages will disappear. There are 800,000 households in these 5,000 villages. The area of agricultural land in Serbia covers 5,734,000 hectares (or 0.56 hectares per capita), and at 4,867,000 hectares of surface area are farmed land (0.46 hectares per capita), enough for this Serbia to feed itself, enough capacity to feed other countries to those agricultural products that they do not have and we do not have. But we cannot be regional food exporters if we know that 38kg of fertilizer is spent per hectare in Serbia, and that we should be minimally spending 300kg of fertilizer per hectare so that we can be regional food exporters. The question arises how to improve Serbia's village and the lives of peasants who are the basis of every story and idea in Serbia's agriculture as an engine of export growth and national product of Serbia? We're going to get there very easily, and I've been listening every year since I've been an MP here, and especially for eight years, to get a lot of donations from various international community funds. It's kind of a peasant who doesn't feel it and can't, with such incentive measures, improve agricultural production. How do we do that without being the key regional food exporters? You have to do a little bit more, gentlemen of the government, to make an effort, together with these troubled farmers, or neglected, to experience some bloom, and in order for us to say – here, we are now the main regional food exporters. We were told that the Japanese government helped us with 200,000 euros, where the Ministry of Agriculture, in fact, passed those 200,000 euros into one of the fertilizer production factories. When asked how they think it gets to the farmer, I am responsible that this time the registered agricultural land or several registered agricultural holdings will go to that factory, organize themselves, take over this fertilizer, and then there will be no artificial fertilizer from the spring until now to collect 80%. I have made one assessment of how much an individual agricultural producer can do based on some incentive measures, which I believe are not exactly stimulating measures so far, to contribute to the better life of its agricultural household. In order to process one hectare, it takes 60 liters of D2 diesel. When we recalculate it at that price of 89 dinars and 30 pairs, or round to 90 dinars, that's already about 5,400. If we sow wheat where 2,500 thousand were paid for 100 kg, and now 3,000 for 100 kg of wheat, and for a hectare it takes 250 kg, then the farmer has to allocate another 7,500 dinars. The mineral fertilizer was 300 euros per tonne in the spring, and now 500 euros is one ton. With that 500 euros per tonne, or whatever it takes, 500 kilograms of fertilizer times the price, I calculated it takes 23,100 dinars per hectare. Then, lastly, which rarely puts it, is a hectare-thin thousand dinars, which totals 41,000 dinars per hectare, as I quoted by the items. Regarding what the Serbian government says about 4.3 tonnes of wheat per hectare is that I am a skeptic because I know what the yield is in the Central and North Bank district and that the average is three and a half tonnes. If we put these three and a half tons of 14 dinars, although we who were members of the Committee received a statement from the Minister of Agriculture that with the VAT, the price of wheat was 15.75 dinars and 50% of the farmers did not receive those 14 dinars, I find that according to that contribution of 3.5 tonnes of 14 dinars per kilogram, the farmer receives 49,000 dinars. When you subtract 49,000 dinars from 41,000 you see that the wheat farmer has only eight thousand dinars. If you take that one household has ten acres, that's the maximum, I don't believe a four-member family that owns ten hectares can live with a thousand euros. That's the indicator you have to take special care of. When it comes to lending, I have already asked on several occasions ( exactly nine times) especially in 2005 and 2006, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, where the names and last names or names of those entities that have received grants and long-term loans. I've asked for this pay phone nine times, I've never received an answer to a parliamentary question. Now, on the basis of this bill, when that money comes to the bank accounts of the Serbian state, I fear that again someone closer to the authorities, who is closer to the parties or is a member of the party in power, will be given priority when it comes to these grants and long-term loans. I'm going to give you one more fact, which is that I asked the same question in 2006, when loans to the 180,000,000-dollar irrigation systems from the Ministry of Agriculture were given to three entities. We didn't get an answer a day or so, which is three entities that got 180,000,000 dinars. Isn't it better that thirty of them got, not three at 60,000,000? I'm afraid this will continue as it has been. As for the price of sunflowers, I must say that last year the price of sunflower was 2,700 dinars - 100 kilograms. This year it's 2,415 dinars. It's not such a big difference, given that mostly olives "get out" to give free seed and that the state grants 10,000 dinars per hectare. But what about the corn that's already started to combine? Last year, there were 1,700 dinars, and now it is suggested that 100 kilograms will be between 800 and 900 dinars, which means 50% cheaper. Are these the incentive measures that the state will implement to make tomorrow better for the farmer, the farmer? Or, as you stated in your brochure – Serbia must increase its ratings production and average yields per hectare, improve subsidisation and lending of agriculture, increase the use of mineral fertilizer... (President: I ask the MPs to allow the MP to speak and take their seats. )......................................................................................................... increase both modern capacities and irrigation systems... That's what the Serbian government, the agriculture ministry, should do with all this money that will come in these three laws. [[Disabled microphone.]] If you don't do it, this is how you crash agriculture and this is how you tortured a peasant, a farmer, a patron will have no more for his country, nor for his family, nor for his children's schooling.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2157	The word is by Mr Nenad Popovic, the Democratic Party of Serbia. He's not present. ) The word has Aleksandar Martinovic, a Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2158	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, every story and every debate on the proposals of these laws should begin with the information that we had to get from the proposing representatives, how much the external debt of the Republic of Serbia is, given the fact that since 2000, all DOS governments in various variants are only doing is in debt to the Republic of Serbia abroad. According to official data, but not the Serbian government, but the World Bank, the external debt of the Republic of Serbia is about $30 billion. According to the World Bank's calculations and budgets, the Republic of Serbia ranks in the middle-indebted countries. As for the financial aspects of all these agreements, my colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party have said enough about it, I would just like to point out a few legal shortcomings in all these agreements. When it comes to the loan for the additional financing of the transport reconstruction project, there's one thing that fell into my eyes, so it would be good for the finance minister to explain what's going on. Namely, the annex to this agreement, called - Domestic Competition, Additional Provisions, Annex (c) The participation of state-owned enterprises, reads: "State enterprises can only participate in competition if they can prove that they are legally and financially independent, that they operate in accordance with economic law and that they are not an independent institution of the contracting parties. Furthermore, such undertakings will be subject to the same supply and guarantee requirements for the proper execution of the job, as well as other bidders. "What stems from such a provision? It turns out the state-owned enterprises of the Republic of Serbia cannot participate in the competition for several reasons. This is where state-owned enterprises are required to be legally and financially independent. State, or public enterprises in the Republic of Serbia are enterprises founded by the Republic of Serbia. It is the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, who appoints directors of public enterprises, who elects members of their boards of directors and supervisory boards. This means that state-owned, i.e. public enterprises in the Republic of Serbia in the beginning, in the letter of this agreement, are excluded from competition. Furthermore, when it comes to the Global Environment Fund grant agreement, the Reform of Agriculture in Transition Project, Article 5, is indeed unclear and it is from a legal point of view. Article 5(2) reads as follows: "As part of the evidence to be provided in accordance with point (a) of Article 5(5), the bank should deliver an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the bank by the authority acceptable to the bank, where this agreement will be confirmed to be duly approved, ratified and signed on behalf of the recipient and legally binding in accordance with its provisions. "I really find it unclear that some proof is being sought here that the agreement has been signed, when the agreement is already signed. There's nothing in particular to prove and explain. Furthermore, according to international conventions that regulate the question of the conclusion of international contracts for the other Contracting Party, proof that an international contract has been ratified is so-called. Ratification instrument. The exchange of these instruments introduces each of the parties to the fact that the other contracting party has ratified the international contract by its competent national authority. It turns out that this is not enough, so not only is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia required through law to ratify this international treaty, but the opinion that is satisfactory for whoever gave this donation is indeed confirmed, or approved by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is not said here which body should give a satisfactory opinion to the bank on whether the agreement has been ratified in the Republic of Serbia. It would turn out to be the Ministry of Justice, it doesn't say that here, but we find it really unnecessary that an international contract contains a provision that is not sufficient ratification, but that one state body should further give a satisfactory opinion on whether the contract is ratified or not. As for the law confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for the project Clinical Centres A, Madam Minister, I draw your attention to one, in addition to a legal, very striking tabular slip. In fact, we have repeatedly drawn attention that when you translate international contracts you cannot translate them mechanically. You cannot translate an international contract that is concluded in English into Serbian but in the spirit of the English language, but you must translate it into the spirit of the Serbian language and in the spirit of the Constitution and the applicable laws of the Republic of Serbia. Madam Minister, I'm distracting you, it's about the law on confirming a financial contract for clinical centres. Here's one proof of how you... Not you personally, but the people who were involved in the translation of this contract really did it in a very mechanical way, unprofessional way, probably think the MPs of the opposition wouldn't do it in such detail. On page 48, schedule one - Information about the project to be sent to the bank and the method of their transfer; Sending information: determining the responsible person; then you have one table, after the word "companion" stands literally on Cyrillic "contact person". You probably meant the person who was in charge of contact with the person who gave the loan, or the loan, but then that's how it was supposed to be written, and this is how the Cyrillic was written with an English term. It's really unserious. Only those worst students in high school write Latin with Cyrillic. We now see that the Serbian government is doing the same, which does not pay any attention to how international agreements are translated. This, Madam Minister, really falls into your eyes, you and I are funny, but I draw your attention to that fact, there are a lot more drastic mistakes here. When you translate those international agreements you must keep in mind the terminology used by the Serbian Constitution, the applicable laws and, of course, you must take care of the spirit of the Serbian language. Furthermore, the Funding Agreement, Project Regional Development of Bora, on page 32, is again something that is a norm that discriminates against our public enterprises, the participation of public enterprises. You see, among other things, how inconsistently you use terminology: in one bill you use the term "state enterprises", and in the second proposal of the law, you use the term "public enterprises", although in either case, it is the same legal entities. "The public enterprises are similar to participating in the competition only if they can prove that they are legal and financial independent, that they are working under the rules of economic law and that they are not an independent agency of the government that is the contracting party. In addition, they are subject to the same requirements regarding competition and guarantee for good performance of the job as other bidders. "This means that you are in the beginning eliminating from the competition of public enterprises whose founder is the Republic of Serbia because the Republic of Serbia through the government appoints their directors, board members and financial ties between the Republic of Serbia and these public enterprises absolutely no one questions. Finally, the Funding Agreement, Additional financing of the energy efficiency project for Serbia, page 26. Madam Minister, I would really like you to explain Annex to Program 2, Domestic competition: additional provisions, then under (a) - Registration: "The fee is not limited to previously registered companies". Does this mean that in one competition based on an international contract, business entities that are not registered in either the Republic of Serbia or any foreign country can participate? In the ordinary job of renovating a primary school in Serbia, a non-registered business operator cannot participate, and you are giving the opportunity to participate in a market game an entity that is not registered at all! I'm paying attention to your terminology again. As finance minister, you'd have to know that the company and the company aren't the same. The company is a name, i.e. the name under which the company operates in legal traffic; the company is a legal entity and its name is a company. As we all have our personal names and names, private companies have their names, and these are the names of their companies. This also had to be detailed in the agreement. Again, a discriminatory provision for our public enterprises: "public enterprises are similar to participating in competition only if they can prove that they are legally and financially independent. "No public company in Serbia can prove it and I really don't understand why you exclude from the economic competition public enterprises whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, and on the other hand you give me a chance to participate in the game, as you say, companies that are not previously registered. I doubt that in another international contract that international financial institutions conclude with other countries there are such provisions. These provisions are very vague, inaccurate both from legal and language aspects, and I suspect that by excluding you from the competition of public enterprises whose founder of the Republic of Serbia has actually given a chance to various tycoons who have been involved in asphalting streets and roads in Serbia for years, i.e. by carrying out other capital infrastructure projects. You are doing enormous damage to the Republic of Serbia, not only economically but also politically, because we are seen abroad as one banana state in which it is enough to gather five-six mobsters and tycoons who have construction machines and can do whatever they want in Serbia. The government does not prevent them, but even helps them through the conclusion of such international contracts in their illegal activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2159	Mr. Pelevic is advertising the Rules of Procedure. Just to inform you that the session of the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has just begun, is held at 4:30 in the Blue Salon, so I ask that members of the Legislative Committee take part in the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I'm sorry to interrupt the debate on such an important matter, but I have to advertise Article 59. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly on the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. "The Kosovo and Metohija Committee is considering all issues related to this province, taking into account, above all, the Serbian national and state interests of our country, proposing to the National Assembly the appropriate decision, declarations, resolutions and monitoring of their implementation and implementation by the relevant authorities and institutions. The board has 15 members." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the fourth time today there was no quorum to hold a session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. No single member of the ruling coalition has appeared. The opposition board members were in the hallway. Given that out of the 15 members of the eight members are members of the ruling coalition, it is clear that the ruling coalition is obstructing the work of our committee, which I consider most important, which is the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. I must say that every session is attended by Minister for Kosovo and Metohija Goran Bogdanovic. Instead of a session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, which you are obstructing, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija and I had a constructive debate today, we better say dialogue, about what the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija is. He then told me that the Serbian government has decided to withdraw its resolution on Kosovo and Metohija from the assembly procedure. I was very surprised and asked why such a move. I guess that's because you didn't provide most of your resolution. But, gentlemen, you can't expect the opposition to make a quorum, because she can't make it on that committee, since we're from the opposition to the minority. I was told by Mrs Nada Kolundzija, who is just entering the hall, after last time I advertised the lack of quorum at the session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee, that it is not party policy, that it is not party policy. I believe that, but explain to me why none of your MPs were present today at the session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, except for the minister, with whom I correctly discussed the situation in Kosovo and Metohija and who informed me that there will be no resolution, because it has been withdrawn, the government has today withdrawn from the assembly procedure. I am sorry about that, but the very fact that you have put this resolution in the last place of the current agenda speaks of your relationship with Kosovo and Metohija. As chairman of this committee, I decided this: all future sessions will be scheduled in the territory of our southern Serbian provinces of Kosovo and Metohija, even if they were in the form of discussions or visits by our people who live there under really bad conditions; I will talk to the Minister downstairs and the Secretary of State from your party, I will also talk to representatives of Serbs who think differently than you think and who have won a far greater number of votes than your supporters in Kosovo and Metohija, and we will try to do everything together to sort out this problem in a way. At the first session, I said that there is no partying about Kosovo and Metohija, and that we must be unique, because at least we agree, although I doubt it more and more, it seems to me - we are realistic, and you are merely declarative. I'm sorry about that. Please, Mrs. Nado Kolundji, order your committee members to be present at the next meetings of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2161	Mrs. Hope Kolundji, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2162	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 101. I apologize to Mr. Pelevic, but we have one problem that we haven't been able to solve yet. Some MPs who were members of the Committee have been suspended from the term of office and have not yet been replaced and that is why the committee has not met. I hope that soon, because on other committees we have similar problems, that problem will be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2163	Mr. Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2164	Now I have learned through the means of information that the government has withdrawn the proposal for the last item of the agenda, when it comes to the resolution on so-called. Continuity, we say discontinuity, state policy regarding Kosovo and Metohija. I'm having a hard time interpreting that news. On the one hand, if it were the government's awareness of all the mistakes made so far by the ruling coalition when it comes to the way Kobajagi protected Serbia's integrity so far, I would welcome it. However, I am afraid that this is only about the need to avoid a debate on one item of the agenda, when it is known that a long debate on the proposal of a group of 108 MPs submitted in June this year. It can't be left without a comment. I do not expect the ruling coalition to change this course that has now taken, will not change its opinion that Eulex is something that is dangerous for Serbia's territorial integrity, despite the fact that EULEX spokesman Mrs Lindal clearly and unequivocally said that the sole task of Eulex is to support the constitution of the Republic of Kosovo and the accompanying package of laws that means nothing but Kosovo's independence. Despite the fact, and despite the fact that the palpitation of a pulse in the International Court of Justice in The Hague, as the ruling coalition has imagined, through some kind of advisory opinion, is something that can benefit Serbia, and may even, in our opinion, turn some EU countries that have so far not recognised Kosovo's independence and Metohija against Serbia's interest, at the moment of voting in the UN on this issue, because it is a very dangerous way of testing someone's pulse. It is much better to go very bravely and openly with what Serbia has the right to defend itself with, the International Court of Justice suit in The Hague against those states that have recognised Kosovo illegally, and thus prove that Serbia is right, as a dignified state, using legal means, must do. I'm afraid there's no change in these key things, but we'll see what the government has been up to. In front of the DSS parliamentary group, I expect a session to be called on a proposal from a group of MPs who requested it, as is the case with Article 106. The constitution predicts.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2165	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Pelevic. Here you go. Just let me know. The government is, on the basis of Article 143(1) and in relation to Article 160. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, withdrew from the assembly procedure Proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the continuity of state policy against Kosovo and Metohija, delivered to the National Assembly by Act No. July 5, 2008. Here you go, Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what you've just announced is really sad, it's a confirmation of what I was just talking about. If you did not have a majority, you could adopt an amendment that represents a joint resolution of the SRS, the DSS and the NS and everything would be fine, you would have an absolute majority when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. It's happened before, and I think it's a good practice and it shouldn't be abandoned. Dear Mrs Kolundzhija, I have received your notice as very reasonable, but it is not clear to me how it is possible that in so long you have failed to provide two MPs, one from the Democratic Party and the other from the Socialist Party of Serbia, who will replace your MPs in the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. Forgive me, I do not wish to offend you as a lady, but I must say that this is the negligence of your ruling coalition. The other thing, which is sad, is that without knowledge of this assembly and without knowledge of the Kosovo Committee and Metohija, Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic sent a letter to the International Court of Justice in The Hague asking for an opinion on the legitimacy of Kosovo and Metohija's declaration of independence. The resolution was written on half the page, so he said on TV. Are the resolutions written on half the page? How will the judges understand that? It's like a very unserious act. It cost him half of several thousand killed Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, 1300 missing and kidnapped Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, 250,000 exiled Serbs and non-Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija, half the site cost him 156 destroyed Serbian churches and monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija and cost him 15% of Serbia's territory. All-faith, Mr. Foreign Minister. If such a resolution is sent, in half, to the International Court of Justice, then it is truly regrettable for this country. You know what the problem is? In that court, most judges are from countries that have already recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. And what do we expect from that so-called. The resolution, from those half-letters in a few sentences? Of course, it's a great risk, it's a great delusion and it's going to be very difficult if that court says - it's precedent, it happened and it's legitimate. What then, if we take into account his statement on television, means not convincing the newspaper, but his statement on TV where he said that Serbia will respect any decision by the International Court of Justice in The Hague? So if they say -- Kosovo is independent, we will also say Kosovo and Metohija is an independent Albanian creation, according to it. We will not say that and we will fight with all means to bring Kosovo and Metohija back into the frameworks of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2167	Thank you. Just to inform you and the public that the proposals for new MPs have arrived at the Assembly, however, it can only happen at a session where we will have the agenda and it will be the first session after this. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2168	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the notice you sent us, Madam President. It is about the government's decision to withdraw from the discussion the next item of the agenda, which is the debate on the resolution on Kosovo. For us, a very important explanation is why the government is now insisting on such an initiative; is it because the government no longer has the power to insist on the policy of continuity, that policy they have criticised, or because the government has no power to impose some new policy. In any case, regardless of the explanation, it is clear that it is the policy we have been talking about for years policy that has endured the test of time. It's a policy that, despite all the convictions, was also an expression of our sincere patriotism. You know what, there's a long-distributed roles here in the Assembly. For years now, you've known on-call patriots and on-call traitors. Just because of everything we've done in the last few years, we'd like to hear an explanation of the government's position. The government called for Article 143(1). Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. However, there is an attitude 2. The position makes it very clear that the National Assembly, on a reasoned proposal from the proposer, can decide to withdraw a certain item from the session agenda that is under way until the start of the search, provided that the sittings are attended by at least 126 MPs. For years, we have been alone in the assembly booth defending political ideas and values that, in our opinion, the government is approaching this initiative, but obviously cannot say that. We'd like to hear something just like that from the government. We would like to hear from the government that this country can no longer follow a policy that opposes the interests of our society. We want to hear from the government that it is ready to commit itself to protecting the interests of the Serb community in Kosovo, not just to remedy the damage caused by the past policy, the damage that has become high to the extent that it is burdening our future at this point. So, Madam President, please tell us what's the explanation for this, because this is also too serious a political issue. We played a lot with the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, a lot of the issue was the subject of party struggles. If we agreed here in the Assembly to hold consultations between all parliamentary groups, if that agreement was attended by the Prime Minister, then I think we deserve, as MPs, something more than this shrewd request. What did Prime Minister Cvetkovic discover in the meantime, so he decided to avoid discussing the continuity of state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija? So 108 MPs have filed a motion to discuss Kosovo here. We are ready at all times to participate in this debate, just as we are prepared to say why we do not agree to the policy of continuity. It is obvious that the government has no power for either turn, and it is obvious that the government is not capable of solving the problems arising from such a kind of impotence. So, before we move on to the vote, let's hear what the explanation of one such request is and see if there are 126 MPs in the Assembly who would still be quiet about the fact that, among other things, the vote of 11 May is confirmed, that Serbia must agree to the kind of policy that its society agrees with, and at this point, to seek a change in everyday life, and also to the course of the state that followed in the process of resolving Kosovo's problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2169	Mr Jovanovic, in accordance with Article 143(1), the legislator has the right to withdraw the draft law from the procedure until the finalisation of the draft law at a session of the National Assembly. I would agree with you that on such an important issue, the Government owes the Assembly an explanation and we will refer such a request to the Government. As regards the second attitude you have discussed, which you have called upon, a reasoned proposal from the Proposer may decide to withdraw a certain point from the sitting agenda, which is pending until the start of the search of that point at the session of the National Assembly, provided that the sittings are attended by at least 126 MPs. So this is the second case, not the one we have today. You understand me? According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2170	The truth is, Madam President, that's another case. At the time when I answered the words of the Rules of Procedure to deliver an oral notice to lawmakers who have not watched news shows of various national televisions, this paper has not yet been delivered by address on behalf of the Government of Vice-President Ivica Dacic, who informs us of the withdrawal from the assembly procedure of the motion for resolution. Now we've got it in the meantime. What you just said in your reply to Mr Jovanovic is partly true. That's another case. You can't because in one case, there is a detailed description of what should be contained in what the Government is delivering to the Assembly to interpret that in another case it should not contain at all. So, in each of these cases, it is understood that withdrawing the proposal from the procedure... Although the government is the master of the extraordinary session, as the session's initiative is being convened and with a set agenda, however, it should be interpreted by the Rules of Procedure so as not to propose a withdrawal, but rather, that withdrawal notice should be explained. The first time I went out for a pay phone, I mentioned two options. One is that the government has changed its mind, has decided to return to a single state policy, has seen its error in the text of a resolution on the continuity of state policy, realizing that it is discontinuity with state policy. That's one option, so we'll probably go the way we're supposed to go, that's the president of the National Assembly. you call an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with the already submitted motion for a resolution of 108 MPs, after which the resolution would be voted upon. It's a return to state policy. Another possibility is to ignore it, so that you do not call that session, in violation of Article 106. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The third possibility is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will come up with some new proposal asking for a new emergency session or proposing an amendment to our text of resolution and trying to make some compromise in places where it probably cannot be. No compromise can be made on the already established single state policy. She's the only one who can stand down from her. So far, the ruling coalition has shown that it has stepped down from a single state policy and that is more than clear. This withdrawal of the agenda means only one thing, in my opinion, to interpret it to the end. This means that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ruling majority does not want to hear twice about it, does not want the opposition to tell them twice about the same thing at the time when the resolution on Kosovo and the Metohija was discussed and then, after the opposition is dissatisfied, at least a good part of the opposition will be dissatisfied, because the amendment of the opposition is i.e. The DSS is obviously not going to accept, re-deploying the same at an emergency session, which must be convened within the meaning of Article 106. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's the secret of everything. So there's no greater philosophy. I'm afraid that's it, nothing else. Dear ladies and gentlemen, this game is obviously not a good way to solve problems in Serbia. The best way to solve problems in Serbia is to return to a single state policy. Since the ruling coalition, which has, by its own composition, deceived citizens and their electoral expectations, has no intention of doing so, obviously returning to a single state policy will wait for some better times. This one, apparently, is not for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2171	Mr. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2172	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, members 224, 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. Madam President, is there any way that we as parliament can get information before this session is terminated, which is why the government is withdrawing such an important item of the agenda? Every initiative must be followed by some responsibility. We didn't adopt the SAA in July because of the unfortunate way we started our meeting. We started the meeting by ignoring the demands of 108 SRS, DSS and NS MPs to discuss Kosovo and Metohija. Then we put on the agenda the Government Resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, which did not stand behind the ruling coalition, and there was no majority for the resolution, and that resolution was not preceded by any consultations, which were the rule of our policy over the past few years, so that we would now, several months afterwards, receive a letter in three sentences signed by the Deputy Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister, in which he introduces us to the idea that the government is giving up the debate on the issue. In ten days or a week before the UN General Assembly, representatives of our country will appear with one initiative. We didn't discuss this initiative here in parliament. The initiative was never discussed by the government, unless it was some secret government session. I think of the idea to ask the General Assembly for support for an initiative that we will launch before the International Court of Justice, which would then be consultatively made known whether recognition of Kosovo's independence and the Metohija is a violation of international law. This congregation has never discussed it. We didn't get a chance to see the foreign minister here in the O.R. He's in Egypt today, and I hope he knows what he's looking for, but it would be good if you, as president of the Assembly, would allow us to talk about this issue. I'm not saying you're not, but it seems to me that you're in an awkward position, as are all my MPs. We do not like the idea of further confrontation in international politics, and all those actors of international policy that we care about warn us that the initiatives we are launching lately are initiatives that will eventually end up as well as this proposal for a resolution of the Government of Serbia on the continuity of state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija – with lots of stories and minimal results. That's why someone needs to take responsibility. We have been saying for years that this country cannot change the lives of its citizens if it insists on the policy of continuity it has implemented in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. If the government became aware of it in the meantime, then the government must speak plainly. If the government wants to continue the implementation of the old policy in another way, then it should also say it openly here, but these are not good. The price of such concerns, as a rule, is paid by those who have the least to answer for it, which is our people in Kosovo and Metohija, which is the Serb community in Kosovo and Metohija. That is why I think that Parliament is obliged to be more serious about this position of the Government and I ask you to tell us when you will inform us about whether we will be able to listen to the government's argument before this session is over or we will get it in October of the month, when everything in itself will be less important because it will remain far behind us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2173	Thank you. Your question, which is obviously the issue of a large number of MPs, about why the withdrawal of the agenda on such an important issue has not been accompanied by an explanation, will be delivered during the day to the Government, with the expectation that the answer will be as quickly as possible. That's what I can do and what I'm gonna do anyway. Mr. Kragovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, members of 225 and 226, and I'm looking for an explanation for this proposal. The withdrawal from the agenda of the item concerning the debate on Kosovo and Metohija, which we received about ten minutes ago, was signed by the first Deputy Prime Minister, or Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Ivica Dacic. Since there is no explanation, I will give an explanation in one word, which is - the betrayal of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, the betrayal of the state and national interests of the Republic of Serbia. This act defines the government as the site that is devastating for the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. A new exodus of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija will take place, with the ruling majority policy currently in power in the state of Serbia. It's something no one could expect. Instead of discussing how to ensure a better life and conditions for Serbs and other non-Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, how their children can be educated, to deliver to them the textbooks you promised to have every school year, and not a single textbook you sent to Kosovo and Metohija, to provide them with conditions to be treated, to provide conditions for local self-governments formed after the May 11th elections in Kosovo and Metohija... None of this is there, everything is left to the mercy and mercy of the remaining Serbian people in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. There have been many things happening, and this House has kept quiet. It came February 17th to self-proclaim Kosovo's independence. We didn't react to that moment. The interim Kosovo institutions declared Kosovo's constitution on 9 April. We didn't react then either. On June 15th, that so-called. Kosovo Constitution. We didn't react then either. Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija gathered and agreed to establish a Serb community assembly in Kosovo and Metohija. It was an answer and a disagreement with that policy that was going on until then. The assembly was formed on Vidovdan, 28 June 2008. We have received only verbal support from all of you that we need to endure and work on this assembly of Serb municipalities communities, which aims to bring together all Serbian local self-governments in Kosovo and Metohija, to solve problems in one place, to be stronger and stronger in order to resist that goal, which is to take away a part of the territory of the Serbian state. Such a move by the ruling majority, without even a single word of reason why it seems, has an explanation, as I said at first, in one single word, which is – the betrayal of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija and the betrayal of Serbian national and state interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2175	The word is Mr. Slobodan Maras, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Mr. Ostojić, also according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2176	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in connection with the violation of Articles 104 and 226. As the president of the LDP parliamentary group said, this is already who knows for some time recently that the government is in a completely scandalous, or inappropriate way addressing the Serbian Parliament, or MPs. Without reason to inform MPs that the agenda point has been withdrawn, and that is the agenda point around which we have warned for the past few years that it is being run in the wrong way towards Kosovo, my predecessor said earlier that this is evidence of betrayal. I think this is proof of the defeat of a failed policy, a policy that has led to Serbia being in the situation it has been in over the past few years. However, this raises the question of responsibility. So we need to determine who is responsible, which is why Serbia has led the wrong policy towards Kosovo and Metohija over the past few years. We've come to a situation where the government speaks to us in such a bizarre way that it gives up the agenda point, without any explanation. I must remind you of one thing: on February 17th, when Kosovo unilaterally declared independence, all parliamentary parties that were then in the Assembly, and even now, agreed that no one could recognise such a Kosovo. However, only LDP members experienced the following things. So, they raided our apartments of angry mobs, burned down our entrances, burned down our rooms, attacked our MPs, attacked our members on the street just because we were telling the truth. We were telling the truth that the policy led by the previous government was devastating for Kosovo, defeating for citizens of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija. That's why the government has to... Madam President, I ask you to take advantage of all your authority and, during today's day, to get an answer from the government, or to get an explanation for why this point has been withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2177	Thank you. Let me just inform you that the chairman of the Administrative Board, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, called the 8th session of the National Assembly's Management Board for Monday, 8 September at 17.15 p.m. The agenda is scheduled - consideration of Milan Vukovic's resignation as a MP in the National Assembly. The session will be held in the building of the National Assembly, in the Blue Salon. There is a word Mr. Ostojic, also according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2178	Well, everyone has their eighth session. I'm advertising a violation of Article 225. The MP has the right to be informed of all matters. This is not the law on vaccination and vaccination of stray dogs so that they can get into the procedure and get out of the procedure. I must remind you that from this session it has often been heard that this is a historical law, a historical resolution. There has been a lot of history here, especially when it comes to Kosovo. Until yesterday, and most of this side, without us (shown by hand), and this whole side brought the Constitution, threw in preambles, and we were on duty traitors, burning down our rooms, even on the day Belgrade was destroyed and the embassies burned down. That's why it can't just do that; or the government has finally realized that the single state policy is over, that it has led as far as it could lead, to what the LDP has warned. When we told you two years ago -- what you're doing will lead to an independent Kosovo, you said we advocated an independent Kosovo. When we told you to take care of Serbs and to fight for the rights of the Serb minority in Kosovo, because it goes its own way, you told us that we are Albanian mercenaries, all of you who argue over all this. When we told you that Russia will not preserve Kosovo, do not give it NIS, when Russia has recognised Georgia's Kosovo, it is clear to you that it will not preserve Egypt and I do not know which other country. It is therefore important to explain the reason why the government withdrew this resolution. It's just that there's been so much demagogy about Kosovo over the past few years, all of you together, it's time to put an end to it. That is why the MPs of the Liberal Democratic Party insist that the government representative Mr Cvetkovic, or someone whom he has authorised, clearly state what happened during these weeks when a resolution on the continuity of the state policy on Kosovo was insisted on being introduced and today when the resolution is withdrawn without reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2179	He has the word of Ambassador Rangelovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2180	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I am reporting to take advantage of the parliamentary right of members 225 and 226, in relation to Article 104, with the aim of making one comment to the legislator of this law. The interpretation given by the speaker of the assembly is legal correct, her pledge to make the argument politically correct, but the government's behaviour is not politically correct. It is true, in the first position of Article 143, that the motionor may withdraw the bill at any time, but it is true that the proposer, in this case the Government, must also behave in accordance with the provisions of Articles 225 and 226. In this lies the political responsibility of the promoter, i.e. the Government. This political responsibility also implies an explanation of why LDP members and sympathisers at the time of the ruling summits were subject to the lynch, why our rooms were broken, when today the proponent of this resolution, or the government itself, admitted that the Liberal Democratic Party was right in its efforts. It is politically correct, and it is also up to the Government to appear before the National Assembly, respecting members 225 and 226, and to send its authorised representative to explain its previous behaviour and this politically incorrect gesture and legal incorrect appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2181	There is a word from MP Vladan Batic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2182	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Parliament is the supreme legislative and representative body. The government is accountable to parliament for all its decisions. The least the government should have done in this case was to have an authorised representative come and explain the reasons for the withdrawal of this agenda. For days and months back, we listened to patriotic speeches, but not by patriotic parties, but by representatives of the government who started competing with patriotic parties in alleged patriotism. The elemental minimum of respect for elected people's representatives was to explain from this place what the reason for the withdrawal of this agenda was. Every day we listen to oaths that we will never recognise Kosovo's independence, that Kosovo will remain ours forever, that there is a single government policy, and beyond, when it comes to the fate and future of Kosovo. What about this one-of-a-kind policy today? The parliaments of many countries discuss Kosovo, but not the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It would have been better if a gas deal had been withdrawn, if Russia's billion-euro gift had been withdrawn, that would have been fairer. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, do you read and listen to what Lavrov and Putin say? When they talk about the reasons for recognising the independence of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, they take us for example, so that Srebrenica doesn't happen there. This is a message from the brotherly Russia -- that Serbia committed an unprecedented crime in Srebrenica. That is why they have recognised the independence of Abkhazia and South Ossetia and thus put a deadly blow to our efforts to preserve Kosovo and Metohija's independence. After Abkhazia and South Ossetia, all those who have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence were given the full right to do so. So much so that Russia will preserve our independence of Kosovo and Metohija and so much for honoring Russia by giving it in vain, as if it were Alajbek's straw, NIS. Now you can see who's who and what's what. We LDP MPs, I as a representative and as an MP for the Democratic Party of Serbia, have told you countless times. Do not deceive the citizens of Serbia when it comes to the future of Kosovo and Metohija. Let's honestly acknowledge whether the condition for European integration, as Feith said, will also be recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence by Serbia. That's what this smells like to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2183	Thank you. The word is Mr. Marash, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2184	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we witnessed on Friday that LDP MPs had been going out for about seven to eight hours and were asking simple questions that those who were here on behalf of the Government, or the Prime Minister and the Vice President, could have given some simple answers and thus avoided the need for us to answer and to ask some answers to some questions. Today we are again trying to get from you, or you are trying to get a simple answer, which is why there is no explanation and why one item of the agenda is being downloaded in this way. I will no longer answer, but I must ask the ruling majority on behalf of the LDP – will you withdraw the gas agreement you intend to ratify in six months? Please be careful. That deal is bad, that ratification won't be good, and what you're doing is just saying you're losing the compass slowly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2185	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2186	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I also join my colleagues because I think we need to know what these circumstances have changed and why the point of Kosovo, namely the continuity and discontinuity of the state's policy towards Kosovo and Metohija, has been removed from the agenda. On the other hand, I have to be extremely open and say it didn't surprise me at all. The relationship towards Kosovo and Metohija has been shown in several ways. Let's just say, if we talk about it... I see there are far more interesting things here for the ruling coalition than Kosovo and Metohija, but I will continue anyway. So the relationship to Kosovo and Metohija is shown in several ways here in parliament, just to list some. For example, it is typical here that representatives of the ruling coalition do not attend meetings of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. Also, what the president of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia said was that, as technical reasons alone, they were not able to replace the MPs, the relationship to Kosovo and Metohija showed. It also shows how passive they are when it comes to this agenda point. In the end, it also shows that they removed this item from the agenda. I was not surprised by this and because there is a story in parliament, which can be very simply checked by the gathering of all votes, that they do not actually have a majority to vote on such an important decision. That's what this is all about. This shows that here in the ruling coalition some cracks are already emerging that threaten to threaten the ruling coalition. I'm sure they'll get bigger because they're coming up on a very difficult subject. Also, what is very important and what is to be mentioned, it did not surprise me that between what is said, what government representatives and the ruling coalition say, that their relationship with Kosovo has not actually changed in relation to the previous government and that there is continuity... What they're doing shows that it has nothing to do with continuity, that it's actually discontinuity. Here, let's say, in their resolution there's no mention of Eulex at all, no mention of such a thing in Kosovo and Metohija, and we all testify that it is present. On the other hand, Mirko Cvetkovic, prime minister (at least, as prime minister of this government), says in his interview "Politici" that the government actually wants to participate actively in the deployment of EULEX and that so far has not had the opportunity to show how much it is willing to participate. Also, it is clear that this government is made out of Manter's office and that they have to make this, this discontinuity in relation to the policy that the previous government had. It is interesting that they will not actually open the story of Kosovo and Metohija for the simple reason that they would not open the cards to the end, and because, as far as we can see, there is no unique position among our fellow MPs and mid-ministers in the government on what they actually want from Kosovo. What they show is the intention to release it down the water, and to approach it a little closer to the door of the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2187	The word is Mr. Samardzic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2188	Dear People's MPs, there was an obvious intention here of the government, one only, which is to prevent parliamentary debate on Kosovo and Metohija. It is, in fact, what parliament has the right to demand, he had it on the agenda, one way or another. We know that the DSS proposal, New Serbia and the SRS disappeared from the agenda, we know that the Rules of Procedure was violated there, but there was still this item of the agenda, although it was magically transferred to the last one. Now in these maneuvers, the point is deleted from the agenda. Obviously, there is a need to avoid parliamentary debate. At this point, it is not the most important thing that we in parliament disagree on the very scale of things. The most important thing is to hold the debate and that Serbia sees what kind of argument it has on Kosovo and Metohija. It seems that the government didn't want it, and that's why not only did she stop this debate, but she did it this way, so with one little text, without an elemental explanation. That's why the advertising of the Rules of Procedure at point 104, I think, is the most important. This is about Parliament's dignity, its fundamental right to discuss state issues, and especially the most important state issue. That's why I'd give, if I didn't owe, just one practical proposal. Why would parliament agree to this kind of game of government? I would suggest that the president of parliament take a break until an authorised representative of the government shows up and doesn't give an explanation why he did it. We can think and guess, with more or less probability, why, but we need to hear it. Why wait for this promise to come true that may not come true at all, which may well be the promise of a report on demonstrations organised by the Radical Party? We would have to, in my deep confidence, be more persistent and principled, to seek a break and immediately, as soon as possible, the appearance of a government representative to come and explain what he did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2189	Thank you. The word has Mr. Milentijevic, and then again Mr. Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2190	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for me this decision of the Government is fully expected. After all, we of the DSS have been pointing to this longer than the beginning of this session of the National Assembly, which is the seventh week. After all, and when we pointed out the gaps when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, when it comes to the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija and the continuation of continuity, we pointed out that the ruling majority has no genuine intention of putting this on the agenda and discussing it. I am going to say that this is because, in the end, it is not by chance that MPs from the ruling majority do not come to the fourth session of the Kosovo and Metohija, to come to each session, and now it is not to explain to us what it is now and why the government has withdrawn the motion for a resolution on the continuation of the state continuity towards Kosovo and Metohija. I completely agree with Mr Samardzic. I ask that the speaker of the assembly interrupt this session, that an authorised representative of the government come, and that is Minister Bogdanovic, and that is why the government has decided to take this step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2191	Mr. Milentievich, neither yours nor Mr. Samardzic's proposal can be accepted, because they are not according to the Rules of Procedure. I just can't, for the reasons you've suggested, interrupt the session and wait for the government's representatives to arrive. Besides, we have government representatives here. The information was sent to the government in line with previous comments and the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Ostojić answered his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2192	Article 225; the MP has the right to be informed, supplemental. You see, Madam President, the situation we've found ourselves in. You are part of the ruling majority. The authorities accuse the opposition, what remains on this side, of changing the policy on Kosovo and of withdrawing this proposal. We would like that to be true, because this would be proof that you have finally begun to deal realistically with Kosovo, people living there and the Serb community, which LDP has been talking about for two or three years, and which is why he really had major problems. Let me inform you, for the fourth time last night, the LDP premises in Irig were broken. That's why you have to understand our emotions about this issue and our insistence. Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, we will help you wait for the government's opinion, or an explanation of why it was withdrawn. So, on the one hand, you are accused of being traitors because you left that failed Kostunica policy that has done so much harm, the policy of continuity with Milosevic, and we say – we hope that you have abandoned it and we hope that you will lead a realistic policy in the future, and for that you will have the support of the LDP. We've done it a thousand times. Now you keep your mouth shut. That's why we have to wait for someone from the government to say if you're traitors, so you gave up, which we'll say hello, because giving up failed politics can only be plus and positive. We want to push this out, because Kosovo and what you are to LDP, and journalists, and media and activists, have done in the past few years absolutely deserve an answer, or it deserves LDP to insist on this, no matter how strange it may seem to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2193	Thank you. Mr. Free Maras has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2194	The Honorable Presidency, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Madam President, we are again in your position to create such a picture of the Assembly that we are from the opposition, as we are looking for something, and you are silent. We really must break this practice of silence that comes from the ruling coalition, and you contribute most to it. Who knows which way we're asking you to call someone from the government, he has to give us an explanation why this item of the agenda has been withdrawn. We don't have any problem because the other day when the president of the LDP from this assembly speaker asked you to accept the radical amendment when it comes to the SAA, you accepted it by hand and an agreement was made, etc. We also have no problem with you pulling this agenda item, but you have an obligation to give us an explanation. We need to know what's the explanation of your withdrawal of this agenda. I must repeat what we have already said several times: indeed, not only when it comes to February 17th, but before that, we have suffered terrible criticism for criticising the wrong policy of the previous government, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the government that dealt with unrealistic politics, especially when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. The day before and the day after the 17th of February, our rooms were burned, the entrances of our officials were attacked, or tried to break into their apartments by those who protested, the MPs on the streets were intercepted just because of this false story that we had betrayed Kosovo. We repeat, this is the defeat of Vojislav Kostunica's policy, which in the wrong way tried to play with Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. the interests of citizens and Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia. That's why I'm asking you to, in accordance with Article 98, take a break to get... I have to correct you, you just said there is no such possibility; there is, therefore, Article 2 98 - the President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion. Please speak to one of the government's representatives accordingly. Call whoever sent us this notice. Unlike last time, when there were nine lines of text and three lines of signature, we now have six rows of text and two lines of signature. Please tell us who signed this, that's Mr. Ivica Dacic, what's the explanation for why this agenda is being withdrawn.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2195	I would like to say once again that it is the right of the motion that, at any moment, until the debate is over, the point he has proposed is withdrawn from the agenda, from the procedure. Therefore, it is not under obligation, in business terms, to explain it. The second thing is that we agreed to inform the government of your objections and requests to get an explanation, and we did. There are no conditions for any consultation, given that the proposer obviously made consultations within his ranks; a cabinet session was held on the basis of which this position was adopted to withdraw the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2196	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam President, starting with the state tradition of the Serbian people and the equality of all citizens and ethnic communities in Serbia, starting with the fact that the province of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia's territory, that it has a position of essential autonomy within the sovereign state of Serbia and that from such a position of the province of Kosovo and Metohija follow the constitutional obligations of all state authorities to represent and protect Serbia's state interests in Kosovo and Metohija in all internal and foreign political relations... It is the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Do the ruling coalition and government respect that preamble obligation with such a gesture? No, I don't. That's irresponsible. Furthermore, on the other hand, the elemental order was because you suggested this item of the agenda, that at least Minister for Kosovo and Metohija would be there to answer our questions as to why this point was withdrawn from the agenda and from the procedure. For months and years, we have pointed out that the goal of all resolutions is to justify one part of the political elite in front of the other part of the political elite. Nothing else. To establish, for God's sake, some standards of patriotism, so here was a game of false patriotism. That's what's been happening to us. What are the effects of all resolutions on Kosovo and Metohija so far? None. Has independence been declared? Yes, it is. Did the world's leading forces recognize that independence? They did. Has the Constitution of Kosovo and Metohija been adopted? Yes, it is. Did Eulex come? Yes, it is. Does Kosovo access the IMF and the World Bank? Yeah. Have the largest countries opened diplomatic representations in Kosovo and Metohija? They did. And so on. This must not be the reason for the government to withdraw the motion for a resolution in this way. We wanted to say something else, which is that the only possibility and future of our countrymen in Kosovo and Metohija is to stay and live there, to provide them with an economic perspective and a much higher standard, because if there are no of our countrymen then every story about Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of Serbia is completely illusory. Secondly, something that is political demagogy, constantly ordinary citizens, this poverty of heaven, Kosovo and Metohija are calling, for God's sake, on historical responsibility -- don't enter the KPS, don't enter anywhere. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's what we wanted to say, to show and point our finger at those who, as his spokesmen, in Kosovo and Metohija, have, above all, enriched themselves from the former government's parties to the point of view that, according to many, some of them have more capital than 10m euros, and their mouths are full and calling over the fate of Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2197	The word is Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, and then Mr Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2198	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not just a very important topic for us, and this poor state of affairs in which the Serb assembly may be even more binding on such a thing. It's a shame to keep quiet about what's going on right now. The fact that we disagree or disagreed in a policy that has been conducted in the process of resolving Kosovo's problem cannot be an explanation and justification for silence and silence. The government has proposed to the assembly a debate on continuity in state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija. We wanted this debate, not because we wanted to vote for the government's proposal, but because we thought there was still room for further arguments that would allow this country to take a different political course and we believe that much more would benefit the Serb community in Kosovo and the citizens of Kosovo, so not only Serbs, but also Serbia. For us, Kosovo has always been an opportunity, not a threat and a problem that somehow the government must be at war. What has happened in this country in the last few years that has been motivated by the defence of the Serbian state in Kosovo and Metohija? We have a duty to citizens, to citizens and citizens of this country, to the Serb community in Kosovo, to Albanians in Kosovo. Only Serbia can be the one to change something concrete in Kosovo's space. Kosovo's independence was declared February 17th. Kosovo is not happier today than it was by February 17th. Through Kosovo, we can show why we are a different country and that we are a different country, and this is also an opportunity for the ruling coalition. We cannot accept this impotence, Madam President, which we recognize in your finding that the motionary has the right to withdraw the agenda. This isn't any part of the agenda. The least important thing is how much we have paid by representing those political attitudes that are now silently and so shyly identifying at least part of the ruling coalition. You are withdrawing this item of the agenda because there is no agreement in the ruling coalition regarding the policy that this country wants to lead to the process of resolving Kosovo's problem. When was this parliament discussing an initiative that will be represented by the president of this country and the foreign minister at the UN General Assembly? When did we talk about it? Whose policy are they leading there? We said we had to leave those tracks of the blind track that the state's been moving for the last 20 years. For us, the debate on Kosovo is a necessity. It is not enough to hang another function in a vice-presidential post and to conclude any coalition to get an argument for a better policy. We need an honest conversation here in the Assembly. This isn't a story of responsibility. We won't get anything from pointing fingers at each other and looking for those responsible for the chaos in Kosovo, but this is the story of a political vision and we have the right to present that political vision. We didn't shut up when we were lonely, and now it seems to us that there are many more MPs sharing that political vision. Through the partnership between Belgrade and Pristina, the problem must be solved in Kosovo and Metohija, through the partnership between Belgrade and Pristina. We never said Kostunica was responsible for what happened in Kosovo. We have never rubed our hands satisfied with the fact that Kosovo has declared independence without our government having succeeded in something, but now we must look for new ways to solve this problem, because the problem has not been solved. We have heard here so many times last week the same attitudes from the dominant party in the ruling coalition and most opposition parties. We heard that, but now that we have to discuss Kosovo and Metohija, we have to make arguments that we do not agree to. There's going to be politics somewhere else, it's going to be formulated somewhere else. You know what, that's what we didn't let Kostunica do. He always went before lawmakers in parliament, before calling for consultations. Minister Samardzic came to us, he was not comfortable with the talks. I don't think they were rude conversations, but we had different attitudes, we talked about it, so we went out here and we discussed it in parliament, so we voted. If the ruling coalition gives up this debate then let it tell us – we withdraw the proposal, we want to consult further, we don't like the idea of voting over Kosovo and Metohija, give us the opportunity to correct some mistake we made when we came up with a proposal we didn't talk about. It's something that's normal and, of course, every time they're so important to the state, we have to find a compromise. We want to do this, but this idea of silently getting over it is out of the question. The point of the agenda is important in front of us, we want this point to end as soon as possible, we want to vote, we want to ratify the SAA, we want to ratify these agreements that will practically open those financial resources that we need, but in five years someone will go to the Assembly and say, we are withdrawing from the debate of the energy agreement from five years ago. That's why we think we should insist on this right now. Let a representative of the government show up, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija who receives the salary to sit in front of MPs, who was on the Committee that was not held and to say – we withdraw the agenda proposal because new consultations are needed, because there is not a majority for a policy on continuity, because some see little continuity, others see too much continuity. We need a new vision, and we need to formulate that vision together. We'll vote for something like that, but we won't. We haven't kept our mouths shut in the past, we don't think we should keep quiet now that we see that silence is your confirmation of the correctness of our policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2199	The word is Mr Markicevic, and then Hope Kolundži.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2200	President-in-Office, fellow MPs, I appeal to Article 226 and I ask you that the time I will spend quoting this member is not counting at this time. I will not quote this article because of you, President, I do not doubt that you know the provisions of this article, not because of fellow MPs, but because of citizens who are watching right now. Therefore, Article 226 reads - the MP has the right to request information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials, etc. Madam President, at the consultations I took part in, when the president of New Serbia and the head of the New Serbia Parliament Club were not present, I really believed (and at this point still believe you) that the disappearance of the proposal of 108 MPs of the National Assembly concerning the Resolution on Kosovo and Metohija was a matter of vacuum until you were elected, or enthroned in the chair you are sitting in. After what happened, I'm really starting to doubt it. So the government's proposal to discuss Kosovo, the continuity of state policy, is withdrawn without a word. What do we from New Serbia, New Serbia MPs, think, what do the citizens of Serbia, the Serbs in Kosovo, who, believe, were waiting for this item of the agenda, at this point might think? If you or don't have a majority, you don't have a consistent policy, a single policy in the ruling coalition, or you don't care about Kosovo and Metohija as a problem. The very first item of this agenda, the SAA, is so connected with this last point, the Kosovo topic and the Metohija, that we MPs can really think now and believe that this amendment, which has also been submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, has been so eagerly accepted by the Democratic Party, that is, the head of the DS parliamentary group, Mrs Nada Kolundzija, is an ordinary mask for Serbian citizens. What this right-hand side of me is, in the transfer of the left, empty, that's what I'm talking about. Accordingly, I admit that you created a climate of tolerance and trust and reached agreement at the consultations of the heads of parliament that whenever a problem arises in the Assembly, you will interrupt the Assembly and schedule consultations to agree, please, by article, I think that, 98, you will interrupt the Assembly and schedule consultations of the heads of parliament to agree on what to do next. After that, if you really stay in this position to refuse, I don't know what's left of the opposition MPs, but this 226th, and we continue this session with a debate on Kosovo and Metohija, by morning, however many of us are left of the opposition, we are prepared to do so. We don't want to, don't honor us later that we're obstructing the congregation. Please interrupt the session, let's sit down and make a deal as people. Otherwise, we'll refer to Article 226. I am informing all citizens of Serbia that we are doing this because the government of Mirko Cvetkovic is silent, without reason or notice, the Kosovo and Metohija topics have been withdrawn from the agenda. I ask you once again to comply with Article 98. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2201	Mrs. Kolundjia, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2202	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, of course the theme of Kosovo and Metohija is the most important topic, one of the most important topics for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and for all citizens of Serbia, precisely because it is a subject for which there is a need to hear different opinions and to agree on opinions in order to achieve the highest degree of agreement on what is a state policy on the issue. On this issue, from the very beginning of this session, we have several controversial situations that have been caused by error, failure, some have arisen for some other reasons. Therefore, due to the need to carry out consultations on this subject, because of the fact that there is an initiative of MPs on the same subject, it is necessary to prepare this topic of the session in a way that will satisfy the interests and needs of the Serbian state to reach agreement on such an important issue as is possible, on the one hand, and to overcome the problem that has arisen as a result of the fact that a group of MPs' declaration is not put on the agenda. Please understand that this is not neglecting the subject, that this is not an attempt to avoid debate. On the contrary, this is an attempt to get into the debate, with the greatest effort to hold talks about it previously in order to achieve maximum consent, as it has done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2203	Thank you. The head of the SPS parliamentary group Branko Ruzic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2204	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, precisely on the line of what my predecessors said, Mr Jovanovic and Mrs Kolundzija, all of us sitting at consultations with the President of Parliament were aware of the need for a higher degree of consensual approach to the proposal for a resolution on the continuity of state policy in Kosovo and Metohija. The resolution proposed by the authorising officer in some way did not correspond to the part of the opposition parties, and for this very reason we have pointed out on several occasions the need to carry out further consultations in order to avoid the situation in which we are voting on the issue of a couple of excellencies, which is precisely the policy of the continuity of the Serbian state in the field of maintaining the integrity and sovereignty of Kosovo and Metohija is reflected in the fact that the larger number of MPs, those in position or opposition, are being supported by one such text. I think we'll be able to get out of this situation if we have a good will. I think it's very important for the public, and I'm sorry I didn't say at first that I was reporting in accordance with Article 101. Rules of Procedure, I want to replicate, because on several occasions the SPS president and the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic, has been mentioned. So, according to the internal structure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic is someone who signs acts that come here to the Assembly. It can be said that it is the only objective circumstance or objective fault that links it to this text which means it is withdrawn from the procedure of the Proposal for a resolution on the continuity of state policy in Kosovo and Metohija. I think this is an act that comes in favor of new agreements and further consultations precisely with representatives of opposition parties, so that we can again – because, in the previous period, we have had a number of resolutions when the Socialist Party of Serbia as an opposition party has always supported these resolutions – in one serious, serious way, we have approached this problem and voted in favour of the agreed text of the resolution on the continuity of state policy in Kosovo and Metohija. What we can argue about is EULEX, treated one way or another. In this proposal made by the government, it is clearly defined and clearly defined by the Serbian government and I do not believe that there is a need for any broader politicisation of this problem, regardless of which is legitimate for opposition representatives. I think it is much more important to bring to an end the debate on these agenda points, on credit arrangements that are of paramount importance to the citizens of Serbia, not at this level how important Kosovo and Metohija are, but to move on to the subject of Kosovo and Metohija, I think it is very important to bring this agenda to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2205	Thank you. The word is Mr. Aligrudic. Before that, I'll just let you know. You have accepted Milan Vukovic's resignation as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, which found that the resignation was the case of Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, and I propose that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, 2 and 3 of the same law, determine the end of the term of office of the People's Parliament. In accordance with Article 88(2) and Article 2(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term "For European Serbia - Boris Tadic" was terminated before the election of MP Milan Vukovic was elected. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. The word is Mr. Aligrudic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2206	Articles 101 and 226. What Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic said earlier is essentially true. He said something to be heard about a pay phone in the Serbian Parliament and in that part alone, of course, I formally support it, because he was talking about playing hide-and-seek, about hiding the truth from the citizens, about what the programs are with which you went to the elections, what is what is realized after the elections and what is the policy that the government is, and the government is what runs the state, and the ruling majority is conducted in the state. That's what's true about all of it. I can at least have a little respect for my honest attitude, and Mr. Jovanovic brought it here, and LDP MPs, one honest attitude. With that attitude, I completely disagree, I think it is wrong, I think it is deeply opposed to the interest of Serbian citizens. I think it's something, not to think, but I'm sure, which my mind, and especially my heart can never accept. The problem is that those who exercise power in this country are obviously hiding from Serbian citizens that a good part of them thinks exactly as Cedomir Jovanovic, and for some reason cannot say that. The reason is very simple, calculated with the number of votes in the state of Serbia. Calculating with the number of votes in the election is actually nothing more than playing the will of the citizens. That's exactly what you're trying to do. We're in our performance, the DSS has been very correct and consistent so far with what we're talking about. Maybe that makes Mr. Jovanovic stupid. It may seem foolish to Mr Ostojic, but defending Serbia's territorial integrity is very important. These people say that, they say openly, they say that there's another priority bar and they define it in a different way and I repeat, they can't agree with it, and my heart can't agree with that either. The problem is that you who laugh at me now, what I said, think what they think, and don't dare say it. Go out here and say it publicly, because many of you in a private conversation with me even during the last call have called it the same, but not for the Assembly's pay phone and not for the media shows. Say it and tell the citizens of Serbia, then call the elections, and let's see what Serbian citizens vote for. Is that the policy to be voted for? We here have to make every effort to explain to the citizens of Serbia what you are deforming as a policy of Serbia, up to the fine finesse, to explain why EULEX is important, which is why opposition to this mission is important, which is why at the moment it should not be voted for a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and that same agreement that the Democratic Party of Serbia has made a great effort to find itself at all during its signing, ratification (and everyone knows it very well, birds on the branch and small children), which is why it is important that it is not now. That's what we wanted to talk about before these elections, and that's what we're talking about after these elections; that's the topic you're trying to avoid and plant on us some other stories, you're talking about a consulting opinion in front of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, you're gathering votes at the UN, which is a big question whether they're going to get together. No, we are not going to tear down any insistence by the Serbian state authorities to protect Serbia's interest, even that attempt. We have no reason. So, there's got to be something that we know about, but then why choose a worse path, a worse path than the one that's offered as a better one? Why is something less effective than what would be more effective? Why do we pretend to be deaf and blind to statements made by officials representing certain institutions formed by the international community, such as Eulex, and that they came here to steal some of our territory? Please, that's what people have openly said, they support the constitution of the Republic of Kosovo, they support 40 laws stemming from the constitution of the Republic of Kosovo. It's their mission. We are still talking to EU members and the Council of Ministers as if the decision does not exist, as if, at the very least, there is no need for us to discuss it with them. We didn't say anything else, we didn't call for any chaos, we just called for a serious conversation on the subject. Without this conversation, we cannot go seriously further because all the problems that arise from all this will wait for us at the first next step, as a state, and especially those that have taken responsibility for the authorities. Unless, as I said, they don't think what Chada Jovanovic is thinking, and at this point they can't say it. Then it will also show up at some point. A man really tells you right, come out with something, come out with some attitude. The attitude that you have expressed in the motion for a resolution that you have withdrawn, that attitude, for those who know how to read between the lines (in any case we will help those who do not know, so they will read easily), is actually the attitude of giving up the fight for territorial integrity; it remains only ad verbis, nothing exists in real political life when it comes to it. It just doesn't work that way. That way we can't protect our own interests. So define yourself what you're going to do. You need to be open. We really expect you to call this session that we asked for, so let's see at that session what the position is, whether there's compromise or not. I believe he's gone, because these key questions are not the same as we are. And, well, someone's gonna appreciate it the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2207	The word is Mr. Ivan Andric; no, you have withdrawn. Well, then the word has Vladimir Milentievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2208	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to members 143 and 226. I can understand the heads of the parliamentary groups of individual parties of the ruling coalition that made the argument that this item of the agenda was withdrawn. I can't possibly understand the President of the Assembly, I don't agree with that answer she gave, quote, that she "has no right" to invite a government representative on this agenda point to explain to us why the agenda point was withdrawn. Article 143: "The legislator shall have the right to withdraw the draft law from the procedure until the finalisation of the draft law at the session of the National Assembly." Item 2: "The National Assembly, on a reasoned proposal from the proposer, can decide to withdraw a certain point", and so on, "on condition that the sittings are attended by at least 126 MPs". First, we don't have a proposal for a proposal, and secondly, we don't have 126 MPs. For these reasons, Madam President, I am not satisfied with your answer, so again I ask that the motionary give us his views and reasons why the item of the agenda is so important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2209	Mr. Rangelovic has given up. The word is Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2210	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would point to another dimension and the adverse consequences of the withdrawal of this part of the day's work. Let's put ourselves in a position of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, because the term "come on" has become a synonym for working in this parliament. Imagine how they feel today – sad, unhappy, disappointed, discouraged. They waited for days, weeks and months for this pay phone to give them hope, to show them they had a future, to have some perspective, to expect better days. They were patiently waiting for this point to be found on the agenda, to end the six-week wait, to quieten their passions after the arrest of Radovan Karadzic, to restart parliament's session, to finish the debate on two agreements, the biggest in Serbia's history of all time, and beyond, so that their life, their fate, the fate of their children and their future. Then, today, they were waiting for this item to withdraw from the agenda without any explanation. It's a bad message to them. That doesn't indicate any hope, some perspective, some future, some happiness. It is, on the contrary, an invitation for them to head for Serbia again. I always, perhaps with a little pathetic, remember what Danton wrote to Robespeer a long time ago, that it's not a problem when people move from one end to the other, or even from one country to another, but it's a terrible problem and it's a terrible pain because they can't get away, the country, the sunrise, the graves of ancestors passed on to the soles of shoes. Many more of them are chaming in some kind of collective centers. Because of them, their hopes and expectations, this shouldn't have happened today. We will insist on an explanation of why it was done.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2211	Mr. Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2212	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 2 and Article 98. I just want to inform the MPs that the LDP parliamentary group will not continue to report on this issue. We accept Mrs. Kolundgia's explanation. We expect that consultations on this issue will be held and that this debate will be made possible as soon as possible, but in a manner appropriate. We will remind again that the reasons for this government's conduct were the reasons why this parliament fell in its first session, that this manner continues today. Regardless of all the other explanations, we accept this as a confirmation of the correctness of our stance and our policy on Kosovo, which we have insisted on for so long. I repeat once again, we will not continue to report for a word, and the consultation and the debate on this issue are expected as soon as possible on the agenda of the assembly session.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2213	Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2214	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 226. The other day, I asked you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, for information on Serbia's presentation on the official British Embassy site without Kosovo and Metohija. At that time, we realized that, besides the English, 20 (of the 27) EU member states had violated their founding act, so-called. Independent Kosovo and Metohija. In addition, they show the absence of any diplomatic tactics. They demonstrated legal violence, and now they show haughtiness in what is called diplomatic communication. What are we doing now? In fact, we're helping them help us. We ourselves give up the debate on Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia's highest legislative body. The current government sort of runs double accounting within which Serbia has words, but, for God's sakes, not in works, so it also put this resolution on Kosovo and Metohija in the last place, all to agree. On the other hand, as citizens of Serbia, we have already agreed and that it is a consensus guaranteed by the Constitution, which gives us the right to live in a sovereign state with inviolable borders. What have we actually been doing all this time? We asked to get along. In the meantime, you have violated the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and we are accused of obstruction. The result - there is no story of Kosovo and Metohija. If you really wanted to agree, you should have read the Constitution, and if you find it difficult, then at least a proposal for a decision of 108 MPs, which could have become a resolution of the National Assembly. I have to quote... For the unlisted, 108 MPs proposed to the National Assembly on 16 June on the protection of sovereignty and territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 1 and 2 of that proposal, I quote, it reads: "The UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon's initiative to legalise the UN-sponsored mission, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia particularly points out that full respect for international law and full respect for the UN Charter and the Helsinki Final Act as basic international documents on which the international order rests. The Republic of Serbia insists on respecting Security Council Resolution 1244, which guarantees Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity. According to Resolution 1244, on the presence and deployment of international forces in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as on the objectives of their presence in the province, the UN Security Council decides. Secondly, starting from Security Council Resolution 1244 and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia disagrees and does not accept that a mission is being deployed on the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the province of Kosovo and Metohija, under UN administration. Third, the resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia of 26 December 2007 concluded that the establishment of the proposed EU mission to implement the rejected Ahtisaari plan would constitute an act of jeopardising sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia." From everything, it turns out that we've been busy here and, in fact, the goal was to pull this point off the agenda and sort of take Kosovo and Metohija off the list. We in New Serbia can't agree with this. We don't think this point can come out of the agenda, but this important issue needs to be devoted to a whole session.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2215	All right, just one more time: from the agenda draws the assembly with at least 126 votes, and from the procedure the promoter. Mr. Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2216	Dear People's MPs, the DSS parliamentary group believes that no consultation should be taken on any possible resolution until the explanation of the government's authorised representative is heard why this was done. Any commitment is a clean risk, given the experience so far, the experience where the Rules of Procedure was violated and where fair play was violated. So, the first argument, and then we'll decide what to do with it, whether to consult or not. A parliamentary debate must be held in one way or another and an explanation may be a cause for such a debate. I can, possibly, consults, but we'll see what kind of explanation it will be. Finally, we do not give up on the proposal of 108 MPs. We count, however, that this motion for a resolution will come to the agenda, even in the next Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2217	We continue according to the application for a word in a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 4 to 14. The word is Mr. Nenad Popovic. He's not here. Just to let you know who is on this list, regardless of what MPs are not in the hall: Dušanka Plecevic, Vladan Jeremic, Milet Poscurica, Srboljub Zivanovic and Gordana Pop-Lazic. On this list is Djordje Milicevic, but the SPS-JS is out of time. Since the list of parliamentary groups has no longer been declared a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Before I conclude a unique search on the drafts of the law under items 4 - 14 of the agenda, does Dr. Diana Dragutinovic want a word? Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2218	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there have been different questions. I will group questions according to whether they were directly focused on the subject or not. Although a large number of those MPs who asked questions do not see in this room, I will briefly look back at each of the questions asked. I would like to thank the Members of the People for their extremely useful suggestions. I would also like to apologize to them because I noticed that a very common observation was that the date for signing the agreement had long passed, and that date for signing the agreement should also be the date for the effectiveness of the international financial agreement. In a direct correspondence between representatives of the Republic of Serbia and the World Bank, the date of effectiveness of these agreements means eight out of eleven, moved to 20 December 2008. So, so much for the date of effectiveness of international financial contracts. Also, different figures were heard regarding the value of these international financial contracts. Whether it is essential or not, for the sake of precision, I would say that eleven projects worth 286.000,000 euros in international financial contracts. The government also adopted two additional guarantees. The two additional guarantees refer to the Gazela bridge and to the highway and bypass around Belgrade, worth 140,00,000 euros, all of which will amount to 420,000,000 euros. If that hasn't already arrived at the Assembly, he's on his way. How important are these projects for Serbia's economy? It is about infrastructure projects, meaning, building highways, investing in health, investing in regional development, investing in removing environmental damage. These are usually projects whose effects cannot be seen in a relatively short period of time. As for the conditions under which the Republic of Serbia is in charge, there were many MPs who criticised the conditions under which the Republic of Serbia is in charge. I would just like to remind you that the Republic of Serbia, as well as many other countries, is a member of the World Bank and other international financial institutions. An individual may like it or not, but the conditions applicable to all countries that are members of international financial institutions must apply to Serbia. This refers to the terms of interest rates. Someone may not like the variable interest rate, but as the variable interest rate applies to the Czech Republic and Slovakia, it also applies to Serbia. Someone may not like the use of the terms of margins, but it's a normal term in the banking dictionary, because there's the price of money and the price of service, the price of service and the processing of credit, control, etc. Also, someone might think these contracts don't put an equal footing on the company. That is not true, and secondly, it applies to every other country, Hungary, Romania and the Czech Republic, including Serbia. In any case, I would like to say that these credit conditions are favourable, so that the interest rate at which Serbia would be in debt on the international financial market, precisely because of its credit risk, which BB minus, would be significantly higher. These are long-term loans, with a big grace period, so these are favourable loans. How much do Serbian citizens pay for that? Serbian citizens regularly pay for it; since 2001 there has been a budget of appraisals every year and it is called credit payments and interest rates payments. Since 2001, the Republic of Serbia has fully regularly, even before time, fulfilled all its obligations to international financial institutions. Someone said, I think Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic would like to see the effects of this borrowing. But these are the loans that focus on concrete projects. So, nothing is easier than to see whether the bridge is reconstructed or not, whether or not the road is made, whether new buildings have been built within the clinic center or not. To remind you, a large number of these new international agreements are prefixed - extra. This means that those in the previous regime were financed by the International Development Association, so they were completely unambiguous, and it was not estimated that everything was done in procedures they would not be continued. So I believe in world rules, I know we have a controller, and that's the World Bank, and I believe it will be successfully completed. These projects are unfortunately not related to Kosovo and Metohija. So these are projects that are related to other purposes. But I really couldn't say that the Republic of Serbia's budget was not issued towards Kosovo and Metohija. Only last year, 45 billion dinars were spent for various purposes in health, education and social protection, which is about 2% of the social product. Given the number of Serbian nationalities in Kosovo, you can conclude whether they are modest means. I apologize if I forgot something, but I would not use this opportunity to comment on Serbia's macroeconomic situation. It is what it is and is completely identical to the macroeconomic situation of a large number of countries in the region. We are a growing and developing country. For every country that grows and develops, it is normal to temporarily have imbalances. As far as the budget is concerned, he's planned for the deficit. The deficit is no shame. After all, both economic theory and the practice of countries show what a cautious state is. Therefore, a country that behaves cautiously should not have a deficit greater than 3% of the social product, and it will be smaller in Serbia. The deficit is still not financed by credit sources. The deficit in the Republic of Serbia is financed, above all, as a result of the privatisation revenues achieved in the past and as a result of certain levels of the state that achieved surplus in the previous period. So there's no new government debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-08-0.u2219	Let me thank Mrs. Diana Dragutinović on your behalf and on your behalf. I find that there are conditions for us to conclude a joint review of the bill's proposals for items 4 - 14 of the agenda, which I do. Given that the government has withdrawn from the procedure a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the continuity of state policy in relation to Kosovo and Metohija, which was scheduled to be considered the 15th item of the agenda of this session, I conclude that we have completed the debate on all points of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 95(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have obtained the conditions to set a voting term, or voting day, which will be Tuesday, 9 September 2008 at 10.00 p.m. As a day for voting on the agenda of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008 I set Tuesday, 9 September 2008 at 10.00 hours. Thank you for your work and for your cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Djelic, allow us to continue the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 210 MPs attend the session. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly, in order to allow his participation in the work. You have been presented with the RIK report on the allocation of the mandate to the MP. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate were met with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament finds confirmation of the mandate to the MP. On the basis of the RIK report and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Bojana Stanojevic, elected from the electoral list for European Serbia - Boris Tadic. I'm asking the MP to come in. Congratulations on behalf of the MPs and on your own behalf. I also remind you that Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 137 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 126 MPs are present and that there are conditions for continuing the work of the National Assembly. We're moving on to a decision on agenda points. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand, since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the draft law, and I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand, in principle. For 139 against 26, of the 165 MPs present. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment, with the correction of MP Tomislav Nikolic, who proposed that a new Article 2 be added after Article 1, as the amendment, with correction, was accepted by the representative of the motionor Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Science and Technological Development, at the National Assembly session, and by the Committee on European Integration, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with correction, to be legal. Since the National Assembly has accepted the draft law in principle, we are moving to a decision on the amendment of Verica Radeta. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The amendment reads, "Article 1. The bill is also amended as follows: "The Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand, signed in Luxembourg on 29 April 2008, original in Bulgarian, Spanish, Czech, Danish, German, Estonian, Greek, English, French, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Finnish, Swedish and Serbian. ''The government has accepted the amendment, the Committee on European Integration has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 154, 17 of the 171 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand, in general. For 140, against 28, of 168 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a bill confirming the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Transition Agreement on Trade and Trade between the European Community, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand, since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Transitional Agreement on Trade and Trade Affairs between the European Community, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand, in principle. For 142, against 28, one MP, of the 171 MPs, did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the bill, as a whole. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Transitional Agreement on Trade and Trade Affairs between the European Community, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other hand, in general. For 140, against 28, of 168 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a bill confirming the Transition Agreement on Trade and Trade between the European Community, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Saradics in the Area of Oil and Gas Economy, since the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the draft law, and I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the field of oil and gas economy, in principle. For 212, against 22, they did not vote four out of 238 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MPs: Cedomir Jovanovic, Dr Vladan Batić and Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Daniel Petrovic together. The amendment reads as follows: 'Article 1. The bill is deleted. '"The government proposes that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Industry proposes that the amendment should not be accepted. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 204, a abstentioned one, did not vote 11 out of 237 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs submitted to the 2nd amendment: Dr Vladan Batić and Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Daniel Petrovic together. The amendment reads, "Article 2 is deleted. '"The government proposes that the amendment be rejected. The Committee on Industry proposes that the amendment should not be accepted. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 202, 15 of the 238 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the area of oil and gas economy, in general. For 214, against 22, one of the 237 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the area of oil and gas economy. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONSERVATION OF THE BOOK OF SERBIA AND THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR REFERENCE AND Development As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the draft law, and before I move to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105, paragraph 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement ("Addditional financing of the Transport Reconstruction Project") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in principle. For 146, they did not vote four out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement ("Addditional financing of the Transport Reconstruction Project") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. For 149, one of the 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement ("Addditional financing of the Transport Reconstruction Project") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We move to item 5 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE COURT OF CERTIFICATION OF THE GAZEL GARRANGEMENT CONCERNING THE REGULARITY OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESTICATION BANK Since the National Assembly has conducted a unique search on the draft law and before moving to a decision, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "Gazel Bridge Resuscitation", in principle. For 149, of 149 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the bill, as a whole. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "Gazel Bridge Resuscitation" in general. For 148, he did not vote one out of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "Gazel Bridge Resuscitation". We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONSERVATION LAW OF THE GOVERNMENT BOOK BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESTICATION BANK REHABILITATION OF ROADS AND MOSTS B-2 Since the National Assembly has conducted a single search of the bill, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank Road Rehabilitation and Bridges B-2, in principle. Three out of the 149 MPs voted for 146. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank Road Rehabilitation and Bridges B-2, in general. For 149, of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank Road Rehabilitation and Bridges B-2. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONSERVATION OF THE FUNDING OF THE FUNDING OF THE PROJECT OF ENERGETIC EfficientITY OF SERBIA) Between the Republic of Serbia and the International Association for Development, since the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the draft law, and before the transition to decision-making, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Funding Agreement ("Addditional financing of the Energy Efficiency Project for Serbia") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Development Association, in principle. For 139, 10 of the 149 MPs were not voted. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the financing agreement ("Addditional financing of the energy efficiency project for Serbia") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Association for Development, in general. For 138, they did not vote two out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a bill confirming the Funding Agreement ("Addditional financing of the Energy Efficiency Project for Serbia") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Association for Development. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONSERVATION OF THE SERVANT LAW (“ ADDITIONAL FINANCE OF THE ENGETIC EfficientITY FOR SERBIA”) Between the Republic of Serbia and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR REFERENCE AND Development As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the draft law, and before the transition to decision-making, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(3), point 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement ("Addditional financing of the energy efficiency project for Serbia") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in principle. For 139, one of the 140 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement ("Addditional financing of the energy efficiency project for Serbia") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. For 140 out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement ("Addditional financing of the Energy Efficiency Project for Serbia") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONSERVATION OF THE GOVERNMENTAL AND RESOURCES Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the INTERNATIONAL REFERENCE AND RURAL BANK Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(6), Article 105(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement ("Addditional financing of the rehabilitation project of the irrigation and disposal system") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in principle. For 139 MPs, against one, of 140 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement ("Addditional financing of the rehabilitation project of the irrigation and disposal system") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. For 140 MPs, of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement ("Addditional Funding of the Rehabilitation of the Water and Disposal System Project") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (“PRODUCT OF THE REFORME OF THE POLJOPRIVREDE IN TRANSITION”) between the Republic of Serbia and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR REFERENCE AND DEPARTMENT AS THE National Assembly has carried out a joint single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(6), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement ("Programme Reform in Transition") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in principle. For 140, of 140 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the bill, as a whole. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement ("Programme Reform in Transition") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. For 140, of 140 MPs. The National Assembly adopted a bill confirming the loan agreement ("Project of Reform of Agriculture in Transition") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We move on to the 11th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Transition grant agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in the possession of the GLOBAL FOND'S IMPLEMENTATION Agency, since the National Assembly carried out a joint single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 of Article 3(6), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Global Environment Protection Fund grant agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as the Agency for the Implementation of the Global Environment Fund, in principle. Three out of 140 MPs voted for 137. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Global Environment Protection Fund grant agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as the Agency for the Implementation of the Global Environment Fund, as a whole. For 140 out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a bill confirming the grant agreement from the Global Environment Fund (“Programme Reform of Agriculture in Transition”) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as the Agency for the Implementation of the Global Environment Fund. We move on to the 12th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the FUNDING Agreement (Project "REGIONAL RETECTION OF BORS") between the Republic of Serbia and the International Association for Development After the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search on the bill, and before the transition to decision-making, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I would like to remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law on confirming the Funding Agreement (the Regional Development of Bora Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Development Association, in principle. For 138, they did not vote two out of 140 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the bill, as a whole. I am putting to the vote the draft law on confirming the Funding Agreement (the Regional Development of Bora Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Development Association, in general. For 140 out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a bill to confirm the Funding Agreement (the Regional Development of Bora Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Association for Development. We are moving to the 13th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Project 'REGIONAL RURAL Development OF BORA') between the Republic of Serbia and the Inter-European Bank for Reconstruction and Development After the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, under Article 105(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (the Regional Development of Bora Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in principle. For 138, they did not vote two out of 140 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (the Regional Development of Bora Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. For 139, one of the 140 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (the Regional Development of Bora Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE APPROVAL OF THE FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTION BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION BANK FOR THE CIDIC CENTER/A Since the National Assembly has conducted a single search on the draft law, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(6), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for Project Clinical Centres/A, in principle. For 139, one of the 140 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since amendments have not been submitted to the proposal for this law, we approach the vote on the bill, as a whole. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for Project Clinical Centres/A, in general. For 140 out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank for Project Clinical Centres/A. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, to which MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Verica Radeta, at a session on July 17, 2008, at 15.55 p.m., indicated that the president of the National Assembly was injured by article 194. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether a member of 194 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. For one, against 131 abstention one, did not vote 7 out of 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there is no injured member of 194. Rules of Procedure. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, at a session on 5 September 2008, at 10:15 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 194. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether a member of 194 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. For 24, against 113, three of the 140 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that there is no injured member of 194. Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Micic, at a session on 5 September 2008, at 16.27 p.m., pointed to a violation of Articles 83 and 104 and regarding Article 194. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For 24, against 113, three of the 140 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not an injured member of 83rd and 104th and in relation to Article 194. Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Micic, at a session on 5 September 2008, at 17.35 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 83. Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide if an injured member is 83. Rules of Procedure. For 22, against 113, five out of 140 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not an injured member of 83. Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. We don't have business opportunities to plead on the Rules of Procedure today at this session.
