ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1765	Madam President, the Presidency, dear colleagues, firstly I would like to express my satisfaction that we are already working on the agenda the second day and we are dealing with what the Assembly, under the Constitution, should deal with – by passing laws and ratification of contracts. Today we are discussing a document which, I would say, is of an economic and trade character and, as such, should have a professional analysis, to highlight the advantages or possible reserves around the document. However, we all know that it has wider significance, because after Serbia's long-standing stalemate, whether it is going to be in Europe or not, when, whether it is going to be lagging or not, I have the impression that the last elections and all this is happening to the dilemma have been removed. Serbia has defined itself as European integration in free elections and in public opinion. There's no hesitation about it anymore. Even, we have heard, and parties that have long had large reserves are also ready to support European integration with, of course, certain reserves, amendments etc. But what is important, what I want to say, is, I would say, an absolute understanding of all the political factors that our integration into the EU has no alternative. Now we have to see how we approach it. Of course, the problem is how we understand today's world. It's been known for a long time that nothing is as strong as ideas when the time comes. The idea of European unification is very old. She reported back during the French Revolution. But then they were national economies, and they were in line with a strong state framework and Europe was on its way through the national states. Today, a united Europe is not the result of some ideological story, it is not the result of a project that would have a purely ideological political character. It is a result of the necessity of economic development, especially technology. Europe has come together because it is known that no one can be competitive on the world market today if it is less than 100 million consumers. It dictates the economy, it dictates technology, it dictates the modern development of the world. That is why Europe is uniting. All European countries did not accidentally understand and understand and engage in the project. We have lost a lot of time, not to go into the analysis of why this happened, but at last that part is over and we are now ahead of the first steps of EU accession. I will not talk about economic advantages, said Vice-President Djelic, other speakers. I want to talk about something about the cultural, political, social development of the country. Nothing can reverse a society like isolation. In other words, we need to know that cultural development is the result of people's mutual dialogue. This applies to trade, and to the economy, applies, first of all, to culture and politics. If we understand that the only barbarity is indigenous, who needs nothing and no contact with others, then we have to take care of it. Culture comes from contacts and interactions. Joining the EU means just that – open doors, contacts with different cultures, different history, different economies. It enriches everyone. Of all things, I am most pleased that not only economic standards, but also the political, cultural and social standards of the developed world will have to be applied here. There are three elements there. There are citizens who are eager and busy, and freedom, and rights and security. There is also a society that also wants progress, but also has conservative institutions and elements that slow down its development. And there is a state, which, in my opinion, has given the most resistance and I fear that, regardless of the political will and wishes of the government, through the administration and various state institutions, through their momentum, we will have the greatest resistance. It will all be mastered by our joining the EU. Of course, we can view this question as historic. There is no longer any illusion that Serbia belongs, in its geopolitical position, in its historic-cultural position, to the community of European peoples. But that's what we need to do honestly and consciously, and to contribute ourselves, to our cultural identity, to our values, to the wealth of Europe and to this world that we want to work with. Today we live in a very fast time. Unfortunately, we weren't always aware of that. The time we have isn't ours, but it's time for citizens, individuals, people and everyone here lost time just means lost time for the citizens. This requires rational work. We have also heard suggestions here that we will adopt all the laws that are necessary, which are also required of us by the Council of Europe, which requires us to join the EU, in an accelerated rhythm and that, with great agreement, we will co-operate. Of course, in order for one project to have great success, it is very important that it has a broad consensus within our society. I believe that even those political groups that have had the resistance to association with Europe will eventually begin to see the benefits and advantages of such a project and will face less and less resistance. Each government, if it means good to itself, has to conduct a dialogue with the opposition, must nurture the opposition. That's why I'm saying that at all times we're co-operating here on an equal footing and that we respect the rights and those who don't have a majority to make a certain decision. Every critical remark only uses one project. I believe that, following the ratification of this agreement and the one we are going to talk about tomorrow, we will go through the accelerated integration of our country not only in Europe, but in the rest of the world and in better co-operation and with other countries, such as Russia and others, and not just with Europe. It means our openness to the world and that is the source of our future. That's what I wanted to say about this, with the pleasure of moving in the right direction, that we started our car from the blind track we were on at one point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1766	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Velimir Ilic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1767	Dear People's MPs, it is my pleasure to listen to Professor Micunovic tell us a nice story about Europe, and we are thrilled that Europe will accept us, and that culture will develop, and that we will take care of the economy, etc., but, Mr Micunovic, this Europe has taken a great price for what you are talking about now – 15% of the territory. No one in Europe has paid for such a ticket, and it is political violence, which was made against Serbia. So please, you're an influential man, you're president of the DS Political Council, which is the holder of the government here, you have daily contacts with the European Community, why don't you fight to appreciate us, to respect us, to understand us as partners and not to take away some of our territory? It's humiliating for a people. It's nice, and we want to go to Europe, and we'll all, it's nothing controversial, and the opposition and position, but understand, the EU is violently taking 15% of the territory of the sovereign state of Serbia without the blessing of the Security Council and doing what it wants. Our politicians who have contacted them have humiliated us, humiliated us, underestimated us, that Serbia has never experienced this in its history. Of course, now they're setting us up with additional conditions, and now you're going to recognise this beautiful Europe independent of Kosovo, to deliver to them whoever it wants. Why don't you ask them, when you have contacts, what kind of court is that in The Hague when Haradinaj's greatest terrorist let go, Orica let go? What does that look like? That's where our generals sat who did their duty, were at work and did their job. So, please, don't be so euphoric, what we talked about yesterday, talk about Europe. Be a serious politician. We give 15% of our territory, we give our sanctity. You give, Mr. Micunovic, because you accept Europe without any conditions. Explain to them what this is about. We want to join the EU, but dignifiedly, vertically and as partners of the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1768	The People's MP, Professor Zarko Korac, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1769	Dear Madam President, honourable MPs, the way we are having this agreement is the measure of rationality that we have today in Serbia. Although the agreement contains in its opening parts a reference to human rights and democratic institutions, it is basically an economic agreement and one would expect that most MPs, if not all, from the point of view of the local environments in which they live, the region responds whether our delegation has conducted negotiations well, whether this agreement is in Serbia's economic interest because, as in any agreement, there are things that are very favourable to us, there are things that are less favourable to us, there are things where certain compromises are made. The great effort has been put into these long-term negotiations and the result of these negotiations is here – 139 members, seven annexes, seven protocols. They're very specific. Unfortunately, a very small number of MPs in this hall are (it is their sovereign right to say what they will and what they will, it is doubtless) specifically said what he does not like in this agreement and what is not good from the point of view of Serbia's interest as a whole or region in which they are located. For example, there are concessions for agricultural products here. There are people here who represent parts of Serbia that are highly agricultural-oriented, the economy is based on agriculture. What does that mean for their region? We don't have any of that here and that's unfortunately the measure of rationality. What I want to talk a little bit about is the fact that there are two sides that negotiate this. One is the EU and the countries that make it today, and the other is Serbia itself. The fact is that there have been praises here about the work of previous governments, however, we can speak very critically about what has been done. Let me just remind you that the first decision to bring domestic legislation into line with European legislation was made in 2003. However, the government formed in 2004 slowed the process and did not correctly assess that the government has accelerated the process of European integration. The fact is, she slowed the process down. I could quote a lot of arguments about this – the withdrawal of all existing reform laws from the 2004 assembly procedure, the systematic removal of personnel working on it – so that negotiations with Serbia on the potential conclusion of this agreement were opened only in October 2005, and only in July 2006 did the government adopt an Action Plan to strengthen the institutional capacity to assume commitments in the European integration process. So, if we're talking about the effect of our side, the fact is that the government that was elected in 2004 essentially slowed the process down and that it went much slower than it could. Only the 2007 Action Plan (only the fact that I am giving you, honourable MPs) lists 44 laws, which had to be passed in 2007 to speed up this process. Of those 44 laws, only a few were adopted. It can be said that the impact of both governments and this assembly in 2007 is disastrous as regards European integration. I'll give you one example. And in the Constitution it is guaranteed and, of course, one of the assumptions of this agreement is the security of the legal order and the protection of ownership. The 2006 Constitution formally guarantees legal certainty and integrity of private ownership. However, what have we to this day and age not done? In this we are unique, indeed, in all post-Communist countries. No law on denationalisation has been passed. So Serbia is the only country that has not passed the law on denationalisation. No law has been passed and no other legal regulation allowing the city's building land to be privately owned and not in a long-term lease and no changes have been made in real law in order to better protect minority rights. I cite these examples just to show that when such an agreement is concluded, then both sides commit to something and it shows that what Serbia itself has done in the European integration process in terms of harmonisation of legislation is largely lagging behind what could have really happened. I fear that, if we continue to use the debate on this very important economic agreement with the EU in the way we are doing it now, giving only political arguments, Serbia will continue to lag behind in this harmonisation and will, in essence, lag behind on its EU accession. If most citizens are defined for EU membership (because we have no other environment, Serbia is a European country, we are European people and that is the world's largest export market, the second largest importer in the world is the EU, it is one economic giant), then we have to work differently in this assembly. That doesn't mean he's not having political debates, but when a deal like this is on the agenda, a man really rationally expects someone to answer him that he likes, what he doesn't like, what he thinks could possibly have looked better.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1770	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1771	I believe that this item of the agenda loses any meaning unless the government declares itself and says that the amendment of the SRS is an integral part of the bill. Since the government hasn't said that yet, then I get the impression we're doing the wrong thing. Why the wrong job? Because someone purposely forced us to enter into a debate about something that is against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I do not enter into the emotional state of some people (what they like, what they do not like), but the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia commits. Now, in short, I would like to explain why the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not oblige Boris Tadic, does not oblige Mr Djelic and does not commit these Eurofanatics. Eurofanatism means that there are Eurosceptics as well. Eurosceptics exist in the European Parliament, but it is forbidden to have Eurosceptics in Serbia because of Eurofanatics. Now, what does the Eurofanatic say in his pieces? The Eurofanatic says this - this agreement or these two agreements should be accepted because if they are not accepted, then Serbia cannot export 15 tonnes of trout annually. So, Kosovo and Metohija for 15 tonnes of trout a year. Or, to turn that into economically more recognizable data, it's 60 tons of carp a year. Sixty tonnes of carp annually and exports to the European Union in exchange for the loss of Kosovo and Metohija. Yesterday, a young MP, head of a parliamentary group, spoke of positive things that happened to Hungary and Poland the moment they entered the European Union. He forgot only one thing to potential here, that Hungary had not entered the European Union without a piece of territory and that Poland had not entered the European Union without a piece of its territory. Well, that's that little difference that we're all about. Of course, DS doesn't care how much the state is, or how much it looks, or who lives here, or who lives here. They care that the vice president can make 11.5m euros in opposition in two years. It's an American dream, you see for yourself that it can be realized, it's no problem at all. Of course, to defil a bit, to make commitments, as Mr. Micunovic said, on behalf of the citizens. All obligations were taken on behalf of the citizens and all their obligations, which they signed smoothly, will be felt by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday and today, there is talk in Brussels, it is a kind of trade (you, me, you), and on September 10th comes Serge Brammertz and then this democratic pro-European government will reach an agreement with the chief prosecutor on how to effectively kill Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal. It's an integral part of this package. Now, since Mr. Djelic was betrayed and grateful as a talker and associate, behold, God forbid what he wrote in his reminder. God forbid, Mr. Djelic. Of course, he was building a synopsis here, and what if the press were to ask him as a question so he could give an answer, and the answer is known. Let's just say, when asked what he thinks about whether he feels like a traitor, he answers. I'll just list a few interesting questions and answers. One of these questions is: Have you tried to negotiate a change in the SAA in order for the EU to confirm that KIM is an integral part of Serbia? What did Mr. Djelic prepare for his answer? He says this: Such a provision stands in our Constitution and there is no need for anyone else to confirm our country's highest legal act. The European Union does not have the authority to decide on such a matter. The SAA contains a provision that clearly protects Serbia's territorial integrity and all other malicious political manipulations. It means "cats go around you, make sure they don't scratch you." Why? Because there is another very important part Mr. Djelic does not want to talk about, and that part is, for example, based on its own chronology. I'm just gonna name some dates. For example, on November 7, 2007, December 6, 2007, 28 January 2008, 16 February 2008, 17 February 2008, 28 February 2008, 9 April 2008, 29 April 2008 and – the most important date in all of this chronology – 11 May 2008. It's all done, both with the paraphras, and with the signature, and with the negotiations, and with the pro-European forces, etc. to install a treason regime in Serbia because apparently some in the Western European Union have not finished their dirty work with the Republic of Serbia. Now we're being offered an agreement. The EU member states sign this, Serbia signs, two more European agencies. Of the 27 countries of the European Union, 20 have recognised Kosovo and Metohija independently. What does this agreement oblige them to do? Nothing. When did this agreement come into force? July 1st, whether you want to or not. What happened on April 28th? They made a statement -- nothing is recognised in this agreement, it has not yet come into force, it is awaiting ratification in these Member States of the European Union. When are they going to ratify it? Never. In the meantime, Eulex comes in. Peter Faith makes some statements, I'm not going to read them because it's likely that someone from the SRS will read what those statements are, that they are desirable countries that are friends of independent Kosovo. We have independent Kosovo friends in the government. Minister for Kosovo and Metohija and his state secretary -- they were officials of the Kosovo government, Goran Bogdanovic and Oliver Ivanovic, he was about to be in the SRS, in all parties he was. What kind of state policy is that? You have sold Kosovo and Metohija, it is only a question of how to admit it, how to make it known. What did you sell for? For 15 tons of trout and 60 tons of carp a year. Now, that's your price, that's how much you cost. How long are you going to last? Until the moment someone in the European Union thinks they need to change you. Why? Neither America nor the European Union likes losers. You're losers. You're cheap. For small things, small benefits for you as individuals you are able to sell everything and everything, or to be more precise, to give. So this power requires the people to crawl. This power should then be pushed. This is not the power of this people. The government that was formed and the coalition that was formed is contrary to the will of the citizens. Where did you calculate that most citizens are for what you're saying? On the basis of two leaders and one pensioner? Private combination, private state. With this private brotherhood, we do not need to conduct political dialogue because it would be more beneficial. We don't do politics for that. How do you exercise power? What do you confess to someone's authority in Kosovo and Metohija? You are requesting Resolution 1244. What does it still apply to Kosovo and Metohija? Verbally, you are reportedly opposed to those who kidnap Kosovo and Metohija, but you speak cordially to them, kissing them. Without the support of Solana, this support is important to you because it causes fear among citizens and on the basis of that fear you make some combinations with G17, with the SPS, with others, with the lions, with the right ones, even some who have died politically long ago, such as the SPO, but everyone is eager to make those 126, possibly 128, don't let God make someone sick, that everything is the result of the political process, the agreements, as he said a few days ago on a show, he says - in the Assembly we need MPs to talk with the argument rather than address the citizens. Citizens, you realize you have a government that doesn't have a driver's license. And remember, as far as DS and Boris Tadic, Kosovo and Metohija are worth 15 tonnes of trout, 60 tonnes of carp.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1772	The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Ivanji.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1773	The Honorable Presidency, Deputy Prime Minister, can anyone in this Chamber have anything against the foundation of the EU? These foundations are defined by EU objectives, which are peace, stability, economic gain, political unity and social equality. These are the foundations on which the EU rests, and these are the basic policies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Europe, of course, is the memory of our origin and the fact that EU accession is a slow return to our country's home. Could anyone have anything to do with the elimination of monopoly, the acceleration of the competitiveness of our businesses, the largest possible market, the best position of our people and employees abroad and members of their families, the free movement of people, work and capital? Can anyone have something against a brilliant idea that's been created for centuries, the ideas of the bravest people of that time, Calergia, Spinelli, Churchill, De Gaulle? Against these ideas today, it's those who stayed in the garbage of history. Here today, given the interpretation of individuals, I am free to say that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement exists and that Serbia will become a member of the EU very soon. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement exists in a formal sense because it was concluded between the two parties, Serbia and the European Community and the Member States on the basis of the consent of their will, which is the basis of bond-law relations. The agreement of the Contracting Parties also exists around Article 135. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which defines Kosovo's status under Resolution 1244. It is true that the agreement will pass the ratification of all Member States' parliaments and I can guarantee that it will be ratified, given that even for those countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence, it has been recognised in an illegal manner, that Article 135 is absolutely acceptable and that they have not been mistaken, as some legal analysts and lawyers of individual political parties claim, that they have been mistaken about that member of the Agreement, so that it is nothing. This member is also acceptable to our country because he calls for Resolution 1244. This resolution presents us with a comparative advantage in achieving our rights to the Security Council and the United Nations General Assembly. Why is this member acceptable to both parties? Well, because this member is defined as a factual state, the non-applicability of the Agreement is defined in a territory in which the state, unfortunately, has no control. I repeat: unfortunately, there is no control in either formal or legal terms. Why is this provision in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement? For one reason, because the agreement is a trade and one logical question is raised -- how will Serbia take certain measures under this agreement unless it is possible in part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia? I repeat: Unfortunately, it is not possible. That is why Kosovo's status is defined as Article 135, because the agreement would be inapplicable, given that it is a single trade agreement. Well, are we responsible for human rights violations in Kosovo, for crime, for corruption? Do we collect taxes down there? Do we control customs, the police? In the end, are we paying off the Kosovo debt? Are we paying him back? That's out of the question, that wouldn't be real. This is how we finance Albanian terrorists in particular. Optimism on the ratification of the Agreement in parliaments of countries that have recognised Kosovo draws from the fact that the act has been taken by the governments of those countries without all parliaments being for Kosovo's independence, given the position of Italy and the Czech Republic's parliaments, which have expressed their view against its independence. With regard to the part of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement that defines Serbia's obligation to co-operate with all independent countries in the region and to interpret that the co-operation obligation applies to Kosovo, I note that Kosovo is not an independent state. It's not really a country. The recognition of 20 European countries does not mean that Kosovo is recognised by the EU, given that the EU does not have formal legal legitimacy for the recognition of states. The Council of Ministers is a body that could recommend members to join the recognition of Kosovo, but did not. Remember that the Council of Ministers never stated Kosovo should be recognised. EU foreign policy needs consensus and foreign policy is decided by consensus, rather than by majority. I remind you that seven states have not recognised Kosovo's independence. The EU acts are binding only in the first pillar of the EU, which are European economic communities, which are just the acts among which one is the Stabilisation and Association Agreement after its ratification. Therefore, recognition of Kosovo's independence by certain EU countries does not mean that the EU has recognised Kosovo, nor is it an act, which has taken those countries, binding on the state of Serbia. It is the will of their governments, which in a formal legal sense represents nothing to us until a moment that will never happen, and that moment is that Kosovo becomes an independent state recognised by the EU General Assembly. The act of recognition of the self-called state has a formal legal fact, but only for the state that did it, and internationally there is no fact whatsoever. Internationally speaking, Resolution 1244 is in effect. We will defend our rights to the International Court of Justice, in the United Nations, but not to an agreement that is within our grasp and which gives us great opportunities. Of course, these are only great possibilities, and it is up to us to make sure that the benefits that this agreement brings are realised. I also look forward to the example cited yesterday on Macedonia, that the average salary is less than ours, although Macedonia signed an Association and Stabilisation Agreement seven years ago. That's exactly what it says about the successful economic policy that we've been leading all these years. We have a higher average salary than Macedonia, and I guarantee that this average salary will be higher after the signing, after the ratification of this agreement and after its entry into force. In addition to the effective and formal justice, the situation in Kosovo is unchanged. Kosovo, as a self-proclaimed, self-proclaimed state, does not have any benefits from unilateral recognition, so that the status cannot be sustainable on the long term. Kosovo has been recognised by a quarter or a fifth of UN members and the human rights situation in Kosovo's territory is mildly catastrophic. Corruption is catastrophic and from the north to the south of Kosovo. It is a problem that is not an element of a trade agreement that brings benefits to our country. It is a problem that is not new, it is the problem of the broken roots of our forgotten statehood, which was nothing more than the foundation of European civilization, culture and tradition that our ancestors were so proud of. Who ripped those roots? - that's the basic question. It was those who were programmed for Yugoslavia, for Serbia-Montenegro. Serbia comes first to us. In its history, Europe relied most on this very economic pillar, and these are certainly roads, bridges and intersections of different cultures where people met and exchanged both good and experience. Europe has also burned, Europe has suffered, has always been between myths and reality, just as it was Serbia, has been on great trials just as Serbia has been, but it has always remained Europe, unlike Serbia, which finally has its own statehood after 80 years. It is certain that Serbia is part of Europe in its essential being, and will soon become part of Europe in its formal legal sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1774	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet, appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1775	Madam President of the National Assembly, I am confident that you would have responded earlier if you had listened to a colleague who spoke here, who violated the dignity of the National Assembly and Article 104. Rules of Procedure. You were talking to your associate at the time, and I assume you missed it. So now I remind you and the MPs and the public of Serbia what this colleague here just said. At the beginning of his presentation, he said that today it is against this agreement that those who went to the garbage of history can not offend the SRS if someone who dares not go to the elections alone because he knows that he would not cross the censorship. To insult someone who has 82 MPs, of course he can't. I simply want to tell you (he bit the chain again, take him out) that you should be careful when you warn the MPs, warn everyone who behaves and who pronounces from this place something that is contrary to our rules of procedure. A colleague here reads one, I don't know what to call it, something someone wrote to him (probably again by Mirosinka's mother, because she writes to them all) and told them praises about Europe, he talked about how much they care about Kosovo and Metohija etc., but at the beginning of his presentation he said something that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and what the MP shouldn't say. He said that, unfortunately, Serbia has no control in Kosovo and Metohija. He said in Kosovo, though, and anyone who says so already implies that Kosovo is an independent state. It says – there is no, unfortunately, control either in fact or in a legal sense. You should have noticed that. So G17 plus thinks Serbia has no control over Kosovo and Metohija in a legal sense. As long as we have this Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, Kosovo and Metohija is in a legal sense an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, it is occupied territory and, of course, that occupation is supported by all of your friends you are trying to represent as friends of Serbia. I would also like to remind you of how you see co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Three days ago, I heard Mr. Vuk Jeremic, who says -- there it is, only to pack Mladic and Hadzic and Serbia, finished their co-operation with The Hague tribunal. So here's to The Hague everyone you're looking for, and we're done working together, and under the grain we're negotiating with Serge Brammertz and the others in The Hague tribunal to kill Vojislav Seselj for the beginning, and then they'll probably make a order with the others, that's a co-operation that we don't talk about publicly, which we know exists. We warn you now, and we will warn you several times every day, that you will not play, that you will have serious problems in Serbia if you convince Serž Brammerc that he convinces the Court of Appeal to impose Vojislav Seselj on the lawyer and thus kill the president of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1776	I have not responded because I do not interpret the specific figures of the Members, but once again I ask all MPs to verbalise in a decent manner the contents of their statements. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zeljko Ivanji.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1777	So, to clarify, I can primarily say that I went well, given that I wasn't cursed. I'll remind you that the curses were cast in the Middle Ages in Europe, but then there was something called the Inquisition. The Inquisition existed in the Middle Ages, but I don't want to suffer from a curse in Serbia today. And that is one of our goals, simply that Europe implies standards, peace and stability. Standards are against hate speech, and anti drug abuse and other things. So, I went well. As for the fact that Serbia has no control over Kosovo in fact or legally, it is legal in the sense that our legal acts, unfortunately, are not being applied in Kosovo. I repeat – unfortunately, because you know what happened in the previous years and 1999. So it's a fact, it's a fact of fact. I also heard that the SRS is not decided against those elements that are commercial, and this agreement is commercial. It's not against the better lives of citizens. The only problem is that you didn't understand it, you didn't understand that this agreement allows us to live a better life, that allows us better standards and allows us to live a completely normal life that simply won't be threatened in Europe. He won't be threatened by curses and drug abuses or other things. Therefore, we need standards and we stand up for those standards, and our legal system, unfortunately, does not apply in Kosovo, but it is the flow of one policy that is behind us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1778	The word is Mr. Samardzic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1779	It is very interesting that someone who claims that the SAA has paid so much attention to Article 135. That is, therefore, very strange. If the very structure of the agreement is looked at, it is not only a trade agreement, it is also a political agreement and it regulates many political, foreign policy, international law, internal law, internal security, institutional, legal and other matters. Trade agreements do not do so or some of these elements take in extreme minimal vision. So that's the first mistake. The second mistake is just interpreting that article 135. Legal documents and legal standards only make sense if they have some relationship with reality. The 135th member, until recognition of Kosovo and Metohija by 21 EU member states, had one meaning, had one relationship with reality, and since then he has had another relationship with reality. To interpret a member for himself - it is pure dogmatism, the blackest legal dogmatism. Therefore, since the recognition of Kosovo and Metohija by 21 Member States, it cannot be said that the member is in line with Resolution 1244. Why? Because these countries directly violated Resolution 1244. So that's a matter of fact. If you are talking about facts relating to the application of Serbia's legal system in Kosovo and Metohija, you are also talking about the facts that point to the eye, which is that 21 EU member states have recognised Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state and that from now on or from that moment on, they will act as such, primarily in relations with Serbia and above all in certain things that Serbia is waiting for if it ever implements the SAA. The wrong thing has been said here, that the EU does not recognise state independence. It does not formally do, of course, but the European Community, as its most important part, communicates, concludes contracts with independent states. That, therefore, is quite clear. If the EU did not recognise the countries, it would not have taken EULEX to KIM. To remind you once again, Eulex is tasked with implementing an independent state of kiM. The European Union is doing this. He doesn't admit KIM, and that's what he does. Explain to us, please, how possible. On the other hand, two or three days ago you could read in the paper that the EU summit, the meeting of heads of state and government, advocated Georgia's territorial integrity. Did she confess to Georgia or not? Of course it is. Therefore, it does not allow disturbances, skewers and violates Georgia's territorial integrity or international law. Now she remembered him, and in the case of Serbia she didn't remember him. Please draw the conclusion whether the EU recognises independent states or not. One more thing. I really appeal to talk about living things here, so political problems, not to go to those things that we agree on. The content of this agreement cannot be, at least as far as the DSS is concerned, the point of a major dispute between the DSS and the government's majority here. It is about what has happened the last six months in political life, in Serbia and the EU's political relations, and it must be the subject of this debate. Everything else is, in fact, the blackest conservativeism, so discussing topics that are already somewhere in history. Modern history, which is today's situation in Serbia and the EU, is what is deeply questioning the agreement and future relations between Serbia and the EU. And let that be the subject. The last thing I'm going to say is reacting to this terrible selection of facts carried out by counterpart Zarko Korac, interpreting the recent history of Serbia and the EU's relations. That terrible selection is that some facts are chosen, and some are silenced. Serbia could not begin negotiations with the European Commission on the SAA before October 2005, as the feasibility study was won at the end of April 2005. That's quite clear. Prior to that, she had set up a National Association Strategy, before doing other tasks. Of course, it is true that at the end of 2003, the government of Zoran Zivkovic started the action plan on the implementation of the European Partnership on the basis of the Thessaloniki Agenda, which is quite true, but it should be done in these facts as they really did. It is perfectly normal that it could not have gone any faster in the SAA negotiations, given the EU's behaviour. To neglect this order of facts one of the scariest facts, that the EU interrupted those negotiations by 13 months because of its lack of co-operation with The Hague tribunal, and then continued after 13 months, although Serbia did nothing of what it asked for, is, in fact, a waste of time at Serbia's expense. They're all facts and they have to be counted. We have to be fair to recent history and to the governments that did this job fairly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1780	Thank you. Ms. Vjerica Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure, followed by Mr Krasic and Natasa Jovanovic and Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1781	Article 101. Rules of Procedure. The fact that you, a colleague and other colleagues are trying to make fun of the curses that we say only tells you that they don't give you a peaceful dream. That's the way it's supposed to be. You are cursed even when you were playing colorful balloons on the day of the funeral of Slobodan Milosevic, and that is all you have left for all time. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you said you didn't care when the MPs said "style figures". I don't know what's in what I was saying, and as for what Mr. Ivanji said before, it made sense to some figure of style. What he said, I mentioned it as an accident at the very beginning, that those who are against this agreement are at the disposal of history, maybe that's how you understood it. Here's a message for this colleague, that his entire van party will be directly with power completely in Zabel. Of course, history will talk about them and about us and we have no problem with that. I wanted to draw attention to you that you didn't hear because, I saw, I talked to a colleague, I guess something was being negotiated, consulted, and I didn't put that remark on you, although it is necessary that you follow the MPs at any time, I draw attention to you that Mr Ivanji said that Serbia has no legal control over KIM. Is that a figure of speech for you? If it is, then it's really scary, that you, as Parliament Speaker, think so too. We think and argue that, based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, KIM is part of the Republic of Serbia, and what the Republic of Serbia has, in a legal sense, control over it. In fact, I repeat, unfortunately there is no, and if you accept this agreement, then you will make Serbia no longer have control over KIM in a legal sense. It is your intention, and our intention is to prevent you from doing so, or at least to tell the citizens of Serbia that you are selling KIM, that you already acknowledge and accept that Serbia has no legal control over KIM. Here, I'm done. Let me get you back to what you said you did well because you're not cursed. I don't know if you've ever mocked Jews who cursed anyone who forgot Jerusalem for three thousand years. We will curse every Serb who forgets Kosovo and Metohija, Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, who sold Radovan Karadzic, whoever killed Ranko Panic and whoever intends to kill Vojislav Seselj in The Hague for the rest of his life.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1782	Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1783	Of course, problems arise when some MPs forget that they are in the National Assembly, they already think they are in studio B92 or RTS and then start to tell something that children call colorful lies. Mr. Ivanji, I'd just like to remind you of something your media published, but keep an eye on, as I speak, that there is an amendment to the SRS. Read that amendment, and say what is wrong with that amendment. Let me remind you what that chronology was like. On 28 January 2008, instead of signing the SAA, according to Mr Djelic, the EU offered Serbia a political agreement on strengthening overall co-operation in trade, economics, education and full visa waiver for Serbian citizens. Of course, it was aimed at helping a pro-European candidate in the presidential election. The next thing, on February 16th, the EU Council of Ministers (only Cyprus was abstention) adopted a written procedure called the "EU Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo - EULEX Kosovo". The next very important date is February 17th 2008 - the self-proclaiming of Kosovo's independence or, to be precise, an attempt to officialise Kosovo and Metohija in some way. What's significant? Of the 27 EU member states, 20 recognises an independent Kosovo at that time. And what happens and what's the status? KIM is under the international civilian and military administration of the UN. This means that it does not, in fact or legally, allow the rebel authorities to declare independence because the rebel government in KIM does not have effective control over territory or itself. There are international observers. So I don't exceed the time required for reporting, just to remind you what state policy it was since January 21st, 2001. The National Assembly says don't go to the election. Tadic says - go to the election. 0.06% of Serbian citizens appear in the elections. Who signed the agreements? Let me remind you of Covic, the constitutional framework, the regulation of the relationship between the Civil Mission and the Republic of Serbia. Who gave full support and consent to everything that was done on KIM? DOS, in any aggregate state, and there was always Bozidar Djelic. The European perspective, the future leader of Europe. No kim, of course. In the end, you know, every agreement requires full consent from a foreign contractor. You're here to demonstrate that there is no agreement on this side. There is no agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1784	Miss Natasa Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1785	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are MPs from the ruling group, from the so-called The group "For Europe's Serbia", which I don't know, though, and they haven't shown themselves in their own rhetorical or any other knowledge yet, and for the assembly speaker there will probably be opportunities, if they ever speak, but counterpart Ivanji is certainly not one of them. That I do not know him and that I do not know what he is doing in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and as a member of the Parliamentary delegation of the Council of Europe, in which I, as an MP of the SRS, is otherwise a colleague of Ivanji, among other things, is a member of the Legal Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, so that I know very well what his and his legal and any other parliamentary, political opportunities are and how he acted there and how he is represented here. When I look at you, my colleague Ivanji, and here's how long it's been, just a few months or two and a half months since we were together at the last, summer session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as if I'm looking at another person. Then I must present you to the MPs here, first of all, to tell the Serbian radicals that you are one hard Serbian nationalist, when you perform at the Council of Europe, and also your colleague, Milojub Albianic, who, however, was not the last time at the meeting, but there, in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, you absolutely represent the same attitudes of the SRS and DSS. What does that change in your head, colleague Ivanji, or do you think it's modern now or you're going to make it happen, you, as an individual, are already rating, or are you going to introduce yourself differently to Bozidar Djelic or those from DS if you perform differently here? In the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, you would never say what you said today. There you would never say what you just said, not by mistake and not by accident, when Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic did not warn you, and that is that we do not have, as a state, legal control over KIM. You refer there in all your speeches to both the Final Helsinki Document and respect for international law and Resolution 1244 and, above all, to the Constitution of Serbia. Now to bring a stenogram of your January presentation, when that monster Lord Russell, whom you don't know, if you saw him, if you walked into this door here, you'd really turn all of you out of order, just like you are sitting here, as Albianic now turns because he knows him very well, and he's a friend of Dragoljub Micunovic, that certain Russell Johnston is the greatest lobbyist for the Shiptar thing in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and you were there fighting it. Also, fellow Ivanji, when you talk about these general principles contained in Article 2, first of all, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, you see the conditions that we are asked for, which you are also fighting as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I need to remind you of your very pawnage. However, you, Mr Albianic, said -- you know, we can't sign it because we don't have the consent of Mladjan Dinkic, because he doesn't know that you're the hard Serbian nationalists there, as you should be, and thank God there's more and more of us, and so Serbia, and more of millions of Serbian citizens, in the largest number, so he looks at the defence of KIM and the rights of those who are being prosecuted by the anti-Serbian Hague tribunal, but then come out, so just say that you're actually someone who thinks as a Serbian radical but you happen to be in G17, or you've changed your mind, so now you're someone who advocates for the Shiptar thing. Or you've changed your mind so you're no longer that Zeljko Ivanji, who, on the arrival of the second monster Carla del Ponte, the former prosecutor of the Hague casamat, last year at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, raised his voice against that report she gave. You were almost ready to sign amendments with us and Mr. Albianic to protect the rights of Professor Vojislav Seselj because you, as a lawyer, know that he is right and that he is right and Dr. Radovan Karadzic and any Serb who defends him against false accusations there. Since someone mentioned a public opinion survey, did you see what that strategic marketing said yesterday? Sixty-three percent of Serbian citizens at the moment do not know what the Hague Kazamat is accusing Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic of. What is Dr. Vojislav Seselj charged with? To defend Serbian state and national interests, and to defend them when they return to Serbia as persistently and strongly as Dr Karadzic will when he defends his rights. But then it would be good for you to consider, as a man who should raise both his children and influence future generations, that you still turn to that side and that Zeljko Ivanji who so determinedly defends the rights and the Hague convicts and, above all, Serbs at the KIM in the Council of Europe, that you do not pose to us falsely. Otherwise, there's no need to say anything else then because your argument is now that Bozidar Djelic needs to know, there's a lot different than this. This economic aspect, the flow of goods and capital, cooperation in the field of tourism and all that, we already know that. You do it eight years ago and where is our economy, where are the workers, where are the farmers, where are the pensioners? Let's talk about these big state matters, defending sovereignty and the return of Serbian heroes, those who are on the justice of God, as our president, who they want to kill there, for six years in The Hague. Then let me see you. If you are now a member of the delegation, in October of the month, will you defend Kosovo and Metohija, will you defend the rights of the Hague indictees there or will you act like this? And that's in the right sense of the word betrayal, as you just said about the pay phone. Unfortunately, colleague Ivanji, the time of the Inquisition has not passed. In the Hague case, Slobodan Milosevic was killed and another 13 Serbs were killed, and they intend to kill, but I believe that it will not succeed, and we warn them, and Bozidar Djelic, who are involved in these dirty jobs, in a negotiation for the delivery of Serbian heads, that you do not joke about it because we will be the rights of our president and every man who is there, every Serb, to defend until the last breath.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1786	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, just to answer all the questions I've been asked. So the level of legal control over Kosovo is regulated by the Constitution and all acts. As some MPs plead on the subject, if I were to intervene, I would practically usurp their right to state their position. I don't think I should have intervened. Thanks for the suggestion. As for my interpretation of style figures and curses, I just said that I interpreted them abstractally and not specifically. A specific interpretation is a feature of children. Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1787	Dear fellow Members of the People, I found the basis for my reporting in Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm grateful to my colleagues from this encrypted political party who gave creamworth and my colleagues and me to go out for this pay phone for having discussed it this way. He remembered the time of the Inquisition, and he forgot about Lazarus' curse. He must have skipped one cycle, a historic period that is very important not only for Serbian history but also for the history of Europe. But it is a problem that I see not only here, in the National Assembly, but in all of Serbia, because I am simply amazed by the fact that we are talking about such an important, perhaps even fatal subject, and that in our society there has never been, except in political debates, duels, in a pre-election campaign in a serious way, talked about the topic of EU accession, and I must say that I am clearly disappointed with the exposé of the Deputy Prime Minister on this subject, given that he, as a man who presents himself as extremely professional and as an expert, was really expected more. In my presentation, I will look back on those other angles of looking at this topic, primarily cultural, moral, theological, but when I come to the order to expose the agreement itself, and now I would just like to remind all of you who are discussing it, and here are some professors, who I expected to know something about, and that it is good to think that it is said and to warn fellow MPs and the general public, and that is the system of public morality. I will remind everyone that public morality and media systems today rest on egoism, naked materialism and atheism, and that these are actually three principles that have existed since the bourgeois revolution. If we want to adopt this completely, that these are the principles on which we will base all our decisions, the result of imposing a spirit such as, in my opinion, morally fallen and secularised Europe, will clearly be visible, as well as the consequences of all this. Such a post-Hristian Serb, as a fellow who spoke, will, of course, choose the European Union rather than Kosovo and Metohija. Rather, he will choose a Schengen visa to take pictures under the Eiffel Tower than to visit Serbs in a Kosovo concentration camp. We'd rather take our children on tours in Italy and France than take them to see the Children's and the Roast Patriarchy. This is what Serbia today is, unfortunately, thanks primarily to the 'yellow' media, immature politicians, i.e. People who are not up to being in high state functions at this historic moment, that is, the fact that we make statesmen and we don't have. Really, believe me, it's becoming intolerable for me to sit at age 50 in a society that reminds me of a school class of, say, third grade kids. First of all, I'm thinking of this right half of Parliament because in these benches, believe me, no one can do anything serious or do anything unless the climate and atmosphere are like this. There are some here who really need an estimate, I think even work skills, not to talk about anything else. That's how I feel, it doesn't mean I'm right, but you're more professional and you can certainly judge better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1788	Mr. Riza Halimi has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1789	Your Honor, I asked for a replica yesterday, but here I am reporting more per Article 226, too, and 201, the Minister of Education's written reply. At first, I would like to note that this is the only parliament in the environment that still offends Albanians using the name Shipari. I once reacted to it and I can see it has no effect because it repeats itself. I think it's within a vocabulary of hate that's still, unfortunately, spreading from here. I think you should react, but it's up to you to assess it. As far as the minister's question is concerned, I received it after a month and a half, with a considerable delay, and as far as my question is concerned about the issue of diplomas issued at the University of Pristina and in forms and with the seal of Unmika. These diplomas were recognised throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of a document signed by the minister of education in May 2001. At the end of July of this year, in memos delivered to the municipal administrations of Bujanovac and Presevo, the current minister of education hurried to declare invalid these diplomas as the basic argument of the Ministry of Kosovo's opinion, which was issued in a letter of 13 September last year, in which Unmik's public high school documents were declared invalid. The question is how competent it is for the Ministry of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, but judge. It is known that no conditions for Albanian higher education have been created in Serbia so far, and that is why many Albanians from the Presevo Valley are mostly studying at the Pristina University. After huge and often unresolved problems in the classification of diplomas acquired at the University of Tirana, this drastic change of attitude of the Ministry of Education leads to a very difficult and unexplainable situation and blocks the process, I say, of shy integration of Albanians into the social, economic and state system of the Republic of Serbia. I have said several times that the integration of Albanians in this area is being taken more care of by Americans, Germans, the European Union than the state institutions have ever taken care of before. In a situation where this reckless interpretation of the Ministry of Education threatens to block the fragile institutions of local self-government, which would cause chaos of unpredictable proportions, I...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1790	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1791	I've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1792	No, you have three minutes. You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure and you've got three minutes. Go ahead, keep thinking, it's not questionable, but just so you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1793	I gave you a problem. The questions are my next, because it really is a serious problem that needs to be solved urgently. My questions were addressed to Minister Cvetkovic, whom I wrote in 6.8, and I have no answer. We got the answer through a press conference from the Minister of Education. I think this way is inappropriate, too. Now the question is: When was the government's decision on non-recognition of a Pristina University diploma issued in Unimik's forms and does this have a retroactive fact? Is the government's decision to accept the KIM Ministry's opinion that these diplomas are nothing or the minister of education's position that these diplomas are invalid? So does this other qualification allow for a nostrification procedure? Does the government have a position on diplomats that will only be issued at Pristina University where more than 90% of our young people are studying and will not be issued in Unmik's forms? The final question is: Are these dimensions of the problems raised by this decision being seen and what is the plan to address this very sensitive issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1794	When it comes to parliamentary matters, you have five minutes. This was advertising the Rules of Procedure. Anyway, you're done. The word is Mr. Pelevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1795	Mr. Riza Halimi and I had two confrontations yesterday over the term "presevo Valley", which he uses in a warm way. I told him there was no such concept and no such territory in Serbia. The area of Serbia is called the Pcinj County, the capital is Vranje, and Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja are in the district. There is no prescheve valley except in your separatist dreams. You clearly showed yesterday, when you were calling on the NATO Pact, that you stood by that defeated former army of yours, the Presevo Liberation Army, the Bear and the Bujanovac. He still has the roots of that army in your area. You've made yourself clear as a separatist when it comes to these conflicts. So, there is no Presevo Valley, there is a southeast of Serbia. There's something else I need to tell you. You just said that 90% of the youth in your neighborhood is studying in Pristina. Why? Well, isn't it nearer to the low university? Where's Belgrade? But that's the problem with your youth, and I'd say you're raising her like that. As for history and your historical name, I'll tell you one thing because in history, I understand a little bit better than you do, because that's what I do. The Turks called you Shipare, as their fist of impact, Arnautima, while the Greeks, Serbs and other Orthodoxs called you Arbanasima. Personally, I think it's the most historic justice, the best expression for you. You're angry when I tell you you're a Shiptar. I don't know why. If you remember correctly, your queen, as you call her, Albania, has a name called "Schipnia". You call each other Shipari. None of you are calling you Albanians alone. I don't know why it offends you. If I told you yesterday that you're a Shiptar, it's an insult, and when I tell you that you're a Shiptar, like I'm a Serb, it's really not an insult. I'm just calling you by your name, by the name of your nation. You should be proud of that name, not offensive. Yesterday I said that the SRS, I too, is that everyone in that area called the Pcinian County, in Medvedja, Presevo and Bujanovac, lives exactly the same and completely equal, that our children are mutually respected and that they co-operate. We want co-operation, and you want to change geographical terms to political categories, because the term you used (consistently, and today you used it) – "Presevo Valley", is actually a political category, a separatist-political category. Tomorrow you will say, and many of you are already saying, that this is 'Eastern Kosovo' and it is clear that your desire to join this region to the so-called 'Eastern Kosovo'. Kosovo's independent republic. I must tell you that this will never happen, as long as there is an SRS, and I hope as long as there are both the left and right sides of this Parliament, that we are all in full agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1796	Mr. Riza Halimi, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1797	Thank you. Yesterday I didn't make it very clear to the gentleman of his dilemma. First, it is really inappropriate for members of one nation to talk about what other people should feel. It is not allowed in personal relations, let alone one group to prescribe what is offensive and what is not to another people. I'm talking about the feelings we have. My voters and I felt offended yesterday. The further story of it is too high. Come on, honor this, we're not going into history. We don't need history on this issue. I'm telling you it's offensive because that's how I accept it. I reacted to that once, and just, I mean, the gentleman on behalf of the radicals said he wouldn't do it again, but I can see that, here, you're going on with the same rhetoric. That Vranje is the capital of the Pcinj County, that's the government's category, we know the question of our districts, and that there are specificities in this area that I call "presevo Valley", and that there are a lot of those who call it "Eastern Kosovo", but they didn't even accept to come here, to fight politically with you to solve these problems. I was honest at first, when I went out with the party, with the coalition, I said, "Presevo Valley." As soon as it's accepted, what makes this extra story? It's an absolute name for the characteristics that this area has, and this country needs to see it as wealth, and we need to move forward as such, not eliminating the differences that exist in this country. I think it's absolutely without any sound logic any urge to disrespect and eliminate these differences in such a rough way. In my opinion, here is the basic problem of ethics. There is no willingness to talk seriously about a really serious and hypersensitive problem -- why young people from Presheva don't come, as I was here in 1968 to study. This and the previous government should think deeply and see what the reasons are. There's been no readiness so far. Let's sit down and see what the reasons are, not behaving like this, in this way. I think the situation is very serious, very sensitive. I hope the government did not make that decision, however, that the minister misrepresented the decision. Otherwise, if such a decision is made, I really don't have room for further action in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1798	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1799	Ladies and gentlemen, I also refer to members 225 and 226. It's not my place to give a valid answer, it's what the Ministry of Education will do, but I want, for the sake of the public, without politicizing, to give some more facts. I expected him to react to his DSS colleagues since the decision was made in 2007. Just a few facts. In 2001, the government of Serbia recognised the diplomas issued by Unmik. In 2007, the U.S. The Serbian government has changed that decision. Why? Because in 2003, Unmik changed his education system. So, there are only a few more facts that need to be found here – whether it is done by law. Knowing and trusting Mr. Minister, it's under the law. Is that for a further story, then. So why is that? For the simple reason that the ministry cannot nostrify something that is not in accordance with the law, which is not in line with the prescribed forms. The system of independent education was changed in 2003 and that is the real reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1800	The word is Mr. Pelevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1801	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I appeal to Article 104. Rules of Procedure, Rule 1. - "People's MPs are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly." Madam President, you are required to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, but you are also obliged, as another Serbian man, to respect the dignity of the Republic of Serbia. There's clearly separatism here. Using the words 'presevo Valley', but also acknowledging that most of them call it 'Eastern Kosovo', it is a clear sign of separatism and I think you are obliged to protect all of us and the Republic of Serbia from publicly expressed separatism in this high house. Mr. Riza Halimi also said again that we should ask ourselves why young people from Presevo are going to study in Pristina, not Nis, not Belgrade, and not another city. It's clear why. That's how it all started in Kosovo and Metohija, from education, from their university, so we see how it ended. So I'm asking you to stop this discussion, because it's obvious that I'm right about everything, and it's obvious that Mr. Halimi is wrong about anything, so I'm asking you to protect this house from clearly expressed separatist words and aspirations.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1802	Please return to the agenda. The word is Mr. Nikolic. Your task force has 15 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1803	Ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, has been told here many times, but I want to repeat our country's chronological path towards the EU. It is clear that the formal road begins in September 2005, when the government decided to start negotiations on the completion of the SAA, and these negotiations formally began in October of that same year and lasted until September 2007. As far as I know, a dozen meetings were held with EU representatives, and we came in November 2007 to discuss the agreement, i.e. that all the matters that matter in relation to the EU are agreed and that the agreement is undeniable. The government of the Republic of Serbia has made a decision to paralyze the agreement. I would like to remind you that it was done in two terms by the government of Vojislav Kostunica and all the comments, all the attacks on the DSS that she is to God's anti-European or, as I hear a slight formulation of the last days, the non-European party is absolutely falling into the water. Our contribution is unequivocal and is in the SAA, as our party's representatives then participated in the government of the Republic of Serbia and in the official state bodies in the negotiation and reconciliation of the SAA. What is being silenced here, and I just want to draw attention to the fact that, when you put something under the rug for a long time, it does not give and will not produce results, but will eventually appear in a worse and sharper form, it is that in the meantime some things have happened and they primarily concern one date, or 14 December 2007, when the EU has made a fax decision to form the Eulex mission and to send it to Kosovo. The EU's decision coincides with one decision by the then president of the Assembly, or the DS, to move into the presidential elections. We were already in one serious process then, in the final phase that Kosovo declared false independence and we all knew it, that is when it was already known and clearly hinted. At that time, Mr. Vlajko Senić knew it, although he knew it obviously in 2005, as opposed to us. Our view was that we should not go to the presidential elections, that we simply must, both as a state and as a society, focus on the most important problem, which is the defence of state integrity and that elections can destabilise political relations. This, in the end, proved to be true because after these presidential elections, parliamentary elections were followed, the government no longer had a single policy, and we entered parliamentary elections with all those electoral bodies by pro-European forces and all that silence of the truth that is actually being prepared for Serbia and what is the "quack" when it comes to the SAA. Everyone wants to hear stories about a better life and, naturally, everyone wants to live a better life. When politicians say that, on the one hand, there is an excuse, but when they base their own policy on it, then it is the seduction of the electoral body, and it is not the obligation of a serious politician and a serious policy. Especially in serious moments, responsibility and responsibility for responsible policy and responsible politicians is to tell their people the truth. The truth is overruled. We have heard great stories about better life and about the positive aspects that European integration has and which, of course, are not even controversial. They are, at the very least, contained in the SAA in the trade, business and economic work. What is a key moment is the declaration of Kosovo's independence. That's when the waterhouse starts, and that's when the dispersal happens. A different approach in its strongest form proved precisely when, in fact, in our opinion, the circumstances in relations with the EU that should have had, first and foremost, the opening of this one issue, and you will allow, and you will probably admit that this is our country's problem with the EU, that it has simply entered into the process of recognising the independence of the false state of Kosovo. What happened at the end of April, or in the middle of an election campaign, is the signing of the agreement. Clearly, I want to say openly here, that signing was done because it was estimated to receive three to four percent of the electoral bodies. I'm talking about seduction of the electoral body again. Someone has decided that it will seduce an additional three to four percent of the electorate and that it will be enough to win the election. It wasn't enough either, but the price was paid and paid pretty high. I am not happy with the fact that after the signing of the agreement in early May, so before the 11 May and before elections, the French task force "Figaro" on page 4 writes the big title "Saving the ranks of Tadic", which explains on the whole side why the agreement was signed and what the intention of signing the agreement is to further seduce the Serbian people, i.e. to get the support of those necessary three to four percent to take over. I may disagree with the President of the Republic, I may agree, but we will certainly agree that it is not good for the President of our Republic to be written in a foreign press that way. The President of the Republic can't be in line. The question is, whose line is he? Obviously, according to the French newspaper Figaro, the ranks of those who had an interest in signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement cover up something much more important, which we here declare that it is the most important thing, and that is the kidnapping of the territory of our country. There was talk of positive economic aspects, no one slows it down. It is clear that the SAA can bring us economic, economic and financial benefits and that is absolutely not controversial. But here it is denied that this agreement has its own political aspect and its own political dimension. Basically, when we open that political dimension, you run away from it. With one simplified formula to protect our state integrity, that the EU cannot recognise the republic of Kosovo, that only the Member States can do so and that a member of 135 guarantees us state integrity. That's just not true. Even if it were true, here's to saying that you're absolutely right, and you're not, it's impossible, it's not right. If you want, it's immoral. You have 27 countries in the EU, 21 countries have recognised KIM. We need to ratify this SAA, and that should be done by those countries that have recognised KIM. I ask a simple question, to which a simple answer should be given - will the British parliament ratify this agreement with the intention of signing it with the Republic of Serbia as a comprehensive state or without KIM and will other parliaments that have recognised Kosovo's independence do so? Of course he will. You do not answer these political questions because they contain the moral dimension you are fleeing from. You can't just be pragmatic. Pragmatism is good at politics, but pragmatism can't be deprived of morality because, when it's devoid of morality, it's pure volunteerism. You have no answer to the question of what if at one point, and that will happen, events to the wolf in that direction, as a condition for EU accession, the recognition of KIM is set. We get an easy answer: we won't agree to that. But what if it does? What if it happens in six months, two years, four years? Yesterday we had the highest state delegation in Brussels. I have not seen specific dates and can not hear concrete confirmations when we will achieve our goal of joining the EU. Language analysis suggests that this may happen and that the visa regime may be abolished in 2009, that we may become a candidate for EU membership in 2009. That's what Mr. Barroso says that he's not authorized to do. The Council of Ministers has been authorised, and 21 ministers in the EU Council of Ministers are among those who have signed and recognised KIM's independence. Let's all be deprived of marketing, let's get back to the bottom of the problem, what's the key problem is - do we have a problem with the EU? By the gestures and what was said last night in Brussels, I don't see our top officials making that point. It may not even need to be potential, but at least it should be said that there is a problem with the EU, because 21 countries out of 27 have recognised KIM independence and that the most important issue for us is territorial integrity. I expected that from both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. I didn't hear that from them, or, again, it's said in a form that just satisfies the form, and it doesn't affect the essence. In order to have a clear European perspective, it was better to do what we should do as a state and what you, as a ruling coalition, should do, but obviously you will not, is to clear up at this very moment all the dilemmas with the EU, to see what direction the EU is going in when it comes to KIM independence. They confessed to her. Does the EU enter into an arrangement for Kosovo's accession to the EU? Does this government have an answer to that question? I don't think so. I think the EU is entering the EU's accession process. Here yesterday, in this European enthusiasm, one G17 MP said we should join the EU as soon as possible to first join the EU and prevent Kosovo from entering the EU. A ruling majority MP admitted here that the EU accession process has begun. We can put our heads in the sand, put all the dirt under the carpet, but that dirt will grow and it'll get harder and harder to deal with. That is why the state had to, at the moment when the EU member states went into the process of recognising KIM, draw the line and see what we should do with the EU. These two processes are not compatible. Maybe someone thinks they are, but it connects irreconcilably because eventually we will come, you will come ahead of that dilemma – that your condition for the EU is to recognise the independence of KIM. I say pragmatism without morality is pure volunteerism. I'm afraid, and I'm sure in a high percentage that the people, this society and this country are still just trying to seduce them, telling them very nice stories about a better life that, of course, we all want here, and that's actually the problem, the biggest challenge that is ahead of us, and that's our relationship to taking away part of the territory, you intend to keep your mouth shut until the moment you hit your head against the wall. I don't want to do this to you, because I don't want to do this to my country and my people, but I think you're headed that way and it will prove that, regardless of what we may have paid the political price in these elections, at least our conscience is clear because we've told our people and citizens the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1804	Ms. Verica Radeta is advertising the Rules of Procedure, and let Mr. Momir Markovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been doing the opposite of Article 194 for almost an hour. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and Madam President of the National Assembly, does not react. This member was regulated to have a government representative here. Mr. Djelic has gone where unknown. It was necessary right away, the moment he left, to interrupt the session, to take a break, and to ensure the presence of an authorised representative of the government in this House. Since the 21st of July, when you interrupted the session in agreement with Boris Tadic, you personally and ministers of the government of the Republic of Serbia and all the yellow media have been running hot with how the opposition is obstructing parliament's work, especially in the last three days, since we continued the work of this session, and in fact you have persistently proved that you of the ruling coalition are violating the Rules of Procedure and are obstructing parliament. Yesterday there was a break here, also for the intervention of SRS MPs, because Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic was not in the O.R. when the agenda was being discussed. He, when he's here, can't choose when he's going to go out when he's going to be in the O.R., can't judge whether he likes it when the MPs speak in the Rules of Procedure or he doesn't like it. All that was said today in the Rules of Procedure was the topic that the Deputy Prime Minister should have heard, and that is his obligation, and I ask you, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, to ensure the presence of the minister, and until he arrives, to take a break. This people need to know who works here in accordance with the Constitution, the law, the Rules of Procedure, and who keeps breaking it, and trying to imagine how it isn't like that and how someone else does it. After all, if Bozidar Djelic had just been here, he would not have had to appear as Minister Zarka Obradovic's spokesman and show us that we have again a feudal government and that every minister has a portfolio here. The question addressed to the ministry led by Mr. Obradovic would be answered by Bozidar Djelic, as I suppose he knows, as vice president, what is being done in each ministry. So, I repeat, on the basis of Article 194 we insist that you suspend the work of parliament until you provide for the presence of Bozidar Djelic. 'Cause after all the jumping and burping yesterday, "Let's adopt, let's discuss, let's talk! "Where is it today that we discuss, that we speak, that he may hear us, that he may answer us? Well, welcome, Djelic!
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1806	Mr. Djelic was in the building and he heard your call, otherwise I'd be ready to call him. Mr. Markovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, God, as chief accountant and recordr of everything we do, what we do, what we think, is the only one who has the right to judge the works. What scares you, gentlemen of the yellow, red-yellow coalition, (whatever, now you are no longer afraid) is knowing that God has the right and to impose sanctions for the curse. Let me remind you, you were just reminded by the MPs of the SRS that by committing a crime, you'd get a curse. To remind you that the families, families, the Obrenović tribes are no longer here because they delivered Karadjordja, and you have delivered a new Karadjordje, or several Serbs, who can carry the epithet of Karadjordja, already to The Hague tribunal. The fact that it lasts until the ninth or thirteenth generation, think about it, but the fact that it hit you, that it opened up to you to know that you owe to God, not to people. You will be before men before the laws of men, and you will not be debated about your crimes by Dilpariæi, or the Werewolves, but exclusively by the Lord God, and you who consider yourselves atheists, yet you are at least a little bit trusting and you know that this will come upon you. So let's close this story and go back to what's called the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, to what the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister said yesterday -- "Let's do, let's adopt, let's make it happen! Let's talk about it. Let's discuss that on 6 November 2007, the government adopted the text of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and authorised you, Mr. Djelic, to go sign it. You did it on the seventh. On 16 February, the EU Council of Ministers (only Cyprus abstained) adopted a written procedure called the Joint Action, the EU Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo, or EULEX Kosovo. This pushes both KFOR and Unmik, or United Nations, and Europe takes over, gives itself the right to implement what Martti Ahtisaari wrote. At that moment, it was known that the next would be KIM independence and that the next procedure would be recognition by EU member states. Let me remind you that on 17 February 2008, secession was declared and individual recognition of Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state began. Of the 27 countries, 22 have recognised KIM's independence. These countries, the parliaments of these countries, the governments of those countries today, the day after tomorrow, when we adopt (if we adopt) this Stabilisation and Association Agreement, will have to do only two things. Either withdraw their decision to recognise Kosovo as an independent state, or not to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Serbia. There's no third option. And you, Mr. Minister, may I remind you that the Constitution is the oldest legal act in any country, even in our country, no matter what our country leads this government and is headed by such a president. The supremation of the Constitution over other laws is common everywhere in the world and there is no law that can be older than the Constitution. Anything older than the Constitution must be adapted to the Constitution. The Constitution is a framework through which you can get through all the laws. Anything that sticks above that frame has to be cut. The constitution has made clear and unequivocal that Kosovo is an inalienable part of Serbia's state. I'll quote, so you'll say no to me from the time. Article 8. The constitution says: "The territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible. The border of the Republic of Serbia is non-injurious, and changes according to the procedure foreseen for the change of the Constitution. Article 16: "Second policy of the Republic of Serbia rests on generally recognised principles and rules of international law. The accepted rules of international law and approved international agreements are part of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia and are directly applicable. The confirmed international agreements must be in accordance with the Constitution'. By the time the Republic of Kosovo was declared, or an independent state of Kosovo, until the secession of Serbia, it had a completely different character. He says: "This agreement is applied, on the one hand, to the territories to which contracts established by the European Community and the European Atomic Energy Community are applied and in accordance with the conditions laid down in those Treaties and in Serbia's territory, on the other hand. The agreement does not apply in Kosovo, which is currently under international administration in line with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999. This does not call into question the current status of Kosovo... '". "The current status of Kosovo" at the moment the agreement was initialled. It's November 7, 2007. At the time KIM was KFOR, then there was Unmik in KIM and then KIM was Resolution 1244. As Kosovo was declared an independent state on February 17th and 22 of the 27 countries recognised an independent Kosovo, then the "now Kosovo status", as far as the European Union is concerned, in which we are now flocking with the help of this bookmaking, Kosovo and Metohija as an independent and special state. That is why the SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 135 that will define exactly what remains unsettled in resolving Serbia's state status, KIM status and any possible status that could possibly cause misunderstanding tomorrow. We are asking by amendment to be unequivocally said -- including KIM, according to Resolution 1244, as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. Come answer me, Minister. Do you accept the amendment? Accept the SRS amendment and we can go to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement vote immediately. We have many objections to this Stabilisation and Association Agreement, many of which could have been quite different, nicer, simpler and better for Serbia to be resolved. But this is the condition of all conditions. If you accept this, then we can talk. After all, the president of the SRS parliamentary group said: adopt this amendment and then we will go to the vote. One more thing before I'm done. Let's go to Europe. Come on, here's new IDs and passports. But, Mr. Minister, you put a biometric chip into both the ID and the passport. Let me ask you, by what law? I don't remember this state's parliament discussing the biometric chip law and we made a decision. If it's the government's decision, it can't. You can't personally or your government, as wrinkled as it is, make decisions. This is a matter of referendum. Eighty percent of Serbian citizens will certainly not accept your biometric chip.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1808	Thank you. The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1809	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments and People's Parliaments, the Honored Presidents, the Presidency, we have a historic agreement ahead of us, and this is one of those sessions that decides on the course this country will take in the coming years and decades. That is why it is indeed for regretting the atmosphere in which this debate is taking place. It is devastating that there is no consensus in this country about where this country should go. The inconclusive inadequacy of individual actors and the fact that this session has been interrupted for six weeks, that it has continued without any change, that some do not want to understand the flows the country has to move and should move and that some are always above all of the interests of their party and not the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is the European Union. Also, although I am a member of the ruling coalition, I must say that it is devastating and that not all the ministers of the government of the Republic of Serbia are sitting in these benches today, although we have had the opportunity to see the entire government at other sessions often, to see other state officials, and I am sorry that the whole government does not take the seriousness of this moment. What is, however, the saddest thing right now, is that this is only happening right now. Before the Republic of Serbia, all the countries that have been in the process of stabilisation and accession except BiH have done this before what we are today. Albania, for example, ratified the agreement two and a half years ago. This is tragic because Serbia really had a chance that no other country in the Balkans had, which is to be a leader in European integration. Serbia was expected to do so because it had the capacity and capabilities of resources for such a thing. She didn't take that chance. The previous two governments of Vojislav Kostunica had no will, were hypocritical of European integration and we had a lack of will for Vojislav Kostunica and the lack of determination of those who had to force him to do so, who had to insist on this earlier. I'm afraid in this country, citizens have shown greater responsibility than politicians. They clearly, their decisions in the elections, both presidential and previous parliamentary, obliged us to work as political actors in this country as quickly as possible to join the country into the European Union and therefore it is a great pleasure for the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina to support the government that finally has the strength, readiness, will and capacity to introduce Serbia into the European Union. The reasons for Serbia's accession to the European Union are numerous. Although the economic reasons here are not the most important, they are for a society like Serbia today, which is why some should be counted. The European Union, above all, represents a market of 500 million people. The European Union, with its 15 members before the big accession process, was the source of 48% of foreign direct investment in the world. The EU also encourages 18% of world trade in goods and 24% of world trade in services. The new members of the European Union have more economic growth than the old EU member states. The European Union is Serbia's largest donor. So far, since 2000, the EU has invested two billion euros in Serbia, and another billion is planned until 2011. This is, I should say, a non-refundable aid designed to create new jobs. The EU is Serbia's largest direct investor. With 7.4 billion euros, two-thirds of all foreign direct investment coming to Serbia comes from EU countries. This also means new jobs, new technologies and so on. know how to make Serbian companies competitive on the European and world market. The EU is the largest export market in Serbia because more than 55% of Serbia's exports are being made to the EU countries. The European Union has given Serbia large loans under the most favourable conditions. Thus, from 2001 to 2007, the European Bank loaned Serbia 1.3 billion euros. These loans are intended for infrastructure, road rehabilitation, bridges, railways and for support and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Some of these loans are now in front of this congregation on the agenda and, unfortunately, so far, because of the inconclusion of those political actors I spoke about at the beginning of my speech, they were not adopted. For the new EU member states, this means access to the single market, common trade policy, regional solidarity-based aid, which means even regional development. This means a common policy in different areas, such as agriculture, environmental protection, energy policy and the like. This means - the euro as soon as the conditions are met. This means the policy of the European Union in the field of justice and home affairs and what is interesting and particularly important for young people - visa reliefs, so that they can finally see what exists on the other side, because they have not had the opportunity to do so so so far. For the Social Democrats League, however, Vojvodina may even be more important to those political reasons. These are European values that come with the European Union, because the EU is not a bunch of laws to be adopted, which is, above all, respect for human rights, stable institutions, the development of democracy, the principle of subsidiarity, decentralisation, regionalisation. What Serbia needs to understand is that the EU-led conditioning policy is normal. It is something that the European Union is leading towards all countries in the accession and pre-accession period and it is not something that someone is doing because they hate Serbia or Serbs or that they are wronging anyone. These conditions, which Serbia should meet on its way to the European Union, are actually helping us to be a better society. Even if Serbia does not enter the EU, it should meet these conditions because it means stable institutions, an effective and cheap administration that will not represent citizens' additional costs but will help them live in this country, that means free market, competition on the market, respect for human rights, security. The European Union is not always tough in its terms, which Serbia, perhaps better than all other countries, has had the opportunity to see. Serbia has continued its European integration process on several occasions, failing to meet EU requirements. I am afraid that by now the European Union has done more than Serbia has done in the process of European integration and in order for Serbia to join the EU. The first test for this assembly and for this assembly majority to show its European commitment will be when the AP Vojvodina statute is found before it. At that time, this assembly will have the opportunity to show whether it accepts all European values or accepts them selectively, because decentralisation is one of the basic European values, and the principle of subsidiarity is set as one of the basic principles on which the European Union rests. The principle of subsidiarity means that everything that can be solved at local level and solved locally, that anything that can be solved at regional level is not transmitted at national level, all that cannot be solved at other two lower levels is solved at national level, and only those topics are transmitted to the European level and only those problems that cannot be solved by the Member States themselves. As good as the principle of subsidiarity may be, it may show experiences from Vojvodina. Last year, Vojvodina achieved 40 projects from the European Union Fund and thus received 90m euros. It is devastating that the chance was not given by citizens and Nis, citizens of Užica, citizens of Cačka or citizens of any other part of Serbia because they have no way to access these funds. However, it should be said that Vojvodina could get much more because she had the capacity to do so, but she could not apply herself to the European Union funds, but had to do so through someone in Belgrade who at that time decided what the citizens of Vojvodina needed, how much they needed and when they needed it. It is necessary to allow the citizens of Vojvodina, or citizens of all other parts of Serbia, to set their own priorities and apply themselves to the European Union funds because they will thus take responsibility for their lives and their ability to regulate the environment in which they live. Vojvodina should be an example and an example to others because all citizens of the Republic of Serbia can have the right to influence the quality of their lives and to improve their lives. Therefore, the new Statute of Vojvodina must guarantee her the right to apply for the European Union funds, and that example should be followed by other regions because no one knows better than the citizens living in a particular territory what they need. A multilingual, multi-confessional and multinational Vojvodina should be a bridge between the European Union and Serbia. It should be the one, as politicians in Belgrade like to say when they come for votes in Vojvodina -- the most European part of Serbia, and this assembly should unequivocally show its European commitment, should show that it accepts all European values rather than accept them selectively and that there will be no exceptions on Serbia's path to the European Union. That is why LSV MPs will, of course, support the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because we know that this is the first step towards Europeanising our country and creating a truly democratic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1810	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure are advertised by Mr Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1811	At first, I just need to inform you that when you advertise or someone complains that the injured Rules of Procedure is inevitably producing the consequence that the chairman has made some mistake. A good example is a previous discussion. No one on the planet could have affected the discussion of the previous speaker. Why did I answer that? I answered because I believe that full exposure has been initiated with disrespect for Rule 104 of our Rules of Procedure. What's this about? I don't mind my predecessor expressing great pleasure in supporting the government and perhaps having consequences in his party since the party's president said he had to eat... And now they're making him like a cook. But that's their thing and let them discuss it in the context of their Euro-Dunnavian integration in the cafe on Spence, etc. It doesn't matter. The important thing here is to promote a dangerous thesis. Thesis is based on the fact that someone expressed great satisfaction that we could finally see Mr. Djelic after flying to the National Assembly and that it was allegedly someone who was guilty that the National Assembly had not worked for several weeks. I remind you of something that has been widely known, and it is clear to all of us, there has been an interruption of the work of the National Assembly in connection with the decision of the President of the National Assembly. I don't know if you're calling us now because we didn't drag the president and secretary of the National Hall by the sleeve or if you're asking us to chase them these six weeks, to say, "Come to the National Assembly, come to the National Assembly." Then you'd send the police against us. You just don't fight, you don't run. I can't possibly influence it when you show up at B92 or at RTS and there you develop your merciful ideas that have nothing to do with reason, but the National Assembly must have some dignity. After all, I have to draw your attention to how someone was kidnapped and delivered where human rights were not respected. The second reason is so the public doesn't know who killed Ranko Panic. You had a few days ago to hear the provisions of the law that you voted for, which says: the use of bats - the report, the use of rubber bullets - forbidden, firearms - is known how to use it. It's got to be a report. The minister tells us that there is no report and then you turn it all around – like, someone else did it. Who's to blame? First Vice President, Vice President. This is probably the second vice president, although neither one is the constitutional category. What are you talking about here? Of course, I don't want to talk about what I don't think is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but it is the absence of sound reasoning, of those nebulists about the statutes of the AP Vojvodina and a good example for everyone else, that they too go with statutes, or about subsidiarity. With that in us, you could not be a member of the SRS Executive Board, let alone the Master of European Integration, mastered Nenada Chanka.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1812	There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1813	The legal basis for reporting is Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, and it's really hard to listen to the representatives of this NATO Infantry as they suffer us here with falseness, as they carry out very dangerous counter-constitutional thesis without man responding to it. You know, said counterpart Krasic, you're trying again, Mrs Jerkov did it earlier, very often some of you are trying here, especially in the media, to convince the citizens of Serbia that someone here is obstructing the work of parliament. Whenever such an insinuation is carried out here, we will report and remind the citizens of Serbia that the ruling coalition is obstructing parliament's work. You are doing this very consciously and because of you Parliament has not worked this long, because you are actually stalling as long as possible, you will not find the next point on the agenda, which is a gas agreement which is a problem in the large part of the ruling coalition, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. But that's what we'll talk about when it comes to that. And don't ever explain to us again, to praise us these European values, to praise us European countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence. Look, open an official website of Great Britain and you will see a large map of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija there. Do we need to make some close co-operation with that country? We Serbian radicals think it's inadmissible. You're saying it's terrible that there's no consensus on the adoption of this agreement. The scariest thing is, fellow Members, there is no consensus when it comes to Serbia's territorial integrity. Not only when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, but what you tried to push through as a story about some new Vojvodina statute, about inviting others, as you say, to the region. Where did you get the regions in Serbia, Mrs. Jerkov? There's no such thing in the Constitution, you have no right to spread from this place some sort of anti-constitutional fantasy and thesis. You're talking about European values here. Are European values respecting human rights, what you said two days ago in a newspaper? Mrs Jerkov, who advocates European values, should have said, it was nice to abolish the SRS and today we would not have any problems in parliament. Well, it won't work, Mrs. Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1814	Mr. Shormaz has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1815	Also Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Young lady, and Hitler took off on propaganda, became very popular in his people, but it is known how he ended up. Propaganda is not all that will help you. One day it will cost you what you do and what your propaganda teams do. Believe me, there's gonna be a day to collect that. What you said now is embarrassing, a lie. This government has not passed any European law. Right, Mr. Vice President? None have yet been brought by the Assembly, the majority of the congregation, the Government (you are ruling, gentlemen). Over 250 were brought by the first government of Vojislav Kostunica, all praised by the European Union. The World Bank said Serbia was the first country to reform in the region at the time. The IMF also praised us. The first government of Vojislav Kostunica, I am not talking about the second, where Bozidar Djelic was. The biggest economic growth was at that time - 7.6% on the annual level. But propaganda is propaganda. That's what I heard from President Boris Tadic, and for God's sake from Bozidar Djelic, that what the DSS said participated in, that Vojislav Kostunica was involved. Right, they voted at the government's session. What happened after that? Yesterday, Boris Tadic came out of Solana grey, and Solana refused to make a statement. You don't know what happened? It happened that Kosovo's unilateral independence was declared, to inform you, since you do not know, the president of the ZES parliamentary group. So Kosovo's unilateral independence has been declared, 21 EU countries have recognised Kosovo. Yesterday, Boris Tadic was asked not to ask for an opinion in the UN Assembly, let alone to sue countries that have recognised what we are looking for. We were asked to recognise the Eulex to make the state of Kosovo. Because criminals are incapable of making courts and police downstairs, they need Eulex, they need the European Union, they need their donations, they need the donor conferences, they need the money they're giving them. Who are you telling the colorful lies? Rapid EU integration? It's not gonna happen. You're lying to the citizens of Serbia. Until Kosovo is as an independent state ready to enter, the EU will never see us. It's precisely because of yesterday's naive speech by MP G17 plus. Well, why would they deprive money, why would they admit, why would they implement Eulex down there and why would they do all that, and why would they even publicly say that they see Kosovo's European perspective? You can tell colorful lies, but there'll be a charge, believe there'll be a charge. You're talking about human rights, that's the European Union. Where is the right to the life of Panic? Who took his life? Which boot did the police kill him? When are we gonna know that? You're looking, you're spreading your eyes. I remind you, Dragan Jocic was a police minister for four years and no one died on the demonstrations, and there were far more dangerous demonstrations. Has anyone been killed by the police during Dragan Jocic? Come out and say it and you'll get the answer. So no one got hurt. And I'm going to remind you that we had March 17th, and I'm going to remind you that we had a Milosevic funeral, and there were far more tensions than this SRS rally. How many high-risk games and did anyone get killed by the police? Nobody. In Serbia, it is obvious that police only die when the minister of police is from the SPS. You voted him. It was never killed in Serbia by police but only when he is a minister. You promised that Serbia would not return to the 1990s. What is this if it's not back in the '90s? What is this if it's not a disrespect for human rights? There'll be a day to collect, propaganda can't do everything. There's something that's facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1816	The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1817	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, the legal basis for which I appear is Article 104, and I would like to refer briefly to Mrs Jerkov's discussion. She said somewhere at the end of her discussion that she came from part of Serbia, that is, the northern Serbian province, which is considered the most European part of Serbia. I don't think that's a good thing, but that's what she said. I'm from Dimitrovgrad. Dimitrovgrad is located in the Pyrot County. The pyrotic district is the southeast part of Serbia and I guess I can say that I come from a district that applies to at least a European part of Serbia. So in the future, when you mention your district, please state the degree of Europeanization in that district of yours. Miss Jerkov also said that there is a devastating atmosphere in this room and we are discussing such an important document. I'd say it's a devastating fact that Miss Jerkov doesn't take this high house as a place to talk, first of all, about the laws that are on the agenda. True, this agreement is a significant law, and it is our duty and it is our duty for all MPs and MPs to say what they think about the proposed law. So, I ask Miss Jerkov to understand that when we talk and point each other to certain members of some laws, it's not a devastating atmosphere. The devastating atmosphere would be if all 250 MPs thought the same thing about a thing. I guess that would suit them the most. What is devastating is that we have been talking about this for a long time and we are trying to point you to Article 135, which, when you ratify this agreement, will mean that Serbia indirectly recognises independent Kosovo. That's devastating. It's devastating that you won't understand, which you don't understand what will come later. Later, it will appear that Serbia will be asked to recognise this independent Kosovo in order to become an EU candidate, that you will be served the story of Serbia not developing good neighbourly relations, so we will talk again here, but there will be no satisfaction because you will waste opportunities, which existed earlier, to talk to partners. She says Miss Jerkov is excellent with this pressure from the EU, that this conditioning policy is the best thing that has happened to Serbia, that the EU has done much more on the Europeanisation of Serbia and our European integration path. (President: Time. I'll finish right away. Please, no EU country has asked to give up its provinces. Ms. Jerkov believes this is excellent, which 21 countries have recognised independent Kosovo and solved Serbia's ballast, and while we're saying this, the EU is installing the Eulex mission and is working to build an independent Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1818	Thank you. The word is Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1819	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 104. In these two days, when we listen to discussions about these important points of the agenda, gentlemen from the position, it prevails on whether they do not know, understand or try all the time to explain to us some literary speeches, as specifically Miss Jerkov, as if there were written orders from the Serbian language, so the teacher gave the topic 'How I See the Way to the EU'. Everything seems to me to be about suppressing fear of how and how we want to join the EU. But I'm no expert on that. Madam President of Parliament is an expert, she will explain to you what it means to suppress fear. I'll start in a row, from the Deputy Prime Minister, who was so hot yesterday, as if at some football game (Mr. Djelic, for the other day we're playing with the Faeroe Islands in the stadium), he cried out like this: let's go to victory, etc. I think it's said more than once here -- come on, come on -- like it's a kid's novel, Heidi, and I think the position representatives here are explaining to us some things that don't have any fundamental, legal or political basis. Some MPs here today spoke of an Inquisition period, when some parts of Europe, in which we would like to enter in a way that is not worthy of the Serbian people. Serbia made its monasteries during that period. Milutin, 1282, Gracanica, Kosovo, Pecko Patriarchy, Zic, Sopocana. We were dealing with it at the time. So it can't be, as Professor Micunovic explains today, that in cultural terms we need someone to arrive. We've proven a long time ago that we're in Europe and there's no dilemma. Our differences are only in how we want to enter Europe. We have repeatedly tried to tell you that it is only in the way that each citizen of Serbia should behave, respecting his Constitution, which is together with our territory, comprehensively, with Kosovo. You are persistent in some stories, praises about Europe, which is not disputed, trying to cover up this topic that we are trying to explain to you, what is the essence and how you enter Europe. You must respect the fact that on February 17th, these changed circumstances occurred. It is legal violence, not respect for international law. Respect that fact and admit that's the case. It won't hurt much. I think that this way you would really show a minimum of tolerance to the Constitution, to our country, to the offspring, and to everything I exposed yesterday. Don't just tell us we need to get into Europe. It enters Europe, Mr. Djelic, European. We need to understand that some things. Like you're talking about the factory... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... "Fiat," so you said we should do it in June, then in July, at the end of this month. I agree with the excellent social programs that you provided for in Kragujevac, but I ask you to offer such social programs to the first five-year-olds in Tristenik and Magnochroma workers in the Kingdom. Don't just make a partial offer where you currently have a political interest. Some things have been brought out here, that the first dog asylum was made in Kragujevac – that is not true, a year and a half ago a dog asylum was made for the King. Therefore, do not boast of certain things that are not so important.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1820	MP Zlata Djeric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1821	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. I just want to say a little bit. I come from that most European region or province, the northernmost part of Serbia, and it's not exactly that pink. It's not like there's a lot of honey and milk flowing from these funds in Vojvodina. We in Vojvodina share the fate of other parts of Serbia and also have difficulty living. One of the things that is very current in Vojvodina at this point, we said that agriculture is a strategic branch, is that farmers sold 16 dinar corn last year from the fields last year, and now that corn, which they kept for a year, sold nine. Calculate how much they lose per hectare and calculate when they will recover from it. I'm interested in how many of these European funds they're going to see and whether they're going to see, because, after the resonation of an ordinary man, a citizen, first of all, free cheese exists only in a mouse hunter, but I wanted to say something else. It's not good to spread any anti-constitutional ideas or anti-constitutional attitudes from this booth. What we need to know and what's good is that Parliamentarian Jerkov said, is that Europe's policy is a conditioning policy. We have clearly said that we are for EU accession. I welcome what the Deputy Prime Minister has said, that we are entering as equal, only we do not see it. That has to be proved. We are not equal because Europe offers us an agreement in which it flagrantly violates our Constitution and asks us to break it, too, asking us to accept it. Mr Solana said he would welcome us into the EU under one condition, and then state even three-acting democracy (under which there can be a billion different terms, blackmail and conditions), an efficient market economy (there will be something less, but there are many conditions) and one concrete, co-operation with The Hague tribunal. So there can be a lot of conditions here. What we expect is to be specified, not to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to join the EU, but to enter equally, not to crawl. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1822	Thank you. Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1823	I'm reporting for an officer. 101, 103 and 104. I will not dispute with what the Messengers of the people say. There are obvious differences in our view of this important issue, and we really do not think that it is appropriate for us to deem any of the arguments presented by those who consider this to be not a good arrangement for Serbia. We simply think that it is the right of every MP and that it is not even polite to comment on everyone's position on it. The reason I came out was something that was said and that, apart from being false, is essentially very dangerous. So, I went out to react to the fact that someone accused us, that our police killed a man. I'm saying that we've inherited this police force, and that's why we're going to reform the police so that no police will ever hurt anyone, and especially the people who demonstrate and express their views, that that's why we insisted on getting a full report on the responsibility of every police officer, to determine the culprits and to give the strictest measures. I'm not saying it's anyone's fault that anyone is responsible for what happened, we're just asking that the police never be such that they can abuse or exceed force or hurt any citizen who shows their views.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1824	Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1825	Mrs. Kolundjia, the truth is, you didn't ask for that report. You had a month and a few days to come with a final report and present it to the MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly. We asked for a report. I don't think that's any advantage, but these are undeniable facts. What you had in mind, what we're trying to tell you and what we're going to prove, is that someone organized riots in Belgrade during the SRS rally in advance, planning to challenge a riot, to bring down Belgrade, regardless of the consequences of both participants in the rally and in Belgrade, and wanting to use it to accuse the SRS. You can best see that right after the rally, how all those experts who came on a variety of TV to liquefy, those who allegedly fought the dictatorial regime for 20 years, were thrilled that the police had emptied the square in 10-20 minutes, where there were 20 or 30 or any number of thousands of people. Therefore, that is what is undeniable. One more thing, Mrs. Kolundjia, you can't say if someone's guilty or not guilty. Someone must be guilty. The moment a man died, he died, when he was killed, call it whatever you want, someone has to answer for it. The moment the MP got the rubber bullet, someone had to answer. It's someone's fault for beating up the MPs. Or do you think the participants of the rally were among themselves? No, they're all injuries sustained by the police. And as for your reforms, please don't reform us anymore. You've been reforming us for eight years and look where the state has come from. I'm going to give you undeniable facts, there's time, that not only do you not intend to reform yourself, but you're even more rigid and to a greater extent you abuse the police, and in particular you abuse the security services. Let me inform you, gentlemen. There are more than two months since I asked the BIA, the Supreme Court and the MUP for some actions, which I have information that were done in 2001. It is about listening to a larger number of people, who were conducted by the then State Security Service (by the BIA Act, everything SDB did had now passed into BIA jurisdiction) and, behold, for more than two months I have not even received an answer whether or not these actions were or were not. The Supreme Court has sent a reply within seven days that they have not approved the listening of those persons, the MUP has no record since it has passed their jurisdiction under the BIA Act. So I conclude from all of this that not only do you have no intention of reforming yourself, but you have abused and you intend to abuse yourself. In order to make it more clear to you what I'm saying, based on these actions carried out by the SDB at the time, there may be some indirect data. There may be some who are sitting in the Serbian Assembly who know about these actions, because the question is -- if these actions were approved, from whom were they approved? Another more serious question arises - who used information from these actions? I'll tell you that if we get this information (and I think it's especially important for DS), we could somehow come up with some facts regarding the murder of Zoran Djindjic. Don't read the newspaper and come up with some alleged transcripts of various conversations of Zoran Djindjic himself and his surroundings, etc. Why would we do that? Let's try to get to the facts. Let them say that those actions have not been implemented, and I tell you in advance that we can eliminate it. Maybe there are people who took part in those actions. We're going to start a survey committee and we're going to call (they can, in fact, be freed from keeping secrets) one man from the SDB at the time who would confirm that. You would open an extremely serious topic. When you do, you don't have to tell us here that you've decided to reform. We'll know that. When we get an answer from the minister of police tomorrow, we'll know that. You'll know, too. We've done everything that's up to us, now we're waiting for your signature. If you do not honestly enter the dialogue and solve these problems, you yourself take responsibility for everything that happens after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1826	The word is Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1827	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 226 and joining Mrs. Kolundji. The police and all security services should be reformed. To that end, I want to make my modest contribution, by asking the question I asked in the last term. I've directed him to Minister Jocic, whom I wish all the best and quick recovery. The man did not answer, but now I want to refer that question to you too, so we will see as part of the police reform and BIA how you will do it, because this issue is currently from your period, when the prime minister was Zoran Djindjic, and Police Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, when the mafia ruled most in Serbia. Dragoljub Markovic, Ceda Jovanovic and Ljubisa Buha – The plagues began after October 5th, Mrs Kolundzija, already in December with trade operations in the East (Turkey, Syria, Pakistan, Afghanistan) with chemicals that are part of heroin and synthetic drugs. (Do you, Miss Jerkov, want to ban the party because we're starting such sensitive issues? ) It's an anhydride of vinegar acid and (I have to admit, I don't even know what this is) BNK. The supply canals were from the Netherlands, and the whole business had already been worked out because the Chume had done so before the change of power. According to available data, about 42 tanks of these chemicals were made. Ceda Jovanovic designed to invest millions of capital in legal flows and wash through the company "Difens Road". From such acquired capital, Ceda Jovanovic privatised the firm "Madera", which has 27 clubs throughout Belgrade, on behalf of his father-in-law, Mijat Savic. As director of Differents Road Chad, he proposed to Sasha Alex, who now lives in the United States. Asphalting machines were purchased from that capital. (That is why this independent road candidate will pave through this company, an extra-party person who won the LDP proposal in the city. ) The asphalting machines were purchased from that capital, and the cover was another firm that allegedly took them through the Commercial Bank. When the D.A. started the process of buying machinery, then the district attorney was Rade Terzic, who was directly influenced by Ceda Jovanovic, the case came to the processing of the then-Terzic deputy. Jovanovic pressured the said person twice by threatening the dark forces of Surcin unless the indictment proposal was rejected and thus misused its position. The threats failed, but for the third time intervention and pressure went through Radet Terzic (and you know how he was arrested, how he was released), who took over the case and suspended the procedure. Can Hope Kolundji claim that you'll be reforming the police when this happened while you were in power and when crime was most flourishing? I ask this question to the police minister and other competent authorities in the Serbian government, as well as to the minister of justice, as well as to the judicial authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1828	Mr. Shormaz has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1829	He's running away from Hope Kolundji, but it doesn't matter, he can read in his stenographic notes. First, the police in Serbia are good, if we trust the European Union. It is best in the region of Southeast Europe, which is also the European Union's assessment. The reform has been carried out. Borders have been taken over from the military, border police have been made, a police law has been passed, according to the European Union. These are reforms. What you call reform is shifts. You know what? Change it, you're the government. Who's defending you? We're just waiting for your results. We have the results, there are reports on the Committee on Defence and Security, it's known in the entire state how the crime rate was, how far it's been solved and everything else. We're waiting for your results, and we've already seen them. First demonstration - a man killed. I don't blame the police, I blame you who are in power, who you put in charge of the minister of a man from the SPS who is completely incapable of doing it and who doesn't know how to do it. And something like that always happens when they're in power. There's no Veljko to ask him, he'd confirm a man for me. There are some SPO gentlemen, let them say if it's always been so. It's symptomatic that it's happening again. You said we wouldn't go back to the '90s if you won. What's going on? Murders every day on the street. Was that during Dragan Jocic? How many criminals are afraid of the edge of Dacic and you as authorities? Why would they be afraid of you? Some of them are friends. Not that there are murders going on, but they're cutting heads off. And not just that. A newspaper criminal, on the front page, announces that the Serbian mafia will be introduced into the European Union before the state enters it. Did someone bring him in? Has anyone talked to him? What are you talking about? Who do you teach class to? The day of charge will come, you'll be free of propaganda.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1830	The word is Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1831	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure by Rule 104 - the dignity of the Assembly. Please, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, it is not the first time you have allowed the insult of both the late Zoran Djindjic and the head of our parliamentary group. I appeal to you that by your conduct and at least in part by applying the Rules of Procedure, if you are unable to respect the Rules of Procedure, please enable the work of the National Assembly. A very important topic is on the agenda, it is a ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I appeal to the ruling majority to try to make an effort to bring the SRS and the DSS to this agreement because from their discussions, or at least most of their MPs, to conclude that they are pro-European-oriented, that they may vote under certain conditions. The conditions are contained in the amendment of the SRS, it could be some sort of statement from the Assembly, said our head of the parliamentary group yesterday, but let's get back to the agenda. Because apparently among them are those who would vote, I am counting and I listened carefully to the head of the parliamentary group yesterday, with your previous partners in power, the DSS, there are also some pro-European indications that they are all for Europe. A small effort would lead to the agreement getting indeed over 200 votes in this assembly, which is good for the country and should take advantage of their mood or individual mood among them. I won't answer the charges that are being heard here, obviously from those who wouldn't want this ratified, but I believe they're in the minority and that there's a stronger party with them and that they're going to listen to their heads or heads of Parliament. So, I ask you, Madam President, to respect the minimum rules of procedure and to prevent the insult of other MPs and the dignity of this House. I ask you from the ruling majority to make a small effort, there seems to be a chance of calling for a vote on the agreement and it will be good for Serbia. It would not be good for Serbia to say a gas deal gets more votes than this historic agreement that literally ends with Serbia's totalitarian past. After all, they want to vote, so they say. We enable them and we will see who wants it among them, who does not want it and whether this way of obstruction, which we now see from individual MPs, will produce results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1832	Thank you. The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1833	Thank you, Madam President. You may not have paid attention at the moment, but I was certainly looking for a word before my colleagues, not having to raise my hand but only to speak discreetly and nicely to the lady and she gives me her word when I come to order. Mr. Stayer, I was really scared for you when you left from above to go. This is some sort of slope, you know, I don't know what angle it's at and how many degrees it's got here, but you managed to get to the assembly pay phone, and by the time you got here, then I need to inform you of something I've heard you're pretty interested in. I don't know if Col. Krasic was able to deliver you, perhaps gifts, or sell you a book for symbolic 600 dinars, "The Murder of Mafia Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic". I heard you asked to buy a book. Every...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1834	Miss Natasha, please take care of the terms you use.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1835	I don't know what you're talking about, Mrs. Slavice. I really don't understand you. You're from Kragujevac, living in the center of town. Last week, in our Kragujevac, mine and yours, it was quite regular (a group reported to the police) held in a crowded hall of the Shumadi City Hall, with a presence, I called for some fellow SPS members and responded to come, 1200 people were at the Shumadi Hall, we sold, because at that moment we only had 90 books "The Murder of the Mafia Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic". I promised many Kragujevci that as many of my options allow, I would give them that book. Mr. Ostojić, here, I promise you, if you haven't bought it, I will make an effort during tomorrow, and since I have this symbolic authority, I will sign it for you, I will give you the dedication, and finally I will give you Professor Seselj when he returns. When he returned from The Hague, where you sent him, you, Cedomir Jovanovic, then Prime Minister, Police Minister Vladan Batic, Nebojsa Covic and others, who asked Carla del Ponte at the end of 2002 and dragged her to write the indictment and take him to The Hague and, as Djindjic said, never to return him. And for what? Well, because of the fact that he was in 2001, Mr. Jadranko had only a little time, and at that promotion we talked a lot and a lot about it, he was only part of the link between direct crime from the top of the government with the Surcin mafia, later the Zemun and Surrin clan, taking out this data. These are facts that have been unequivocally established. You can say whatever you want now. The wheel of history is turning, you know, and sooner or later generations behind us about this disgrace and shame, in which Serbia was found during the state of emergency, to read. I have to remind my colleague, Shormaz, that from here, from the MP's bench, that's when the top of the DSS started, headed by Dejan Mihajlov, to look for Radet Bulatovic and Mr. Ac Tomic. Is that right? During their state of emergency, they did not know where they were then a party colleague, later BIA director and military intelligence director. Where were those people? Buried two feet underground, put leeches down on their heads and put plastic bags on their heads. What are you talking about? You're talking about going in and integration and having, like, individual cases with us, so you're "peeking" from this place. I don't know what you can even see, maybe white mice at this point, not who's for the European Union and who's not. Please don't teach us that. Someone said you'd take pictures, some of them, under the Eiffel Tower. I took a picture there when I was 10 or 15 years old. This guy was born there, so nothing's helping him, right? Well, you didn't, Djelic, but where you were staying... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Okay. If you were born, Mr. Minister, in Belgrade, and later went to Paris, that doesn't mean that you know more, even though you are one of their students, of us who have lived here our whole lives. Right? In any case, you can't speak -- they've radicalized some retrograde forces, they're thinking in a way that's not good for Serbia. We don't have a reserve state, unlike all of you. It's easy, Djelic. He's got three passports in his pocket. At this point, right now, he can think about where he's going, I just don't know if you can go more to Russia or the Czech Republic, after they put a red seal on you, Mr. Djelic, when you were deported in the late '90s. We don't have a spare homeland and we want to keep Serbia as an eye in our heads and fight for its preservation. In this, the difference between us and you, Mr. Ostojić, between the fact that only money and the destruction of wealth, robbery and kidnapping were important for the regime you belonged to and which you now support, and for us the most important honor, truth, honesty and, above all, the ideology of the party that has been leading us for 18 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1836	Mr. Free Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1837	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, came forward for the violation of Article 104 which was done during the address of Mr. Jadranka and also just before when the Vice-President of the Assembly took out a repertoire that we have been used to hearing from her last days. What Mr. Jadranko Vukovic said, of course, is not true. It would be very interesting to know where he got what he was just reading, who gave it to him, etc. What Miss Jovanovic said earlier, that this was unequivocally determined, is the biggest lie possible. We're used to hearing it from you, so the end of your speech is to appeal to truth, justice and everything else, a colorful lie for all citizens of Serbia. Anyway, I'm interested in something else, so I hope someone in the SRS can answer me here. Which electricity within your party spoke from Mr. Jadranka Vukovic's mouth, i.e. Miss Natasha Jovanovic. Is that the current of Vojislav Seselj, is that the current of Vojislav Kostunica, is that the power of the state security service, or BIA? Is this some kind of service that we don't know is legitimate in this country? When Mr. Nikolic, who is the president of your parliamentary group, is not in this room, in which case there is such a fallout. So you're not telling the truth, you're insulting not only the people's messengers, but all those who are watching. Please, President of the Assembly, take care. You did it earlier in one moment, but you had a real chance to do it and when Mr. Vukovic, before Natasha Jovanovic, presented all these false and false accusations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1838	The word is Mr. Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1839	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 101. The Rules of Procedure and I want to use the MP's right to reply, given that, on several occasions, in the last hour, the SPS has been put in a negative context. Regardless of the lucidity, supremacy and academic eloquence of Mr. Shormaz and some others, I ask you to return, however, if possible, to the agenda that we have started the debate, to point out to the people of Serbia what we do, what they can expect after adopting these points of the agenda, and not to engage in demagogy, pulsism and gulfing some political points. Of course, this manner is legitimate and insignificant to some of the parliamentary groups, but in any case it does not produce any major political effect. That's why I'm really taking the opportunity to appeal to you not to mention the ability or incompetence of one of the ministers or the Home Secretary. We have accepted the fact, all together, that we will receive a comprehensive report from the MUP because of those events related to July 29th, as we have received knowledge and that all those who are, and if they are found to have exceeded their powers, will be severely sanctioned. I think Mr. Shormaz, who also had trouble with traffic regulations, is the last one who can talk about home affairs. I also ask you, because I want to raise the level of discussion here to a truly civilized higher level, to come up with arguments and not talk about topics that aren't on the agenda. If you want to continue, it's your right, but I think there are a lot more important issues to discuss here today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1840	Mr. Ostojić reported to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1841	I didn't use any bad words, I didn't say anything offensive, and I caused Mrs. Jovanovic's reaction. It is obvious that this current, which the lady belongs to, is not used to polite words, but to others. Mrs. Jovanovic, I got a book, not from you, but from someone else in the SRS (from another current, probably) and I have to tell you honestly: and if you offered me something other than a book, I would hardly accept it from you, although your heels look good on you. As for Seselj, we LDP will never call upon his death, as you have been doing for several weeks here. Because, after all, I have to tell you, on second thought, I see a similarity between Naser Oric, Haradinaj and Seselj. You know what the resemblance is? All three of them volunteered to go there, no one sent them, they went alone. These two went out, so that's where I see maybe a chance for Seselj, not the death you call upon. Please at least stop making that leader of yours die from this pay phone. Let the court do its job. The sheik left with honor and honesty, alone, like these two. If these two were released, I think it's scandalous that they were released and that it would be scandalous for that to happen to Seselj, but there's a chance for Seselj. Therefore, I urge us to return to the Agreement. You have an amendment. The head of your parliamentary group said that you would vote in favour of the Agreement if that amendment were accepted, it is up to the ruling majority to end it with you. After all, you feel the same about Kosovo, you have brought the Constitution together, and why now about this historical law and ratification of so much evil blood just because one girl left the groom and left with another? Please, the state deserves more. This poor Serbia deserves a consensus on European integration. Therefore, I would like to appeal that we continue the debate. If we're tired, then it'll be a quick lunch, then at least after lunch, we'll go back to the European integrations that we're all for, and it looks like Mrs. Jovanovic's electricity.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1842	The word is Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I would like to make a constructive proposal to facilitate the work of this assembly and allow some MPs at least to reach this pay phone. I suggest you suggest that you propose to the services that they hit the white line here and put some handles on the benches because, however, we can get into a situation where they fall, hurt themselves, and I assume that the Serbian Parliament would be responsible for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1844	The word is Mr. Jadranko Vukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1845	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have answered the line. Mr. Ostojić didn't call me, but he said we're not delivering this information at the pay phone. Mr. Marash said these were false. I just want to say to my colleague, "This is what I got." There's more to it. I'm not going to talk until I get an answer. I ask, as an MP, that this be determined in the interest of truth and justice, that this question be answered. Is this true? Mr. Maras, if this isn't true, Jadranko Vukovic promises here in front of everyone that I will go out and apologize publicly. This is true, Mr. Marash. There's more black stuff. And as for the current, and your problem is that you're electrocuted by Shessel's current, one is the only Shessel's current, no more.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1846	The word is Mr. Shormaz, after the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1847	Article 101 and Article 104. Mr. Rose, did you threaten me? You know what I'm gonna tell you? I may not know how to drive, but I didn't have a suitcase in the car. You know what else I'm gonna tell you? Ivica Dacic doesn't know he's running the police, and that's my right, as a MP, to say the least. Do you understand that? Do you know what the rights of the Messengers of the people are? Can you even understand that? We've been trying for eight years... Well, we at the DSS gave you the first hand, to learn what democracy is. Here, we don't want to talk about abilities, let's talk about morality. You could have learned from your older colleagues, you could have been a little more moral. Radmilo Bogdanovic resigned when a student and a police officer were killed on 9 March, and you spent a month distracting Serbia with a working group. What kind of task force? There are laws, there are internal police (police for the police to understand). Who's doing his job here? There's footage, there's witnesses, there's probably prosecutors in this country. What kind of task force are you kidding? You're going to reform the police?- I'm sorry. Four percent, according to the'strategic', favors you and 'yellows'. None of you will stay at the end, because you did not learn from Radmil Bogdanovic and because you have an incompetent Hansel Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1848	The word is Mr. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can say that the second day I have been listening to certain MPs who are heartily supporting this agreement with the EU. The worst, not only do they give that support, but they invent, dream, create some utopia in Serbia that no longer exists. Here, one of our colleagues comes out for this pay phone and says that since they came to power the democratic party on October 5th, we have used EU funds, we have received some billions of euros, we are reducing unemployment, and it is enough just to go to the website of the Republic Statistics Institute and determine how many are really unemployed and whether it is less than or less than October 5, 2000. They say we are getting terribly favourable loans and loans from the EU. And that says someone who doesn't understand credits, banking and finance at all. Since I know that they often travel abroad, let them look at the bank's windows and see in these windows that the loans received by EU citizens, investment loans, are far more favourable than those obtained by the state, which has far stronger security to repay the loan. Since I know they saw that too, I'm sure I can tell from this pay phone that they're lying about everything they say when it comes to thanking the European Union. You say - law, judicial reform, we want their standards. Some of the MPs here come out and say the Inquisition was abolished in the Middle Ages. Who made that up? Here's your Inquisition in The Hague. What if it's not the Inquisition? Is that the kind of system of rights and values you want to bring to Serbia from the 'European bloc', what do you call yourself, and we're adding 'the thief'? You say administration. Let's look at that administration, which has grown so much since 5 October, that it's bigger than the SFRY administration, and you have to agree that it was a far more serious state than the one you're leading now. You've filled all the buildings, you've got nowhere else to sit in the administration. You also filled the Federation Palace, and buildings in Germany, you take and rent buildings from local self-government to get your aunts, uncles, and who you're already hiring, inventing and opening agencies everywhere. Is this a reduction in the administration, a reduction in the costs offered by the EU? You started an agency for the establishment of agencies. It's a shame. For this troubled and poor people, shame. But we will discuss these economic matters and agreements when it comes to these counterguarantees and international agreements that do not concern this item of the agenda. Let's start over, when this is more important to me now than that financial view of this agreement, which is KIM. Many speakers here came out and wondered how some had changed their political stance and felt that an agreement with the EU, as it is, was not to be signed and participated in the development of the agreement. I can't say it's not true that they participated, but then there was no declaration of an independent state of Kosovo and Metohija. At that time, the EU did not recognise a self-proclaimed, unilaterally declared state of Kosovo, a false state. That's the reason. And why don't you, when you go out for this pay phone, start with that assumption? Or do you fear the citizens of Serbia for what you do, and from that fear continue to lie? I can also say that it is a lie that the EU has not recognised KIM. Maybe it's not on the legal-formal side, but on the essential side and the way it is. Because who founded Eulex? The European Union. Where's Eulex? In Kosovo. Is the UN Charter and UN Resolution taking over the responsibilities of the UN administration? He's taking over. To what end? Implementation of Marty Ahtisaari's plan. What is the goal of Marty Ahtisaari's plan? Kosovo's independence. Who gives independence to Kosovo if not the EU together with the United States? Why do you stick your head in the sand like a noose in that fact? But let's say the European Union is strong, and the United States is strong, and it's hard to fight them, although you're not, but I can't help but wonder why, at least once, while Kosovo's independence has been prepared and while you've been making this agreement, at least one of you in the DS has not said, even if you lied to the European Union -- if you recognize the kiM cold relations between Serbia and the EU. That didn't occur to you. You've been trading, gentlemen. It's just, instead of buying, you were selling. Instead of saying - how much does it cost to keep KIM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia? You said, "How much do you give up KIM?" That's your problem, gentlemen from the democratic, thieving, European bloc. When it comes to the EU, I ask you - what have we got from them for all these years? Money? I don't remember, except these weird loans. Bombs? Yes, because most EU members participated in NATO aggression on Serbia in 1999. The abduction of Kosovo? Of course. The sanctions of the 1990s, even when there were no UN sanctions, again by the EU. We won the killing of Serbs in The Hague. First, along with the same EU, with the UN Prosecutor's Office, you wrote an indictment against the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, and now you have a problem with how he defends himself, now you're trying to impose on him the defender, so at this time in The Hague, along with you, the prosecution is making an attempt on the murder of the president of the SRS. And that's why you stick your head in the sand. People, as much as you don't love someone, as sweet as your authority is, you have no right, just because someone thinks differently from you or because they're dangerous to your authority, to kill them. But that's your thing. You love power more than anything, probably because of the money and the privileges that this government brings. What else do we have from the EU? Here, out comes a colleague who, she says, is from the most European part of Serbia. The most important part of Serbia should declare a new statute, so it can get its government, so it should get its ministers in the government, so it will have the right to represent them and represent them in the world, so it says - that's decentralisation. Why isn't such decentralisation in America? Why is such decentralisation not in Germany, which is not in Austria? decentralisation is not what you say and what it says in that statute. You're getting the country's markings. And it's not true that some others couldn't and didn't apply to various funds. It is not a privilege of regions and provinces, but capable or incompetent, beautiful and others. When we look at what has happened to us in these 15 and over years, we will not see the EU the way you represent it. Because Serbia's deployment continues, first through KIM, the Statute of Vojvodina that already takes forms of statehood, here some colleagues here already represent some "Eastern Kosovo", I mean the southern part of Serbia, there are problems in the Rasko area and, if we get to the EU some years, I'm afraid we'll be reduced to "Belgrade Pashaluk", if that remains from Serbia. What I still know is that by applying this agreement, many workers will be out of work, because the few factories that have managed to survive the crisis headquarters of the yellow company and the chaotic privatisation will lose the market that we are able to defend with various customs duties. The cheaper goods from the West will come here. Someone says it's good, I say it's not because we don't want to produce anymore, we don't want to sell. That, as Mr. Minister Bozidar Djelic says... Mr. Minister, are you all right today? Yesterday I was really worried about your health here. I know, if we were gone, you'd be much better off, but unfortunately it's different. I heard from Mr. Secretary something, I was really surprised when he said - whether our construction companies would participate in international tenders. And we know, when there was a story here about the construction of the highway, that we would only participate about twenty, thirty percent because we have so much construction effect. Or maybe he meant "Difens Road," a protected witness to the Chummet and this other society, that they might be involved in the world, probably is. So, I'm afraid that we'll arrive in the EU as "Belgrade Pashaluk," if we keep it, and we'll lose our factories, we'll lose our fields, we'll lose our forests. In the EU, we will probably be able to go as tourists only, a small number of you from the "yellow company". The rest of Serbia will neither be able to go there, nor seek a job, nor as tourists, because everything you've caught has been ruined. Once again, I ask you to think carefully about the amendment submitted by Mr Tomislav Nikolic to this agreement. When all that is happening to us now, if it starts and goes wrong, at least your conscience is clear, that you've done everything in your power, so unfortunately one of these scenarios doesn't hit us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1850	The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1851	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected presidents, European integration and European values for LDP, our membership and many sympathisers truly represent the essential purpose of political action. The European Securities System, or rather European Affairs, for my fellow citizens in Priboj and most of the people in Sandzak, may be the last hope that they can live normally in these areas. If the European path to the future is not honest, quick and efficient, I fear that soon all roads will lead from the devastated Sanjay municipalities, regardless of national or religious nationality of citizens. Citizens from these multicultural, multiethnic areas have long lost their patience, disappointed that the ideas of October 5th remained in a very slow-changed Serbia's glare. Sandzak is increasingly reminding of a modern "damaged avalanche" in which only local political oligarchs living comfortably on the state's mangers see the future, while most citizens are losing hope that they will ever be a member of an EU member state. The situation I'm only going to talk about with a few facts to support. There are more than 6,000 unemployed, over 6,000 pensioners, and just about 4,000 really employed citizens. That is why, and many other reasons I have not mentioned, it is extremely important for Serbia to become a member of European peoples and states as soon as possible. In the European future and European values, the LDP sees a way out of a dreary daily life that is indeed taking a long time. The LDP, as a moto change and as a true bearer of European values, will support Serbia's European path. The LDP will vote here in the Serbian Parliament to ratify the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. At the same time, the LDP will insist on adopting a plan, agenda and a European business programme. The LDP will be the strongest critic of the authorities if the European future remains just a simple phrase and a pre-election fraud. The LDP is now publicly demanding that our members play an important role in the joint bodies, which will be formed under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In the end, I will look again at the wishes and hopes of citizens and citizens in the area of southwestern Serbia that life will happen in these border areas, not despair and despair. The LDP is a guarantee of Serbia's European future, but the helm of this European value is currently in the hands of the Serbian government, with great responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1852	The word is Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1853	Dear fellow Members of the People, we here in parliament, as well as all other state authorities, have committed all the resolutions and declarations that have been adopted so far related to KIM, so it is almost indisputable for me that the government, and the parliamentary majority, is obliged to accept the amendment of the SRS. If a representative of the government said so immediately for this speaker, we could have this debate and we could cut it short. Until that happens, I feel obliged to draw attention once again to some very important facts relating to the signing of this agreement, not entering, of course, that Mr Djelic could not formally initialise the agreement at that time because he did not have the authority of the previous prime minister, or that authority was withdrawn. I would like to draw attention to both the public and you on the fact that this trade agreement, in fact, has already entered into force and that the paragraph has a constitutional fact, since it says that it will enter into force on the first day of the second month from the date on which it is verified by the Assembly, and if that does not happen by 1 July of this year, then it is considered that it has already entered into force. So we all need to know that, in fact, legal traffic already exists and that it is considered ratified even though we talk about it post-festum, which doesn't mean that we shouldn't talk about what all the consequences it can have. Maybe I'll do it again a little bit, but I'll make sure it's brief. I think that by signing this agreement, Serbia has nevertheless fallen into a trap (which we can, here, correct) and subsequently approved an agreement with non-application and non-recognizable by the other Contracting Party (paragraph 2 of Article 135) and made it clear to the other countries that their recognition of KIM is not an obstacle to normal co-operation and the signing of international contracts in which Serbia is treated without a piece of territory, Kosovo. This creates the possibility for other Member States, both the UN and the EU, which have not done so so far, to do so afterwards, without any consequences, to do so. It should also bear in mind the obligation adopted by this comprehensive co-operation agreement with all countries in the region and those covered by the EU integration process, with Kosovo's statehood recognised by EU member states, and the construction of institutions and EU accession under the watchful eye of Eulex and the EU itself, which also relates to the good neighbourly relations of Serbia's candidates with Kosovo. It is a danger that we should take into account and should not simply approach the signing of any international agreements and agreements unless things are completely clear. So it's our job to talk about everything, to keep everything in mind, and then to decide. The agreement as an economic and political act, in my opinion and in my opinion many who are really serious about having a critical attitude, and I believe that we here should take a critical position, is the basis of Serbia's colonization through the creation of conditions of adaptation and administration, and space, and infrastructure and people to the standard of metropolis and multinational companies primarily for uninterrupted exploitation and profit-gathering. I guess it's clear to everyone, and we've all learned through history what any unification means. It's not the first time Europe has been united, it's been happening since the Middle Ages, so here we go. In Article 32, there is little reference to the exposés of the Deputy Prime Minister, the unlimited imports of agricultural products into Serbia with the power of the European Union (so-called A privileged position) to unilaterally suspend exports from Serbia in the event of border crossings affecting market stability. A member of 55th Serbia's air space is divided into a common European, that is to say, but you have forgotten internally, and all without Kosovo and Metohija. So that's where we saw their hidden intention, and that's why our insistence on that amendment is. The objective of establishing a free trade zone for Serbia and the European Union with the obligation to abolish customs duties on imports of goods originating in the EU is, of course, in favour of the EU. You said -- it would take place between two and a half years, it's like a time to adapt free trade for certain sectors of domestic industry and agriculture, with the security of foreigners, by harmonising domestic legislation with EU legislation, and by declaring the EU's opening for goods from Serbia, which, we must admit, is neither real nor minor, and if it does, it will again be restricted, which means that we are not exactly in equal relations, and we probably can't even be, always imposing weaker ones. This could be, according to some interpretation, and an access contract, so, therefore, those claims "we've done," "we've broken," "we've done" -- we haven't done much good trade. We were offered something that the government obviously wanted and had to accept. Without my own subject and resources of work, this is what economists say, and I have made an effort to observe this contract on several sides and to read what those who, unfortunately, to the media or to our press cannot come to. I would not refer to known names, Serbian intellectuals who tried to indicate the adverse consequences of this agreement. So, without its own work and resources, Serbs become only naked labour, a tool that speaks in the hands of foreign masters. That loss of economic freedom, because economic freedoms will not be, you can see how this is happening in Europe, how the Irish react, in a way, and the English react to how the Swedish reactions, as the Netherlands has reacted in time to the EU Constitution, the said loss of economic freedoms is a real basis for the total political dependence and the installation of the puppet local regime, or the continuation of conditioning and discreditation of opponents until its establishment, i.e., in the extreme case of the loss of state subjectivity, as well as cultural-religious replacement of identity. The people exercise rights through alienated representatives and Euroburocrats – those already in the EU say so. They are rebelling against this bureaucratic centralisation, Brussels, and say it is something that could also be called the central committee or similar to the central committee of the former communist party. So this is nothing new. Throughout history, we have had the opportunity to learn about the necessity of unity in Europe, based primarily on religion, on Christianity, and there has been a division and gathering around the Catholic and Orthodox churches and there has been a division between the East and the West for ever, and then there has been a Protestant church and the desire of France to dominate the world and Europe, first and foremost, and then an attempt, again, to gather Protestant states around it and to further control Austria. This has all led, you know, to the bloody wars of recent history, not to mention everything that happened in the meantime, but there is a French bourgeois revolution and many of the values we have inherited since then, which have not quite justified themselves and that are being questioned even in Europe today, and not just by us. We have come to have fascism and Nazism, and communism, which once again had the same desire, the gathering of European states for various reasons, sometimes as an opposition to the United States, sometimes because of the cold war between the former Soviets and the United States, and this, more recently, than the Council of Europe, is, above all, a gathering of European states on economic grounds, but don't forget those political and geopolitical ones, and again, the influence of the United States on that same Europe. I am warning this only because I believe that we must always be very careful because history should have taught us that caution is necessary, that we have been played several times and that we have suffered many times in the defense of that Europe. I would like to add just one more thing about the exposure of some of my predecessors who are about to defend European values spoke, I mean, in an inappropriate way, almost schizophrenic. Don't be angry, don't be offended because I call it that. Behind me is the President of the Assembly, who could confirm that I am absolutely right, because in professional terminology this symptom is called an ego disorder, or a personality split. We have different arches for many things and, while we all blame Solan, we all hate each other, or we label them equally, we all label Carla del Ponte, I believe this side and she, and all the citizens of Serbia, so no one can say that they are some bright personalities and that they want something good for us, these people are just the essences of that EU and this new world order, on the other hand, I'm talking about the people, about all of us, we view this Europe as someone who's going to bring us a golden coconut egg. So, is there something wrong with our judgment? It's missing. They brought us bombings, they brought us sanctions, they formed The Hague tribunal, they conditioned us to deliver our citizens, our entire military and political summit, our former president. Whatever he was, no country would do that. We allow people to kill us there, we don't raise our voice against human rights violations. Here in the country, they're killing people in peaceful protests. When we try to raise our voice against it, they say it's hate speech, it's all kinds of curses, I don't know what. Should we just keep quiet? Should we fully comply with what this Europe is giving us on the plate, not to raise our voice even against TV programs or American movies that TV is constantly playing, where there's blood up to our knees? Not to say kids up to 20 shouldn't even be allowed to watch that. I, right to tell you, change the channel immediately or I'd have to drink some of the sedatives, to die, so I could watch a movie like that, and the kids would sit and watch. So today we're reading in the papers, the RRA says -- maybe we should postpone the assembly sessions (only, we don't have technical means) to do it 30 seconds later, so we can cut down if we don't like what one of the radicals says. You know what, here's the president of the assembly, let him confirm, as an expert, if I'm right, if there's any of our schizophrenics though.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1854	Since it's time to take a break, let's make a deal. The break will take until 3:30 today because at 3 p.m. I will have a meeting with the heads of the parliamentary groups, and some committees are already scheduled during the break. I am taking the opportunity to inform you that the chairman of the Committee on Finance, Ms. Jorgenka Tabakovic, has scheduled a meeting of the Committee at the Blue Salon for 14.00 hours. [[After break – 15.45]] The honourable MPs, since consultations are still being held and are seeking solutions to analyse some amendments that would improve the quality of our work, will extend the rest for another ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1857	Ladies and gentlemen, no matter how we vote, in order for this agreement to become full, Serbia must commit a crime, to also arrest The Hague tribunal, Ratko Mladic, to meet all other conditions set and unset, acceptable and unacceptable, set before it by The Hague tribunal and its owners from Washington and Brussels. The ruling majority, led by the DS, argues that meeting these conditions and co-operation with The Hague tribunal is a first-class state and national interest. Facts, however, say it is a first-class national and state disgrace. Here's why. Out of the UN tribunal's total charges, three-quarters were brought against Serbs. The charges have been brought against the entire political, military and police leadership of Serbia, Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. Of the nine presidents elected by the Serb people since 1991, The Hague indictment has been brought against them seven, and only one of them, Goran Hadzic, is still at large. Two, Slobodan Milosevic and Milan Babic, were killed. Dobravica Ćosic and Zoran Lilic are not the only accused. Mr. Cosic probably because of the years, and Zoran Liliæ who didn't get involved in his business much. The Hague tribunal killed a total of 12 Serbs directly or indirectly. Practically, every sixth Serb indicted by The Hague has been killed. Did any of you hear that in the recent history of civilization one court killed every sixth suspect before the trial was completed? Such zeal was probably not recorded even during the Inquisition. The number of Serbs killed by The Hague tribunal is equal to the total number of Croatians accused, twice the number of Muslims indicted and three times the total number of Albanians charged. The number of Serbs killed in The Hague is equal to the total number of members of the Croatian, Muslim and Cypriot nations against whom judicial verdicts have been issued. There's a dozen of them. Of these, three refer to a crime against Serbs, and they are symbolic, several years in prison. A Serb from Prijedor, Dusko Tadic, was sentenced to three decades in prison for unproven murder. Croatia's Drazen Erdemovic, who has confessed to killing 125 people and has been tried on trial by 70 people, was sentenced to five years in prison because the Serbian army in Krajina on 1 May 1995 on the day Croatia committed aggression against Republika Srpska's Krajina fired five grenades at Zagreb and killed seven civilians. Republika Srpska President Milan Martic was sentenced to 35 years in prison. On the same day, 283 Serbs were killed in western Slavonia, 500 wounded, 20,000 expelled from their homes from western Slavonia. For those crimes, the UN tribunal has not filed any charges. He also refused to judge General Mirko Norac, who, in just one night in August 1991, organised the killing of 150 Serb civilians from Gospić. Serbian General Stanislav Galic was sentenced to three decades in prison because the Republika Srpska Army shelled Sarajevo, a garrison in which there were 40,000 Muslim soldiers who daily conducted offensive facts in the position of the Republika Srpska Army and daily shelled civilian settlements in Serbia's Sarajevo. More than 1,000 Serb civilians died in these shellings. The Hague tribunal has therefore not filed any charges. You all know the case of Naser Oric, commander of Srebrenica, who is responsible for the deaths of over 3,200 people. The UN tribunal ruled that it should not bear any responsibility and gave it a liberating verdict. Republika Srpska Parliament Speaker Momcilo Krajisnik, a man who has not taken a rifle, has not given up any command, the parliament he led has not made any decisions contrary to international law, has been sentenced to 28 years in prison. But that is why the head of the Muslim Army's General Staff, General Sefer Halilovic, was released from any responsibility for the terrible crimes committed by the Muslim army in the territory of all Bosnia and Herzegovina against the Serb people and Croats in central Bosnia. I will remind you, in just one day, several dozen Croatian civilians massacred in the Neretva Valley of the Neretva Force under its control. Muslim investigative authorities have found that, only at the Kazana site in Sarajevo, members of the Tenth Mountain Brigade under the command of Sefer Halilovic have killed about 700 Serb civilians. The Hague tribunal indicted Sefer Halilovic only for crimes against the Croats and eventually handed him an acquittal. Republika Srpska President Biljana Plasic, who also had nothing to do with the war activities of the Republika Srpska Army, regardless of her co-operation with The Hague tribunal and accused some other leaders of the Serb people, was sentenced to 11 years in prison. Recently, The Hague tribunal reached a liberating verdict for Ramush Haradinaj, a proven terrorist whose fighters are responsible for the death of about 400 Serb people, but also members of the Albanian people. There is doubtless evidence, there are living witnesses that his soldiers killed several dozen members of the Albanian people who wanted the state of Yugoslavia preserved. Finally, I ask the question of what else should happen to the ruling majority, DS and Boris Tadic, the state of Serbia, after all we all say: enough is enough, we will no longer co-operate with the criminal institution. Is there also a minimum of defence of Serbian national and state interests in this Hague episode of Satanisation and punishment of the Serb people who are ruling Democratic Party and Boris Tadic are not ready to cross over to court the West for preserving power in Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1858	The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1859	When a man approaches a pay phone, he has to be careful not to step into some of the continuity spread wide across our public scene. Well, here's the discontinuity, and that's why I'm continuing yesterday's discussion. Programmeically, with its political practice and MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Together for Kragujevac supports the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. At the same time, I am sorry that the Deputy Prime Minister Mr Djelic is not present. I would particularly like to commend yesterday the mentioned exposés on this subject, which is not only a rhetorically interesting locksmith, but has succeeded in doing so, and the arguments are also tense, effort and breaking, that one content-based informative exposure to topics that are not very popular and widely available is connected with one anthemic intensification, which should say in terms of what is most important to the public – that the adoption of this agreement is of particular importance to the state and society, that it is an evolutionary leap on the wrong one that should represent our planned development because, in addition to the economic and market content of this contract, it is a condition of the mentioned discontinuity which has both cultural, civility and economic meaning. This topic, outside the market, is what I will probably spend most of my time in this exhibition, which is wanted and done in this society during a long period of time, especially after 2000, when it is most exiled in the myth of October 6th. I say'mitu' because it's never consistently discriminatory, meaningful, open-mindedly critical. The component of the lustration requirement in rough representation, which is only an external, peripheral reflection of the essence that lies in the idea of discontinuity, is overemphasis. This is the Sixth October of our society. By ratifying this contract, the day begins to dawn in Serbia. With exceptional antiques, which cannot exactly be counted as the most productive forces of society, there are no people in Serbia nor born, let alone those who have lived productively in an independent, sovereign Serbian state. Our citizenship is a Yugoslav event and has mostly been brought up and trained during the Broz Yugoslavia era. We do not have an active people with experience of civil, democratic, and that is what European Serbia is about. It is a delusion that the identity of the national and European in our culture was practically based on the Yugoslav aspirations of the Serbian people. He couldn't come out of such aspirations simply because the identity of the national and European in Serbs is older than Yugoslavia and Yugoslav aspirations. It belongs to the national-freedom 19th-century, when with special pride, I stress this, a modern Serbian state created and restored as a local self-government in Kragujevac. At the time, Prince Milos is not making a Turkish bathroom, not a real scribe's-Serbian harem in Kragujevac, and Belgrade's Pasha could not possibly be bothered by this, but rather by the real first Serbian face, the first assembly, the first European constitution of Serbia, the first high school, the Knjaževsko-Serbian theatre, the Knjažev-Serbian gang, as the start of modern music in the Serbs, and lays the foundations of the metal industry in the Balkans. This European identity of Serbia is something with which we, at least culturally (to use today perhaps a more engaged term - at least virtually), are establishing continuity, but the essence is in the discontinuity that we are making with the advent of the rule of law, established by revolutionary violence. Hence, as Mr Ivanji said today, it is a return home. Returning to its own civilization coordinates, to its own historical corridor. Of course, that can also be said at more specific values. The specific values are, in fact, the key words to which the content of this Agreement is interpreted. It's, first of all, liberalisation and harmonisation. When we talk about liberalisation, we mean the liberalisation of the customs-trade regime, when we talk about harmonisation, we talk about harmonising legislative practice with the European Union's legislative practice, which is already popularly called integrating the values of EU standards and norms into our legislation and our social and political practice. But both of these values have, in fact, a common denominator. Although the word Europeanisation is more often used, I will agree that it is ideological and that we do not always have to speak parrotic, the essence of what the word wants to express is the modernisation of Serbia. Our society is archaic, inadmissible archaic, that here at the National Assembly sessions it can regred to the level of the Neolithic Contellation of Constelles, when in practice they were rituals of agrarian magic, curses and similar forms of expression of spirituality. This necessary modernisation of our society is what Together for Kragujevac programmeically supports because it includes, among other things, the decentralisation of state and society and, certainly, economic rebirth as a condition of realisation of these higher values. It is our privilege to develop these values, as co- thinkers, at the G17 Plus Parliament Club and we are pleased to be able to build on these values a strategy not only of our own political development, but also of pave the way for the development of this community, to stop with the mythological coordinates: fire - water - earth - Serbia - heaven - intersections - roads - Europe - Asia, to cut down on such mystifications and to bring the matter down to the real paradoxes to which this society is burdened. How is it that in Serbia, young people go to the Bureau immediately after their studies, then to unemployment, then to extended adolescence, and Serbia lacks highly educated people? How is it that every Serbian company has extra employees and Serbia does not have enough labour to achieve projected national income? The answers are simple. Our economy is stuck. In order to absorb the personnel we have, we have to start companies. And who's going to run them? Well, like other than entrepreneurs. And let's once, before apriori, without any qualifications and arguments, condemn that spirit as a tycoon, let's create a policy and ambience that will be theirs and work for the productive engine of this community, only the ability to increase productivity, employ the population and attract additional labour. As one of the often read thinkers of the European path of his people, Vaclav Klaus, who Mrs Grubjesic says is, in fact, the mental substance of Czech reform, which is true, our goals are high and our tasks are quite ground-based. We have a lot of work to do. It's the discontinuity that enters this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1860	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Natasa Jovanovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1861	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I am very well-willed and I have decided to share another gift (you know, like a quiz or a prize game). Mr. Milenić, or Daniel Schiffer, as you are already popularly called in Kragujevac, I publicly apologize for not giving you the book you asked for on my gift, it seems to me two years ago. It is the book "Ideology of Serbian Nationalism" by Professor Vojislav Seselj. Here, I publicly promise you, as much as tomorrow or Monday, I will give you what you asked me to do. If I'd done it in time (and I'm not, and I'm sorry again), you could have found something in one of the chapters that would further explain this lack of your knowledge when it comes to the discontinuity of one policy, about the nearer or the further past, as it is already taken, which you were talking about. I think my obligation, first of all, is in the absence of professor. I'd like to explain to you how you've mixed up some concepts. You said this was an opportunity for today, on 4 September 2008, to happen on October 6th, which some wanted in another way (we know that a colleague, namely the president of Ms. Jerkov's party, wished to hang himself on the bandits, to shoot minors, to ban political parties, to abolish democracy... ) and since that did not happen, you are now telling us that people who have been brought up and, as you say, most of us, now all depends, perhaps you, perhaps Veroljub Stevanović, am also in Broz's communist time, with respect for those who are in that spirit raised, I was raised in the Serbian national and radical spirit. It's my family, and it's my roots, but there are people who are raised in a different way. But you have to understand that this time in which we live and the values you say are great and that those to whom Serbia should roar with all these young people in the future, are exactly what undermines our national values. Because in its cultural, scientific and any other concept, the EU does not know the national values and identities of one state and society. We want to integrate and certainly we are not against it, but you can see that they want to take our soul by taking it from us, which is already done by 21 EU member states, our national identity. Well, how do we get home, as you invite us, Mr. Ivanji, when Mr. Pelevic can't go to his hometown of Pec? How do we get back when Mrs. Tabakovic can't go to Vuchitrn? How do we get back when Mr. Filip Stojanovic can't get to his Shiloh near Gjilan? These are not values to be advocated by honest and honorable Serbs, which you probably include yourself in (right? ). If one agreement says and explicitly states the parliaments of those countries to take away what our soul is, the cradle of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, then, however small and large enterprises and giants begin to function, all of which are, of course, stories that we have been hearing for eight years from Djelic and Dinkic, who you somehow accidentally inserted into this story about Serbian values, because you and I were born Kragujevci, because he has nothing to do with it, that he can grab and put in his pocket that building of the Book-Serbian Theatre or the old Serb Assembly, be sure to put it in place. Therefore, we still have to focus things in the right direction, say that we want to accept this agreement when the SRS amendment is adopted (if accepted), and only under that condition, which will mean a long and thorny way for something in the haze. Or, as the president of the Russian Federation, Mr. Medvedev said, the EU is now clearly one of the three political structures. Why did he say political? Well, because the representatives of the EU Council of Ministers are stressing that we must achieve this political condition. None of them, and even yesterday in front of Tadic, who is the successor of that totalitarian time that you say is long past, this is now worse, be sure of it, Mr. Meenic, because you and I were then extremely young so that because of our expressed political opinion we could feel it was in Broz's communist time, but this is now much worse because Serbian patriots are killing on the streets because of their express opinion and for the defense of Serbian heroes. If so and if they are already fully under Boris Tadic's regime, the Democratic Party and the G17, the jagged values in our society, then don't be like the man who comes from one environment in which the truth at the time of the communists is presented in a different way, this action, that truly important day in our history, which is the shoulder alongside radicals and socialists, so Pasic's Radicals and Svetozar Markovic, raised a banner of self-government, but don't use it as an opportunity to talk about the values that your coalition partners and people with whom you are on the list are pushing. Look at the schooling. You're a professor of the first Kragujevac high school to bear its famous name. You are now the chairman of the Kragujevac City Assembly, which has the first Serbian assembly and where the first Serbian constitution was adopted. Look at the company around you. Do these people, sitting around you in benches, from your MP group, even mean our national values? They don't mean anything. But they mean this Serbian youth who will return to the arrival of truly true and sincere patriotism and patriots from the countries they went to during DOS rule. Statistics are inexorable and she says that many more young and smart people have gone out of the country from October 5th to today, no matter how much you want to present it in another way. In the manner of good Kragujecans and neighbours, or already acquaintances, since you and I are even the same generation, we've known each other for many years, I want to end this as an exhibition and as an invitation to all people who truly have Serbia at heart, and are not with us Serbian radicals and people who are our opposition, people's representatives, to make an additional effort, to do everything they can in their jobs, where they study, where they work hard, to have a little more patience, to endure a little more. Unfortunately, in the 21st century in Europe, we have a totalitarian regime headed by Boris Broz, Boris Tadic, and we will do everything on our part, the majority of MPs who are not only from the SRS, that such a regime will soon come to an end and that not only those values that have been denied by Kragujevac are truly respected, but above all those who have denied and who warn us, as our Gracanica, Kosovo and Metohija are constantly warning us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1862	The word is Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1863	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 226, but I'd like to rephrase my colleague to the vice president of the Assembly first. I don't think it's nice to discuss previous speakers because there are people whose ambitions are beyond capacity and it's quite evident that not every philosopher can be a prime minister. As far as young Miss Alexander Jerkov is concerned, it is perfectly understandable that she points out pro-European values because, for information to Serbian citizens, she is a master of European science, whatever that actually means. I'm gonna watch me doctorate, say, Asian sciences. Rules of Procedure, Article 226. I request information from you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, information that is important to all citizens of Serbia given the Constitution's guaranteed rights. I am almost convinced that you, and a number of these "Semafor Coalition" MPs who are not programmed by a U.S. chip, have no information that we are missing, and you are in a position to obtain it. What's this about? If you look at the official British Embassy site in Belgrade and click on "Serbia", a map will appear to the naive entity at first sight as a map of Serbia. But when you look at this map a little bit better and eventually increase and compare it with the official map of Serbia, miracles will appear to be the non-existent Kosovo, or the English, of Serbia on their official website in Belgrade, showing no Kosovo and Metohija. It means that not only did they admit so-called. Kosovo, rather than us, is further demonstrating power with the absence of diplomatic tactics. He said "professor" well yesterday. Samardzic, it is obvious that Serbia and the European Union have deeply disturbed relations, and even if this SAA is ratified, the disturbed relations between Serbia and the European Union will continue. What kind of Stabilisation and Association Agreement is this about when they treat Serbia as a third-rate country, which not only is not a partner, but is it possible to constantly train it to be strict in matters of state borders, arrangements, identities? What kind of SAA are we talking about with the British when they actually started the process of stabilising and joining Kosovo? Since this government has rushed to return our ambassadors to the European Union countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence, how about, say, a map of the UK without Scotland appears on the Serbian Embassy site in London? Did our ambassadors put up a protest and what did the foreign minister and the competent state authorities do on this matter? It is insufficient to lift up as three fingers in the Olympics, it is insufficient to give the honorable word of Tito's pioneering, done by Mr Boza (as they call him from a mile "cannabis") to keep Kosovo in Serbia. The Gospel says: Blessed are you not, if you know, blessed if you know and do. And as Velimir Ilic said yesterday, there was a lot of double accounting at the international meetings of the current foreign minister and his dear professor and idolatry, whose cabinet even served a civilian military deadline. For external use - green light, for internal, allegedly, red, and actually - winking yellow. It is no wonder that among the kids, who comment on everything funny, there has already been a joking curse -- and may well have kept you as Tadic Kosovo. How can a person in the role of president young people believe when he treats them like rabbits who, led by the example of a fast-signed minister like an electric rabbit, have to accept the slogan - the life of the SAA cannot wait? Let us create discontinuity and put the past aside -- those who, of course, with a little help from friends, spent in a pre-election campaign, and then tried to violently ratify it, which is why Prime Minister Kostunica returned the mandate to the people, publicly denying the support of "the free builders of the totalitarian United States". Leaving the past aside for 'European traffic lights' means actually leaving people, property, cultural goods, territorial integrity and sovereignty. Serbian citizens are becoming forgotten in the scenario. It is, in fact, a series made in co-production of Washington, Brussels and that part of Belgrade that believes Serbia is sufficient within the framework of a phone booth. But that's not enough for European friends either. Various ministers, who may not have been born under the Eiffel Tower, have simply fallen from above as carriers of various foreign diplomas, coursers of Cia's programs in Garmispartenkirhen and whom, with the help of these'supervised figures', who take over boards and advice and want to amnesty those who destroyed and bombed us as soon as possible. Who cares about women in foster homes, old, powerless, children who are treated by the current government as collateral damage, when good trade can be done? The day after tomorrow is the "Partibreakers" concert. I believe you've ever heard of Canet, so it wouldn't be a bad idea to listen to "Grumbling and Greed" and "We'd sell Dad and Mom for a left shoe." You amnesty aggressors, ask them for their opinion, instead of pressing charges against those countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence. And for your information, dear gentlemen, Berlusconi made an agreement on August 30th of this year that will pay Italy to Libya $5 billion in the next 25 years for damage caused during the colonization of Libya from 1912 to 1943. Two hundred million dollars a year in the next 25 years in terms of investments in infrastructure facilities in Libya – e, that is, a real relationship. So, Madam President of the Assembly, please find out what this case of a map of Serbia without Kosovo was done at the British Embassy site in Belgrade by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the competent state authorities. To inform the MPs: today at 17.00 is the day of the protest of Serbian NGOs and, later, a walk to the Ministry of Culture. The name of the action is 'Protect Cyrillic'. Since Mr. Milivojevic expressed his desire to see what this Cyrillic sticker looks like, I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1864	Thank you. The full stenographic notes of your statement will be forwarded to the government and the resolution ministries will give you an answer. The word is Pai Boys, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1865	I tried to pick up the replica. If that's possible, I'd like it to be a replica after all. We heard Mr. Sasa Milenić, a philosopher in education. It's not the first time we've listened to him here, and I'm free to say that my predecessor said we shouldn't be dealing with those people who come out here for a pay phone and talk. I'm not gonna deal with him, I'm gonna deal with what he said, and what's a little bit of a fire in my ears, as an MP for the opposition SRS. However, all of Mr. Milenić's statements remind me of Mr. Ruzic's presentations, you have him at Steria's – these are high-priced exhibitions that the ordinary world cannot understand. I count myself as the average intelligent man, and I really couldn't figure out everything the dear fellow wanted to say, but I realized there was a parrot's speech. Probably that parrot talk, that parroting about some fancy stuff belongs to us opposition people, and I don't believe it applies to the left side of this room. I was very careful, and I wrote down that according to some of the relationships we are in the neolithic, and I understood well that the distinguished gentleman spoke, three times repeated: discontinuity, discontinuity, discontinuity, again calling on Milosh who loved the Skutte sultan when he went to Stambo and who carried the fess on his head for the rest of his life. Sir, if you're into discontinuity, that means you're a revolutionary. I respect that commitment, too. The revolution is the most connected to the red part, and it's where it's given the biggest products. I don't mind, but say you're a revolutionary. You know what continuous development is, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, You know that. But, let me not pollute with you, let me give you two quotes. There's one piece of Thomas Elliot's Nobel Prize, it's called Four Quarters, and it starts about like this: the time of the present is contained in the time of the past, and the time has passed in the future. Where's your discontinuity? You're a philosopher and you're supposed to be thinking about general categories, not like this. There's one other thing, Winston Churchill said nicely: If you turn back, you'll be able to look far more into the future. It means the same thing to someone who's gonna think about it and who doesn't have a little brain, like you said, and I don't know who you're meant for. But the worst dissatisfaction with me has caused you to admire Mr. Secretary's exposure. Mr. Minister is a servant of neoliberalist, multinational companies, I won't tell you who they are. Read Noom Chomsky, read other Nobels, say Squishy, so I don't list anyone you can read. If you are in the mood, read the feminists too, and you will see what they say about this globalisation whose servant is Lakaja, Mr Djelic. But if he's light, then he's not responsible for using fairy methods-- screams, bangs, shit. There was only more fireworks, confetti, to jump, to kiss, to hug, and to Europe. And what did we expect from Mr. Djelic? We already know about the stories about the aunt's couch, about the yellow convertible from the flag (we don't see him driving it), we know about those marifetteluke. This is the highlight of the marriquettelu, it's the gartering, the twirling, the mixing. It's not the exposé of a Serbian minister. To be free to finish. What did we expect from you? Economic analysis, to make it clear what awaits us, which denials. You've been given, you say in your fake polls, 60% of the people's trust to join the EU. But did you ask the people to endure what awaits us, and it will not be easy that way. We expected you to tell us the projections, how the economic situation now stands. You were at the economic forum in Petersburg. Is there 16.4 billion dollars in business and business, did you ask for special terms from the Russians and loans, did a minister tell you there...? (President: Time. If I were asked by an entrepreneur and a wise man what to do in the future, I would say to him: work with the Russians. That's what you're supposed to tell us here, give us the analysis, what it's gonna cost. Why did Switzerland refuse to join the EU, and why does one rich country say: it is not worth Switzerland's citizens to join the EU? Because she's rich. Why are you forcing us into this association where citizens won't vote for the constitution of that association when it's so good? Let's not go into further controversy, what was the exposé, which you're too pleased with, it's sadder, and even sadder that such ministers are holding us such an exposé. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1866	Mr. Milenic. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1867	It's not going to be anything particularly attractive because I've taken the mentions as well-intentioned and thus contributed to this discussion, so I'm just going to give some information. Mr. Momchilov mentioned what I said when I commended the Minister's discussion. You said that the discussion only lacks fireworks and violins, so you felt the need for it by listening to that discussion. That's exactly what I commended, if you look at what I said. About T.S. Elliot - time passed, time to come or even more long ago, if we are going to the Book of Preachers - what was it, it would be, what seemed... These are thoughts that have just been the subject of what I have criticised as outdated political coordinates. In those thoughts, you can be wise, you can be alone in a cell, but you can't take responsibility from those mental positions for the management of the state and the fate of the citizens. A thought that wants to engage politically with this kind of responsibility must be much more modern. With all due respect, much has been happening in the last decades of the 20th and the first decade of the 21st centuries in the field of opinion. The thought of revolution is a conservative thought. Today I am not talking about the revolutionary thought, but about the opinion of the difference, which is a completely different cultural mile and, Miss Jovanovic, a completely different picture of Europe. Not as hegemon, not as states in imperial Roman terms, in some formerly valuable and conceptual coordinates, but as a country that is, among other things, open to a civilizational and cultural project, which does not even have to be watched in the coordinates of that target, logic that some much more subtle structure of opening for different interests and angles of observation can open, if we delete our own perception of that kind of communication. In order to be more understandable and simple, I will give you a message from one of my friends, to praise myself, otherwise the living classic of Serbian literature Vidosav Stevanović, who, upon coming from Paris, is in controversy about the identity of the European Union and about it: Europe - yes or no, repeated this way in Kragujevac: Don't tell me what all the shortcomings of the EU are. I can tell you about it for days, but there is one advantage that must never be ignored, that nowhere in the history of humanity could man live more dignity than citizens in the EU do today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1868	Before the others, Miss Natasa Jovanovic reported, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1869	I was almost ready, fellow Milenić, to accept one piece of your replica and to realize that we had some kind of misunderstanding but that basically we agree and look at each other in a different way, you with confused terms (what I was talking about earlier), and I with proper thinking and with a clearly founded ideology of the SRS to which I belong, but in the end, and that's the only reason I'm going to report back, and that's what I'm going to finish this dialogue with you, is your mentioning someone who, in the right sense of the word, is a disgrace for Serbian "quasi-literity" (I'm calling it) and for the town of Kragujevac. You said that this said Serbian, a certain Vidosav Stevanović, who returned from Paris, spoke to you about the values and shortcomings of the EU and will now be done to one of our citizens who lives in Piroth, Vranja, Subotica, Novi Sad or anywhere, and knows nothing (for he has never written or published anything) about the person you mention, who is your dear friend. I would be really impressed if you said that your friend Peter Handke, who also lives in Paris, but who is not, unlike that Stevanovic (Vidosava, not to be that Veroljub) is a sicko and express anti-Serb. Mr. Peter Handke is unfortunately not your friend, but he is a friend of us Serbian radicals. He supported Professor Seselj's struggle to endure in his intention to fight for his rights, a friend of Emir Kusturica and other Serbian patriots and patriots, unlike that of Stevanovic, who fled Serbia and left because, at the very least, he was not only anti-Serbian, I can call it desertion in any sense, because he did not put himself as an intellectual, because he was not, because he was a quasi-intellectual, in Serbia's defence at the time we were bombed, when we were brought into sanctions. The worst possible things, everywhere and in every place, and especially where he temporarily escaped, he talked about Serbia and the Serb people when we were killed and when every Serb lost his head west of Drina and Danube. So it's obvious it wasn't a misunderstanding after all. Yet you and I are quite different and ideologically founded and raised. What can I tell you? To regret that you have succumbed to such an influence that is truly wrong. And as for the lives of people living in countries that have reached that so-called. European standards, unlike that of Stevanovic and other Serbian traitors, who are always on the budget of some Soros or someone who pays them and their projects, honest people, honest French, the average man in Paris, in any city in Germany, in Austria, in Italy, suffers from their fate for the next year, two or three, because there is a major recession, people lose their jobs, both our pirates and those born there, their industry, their production is in crisis. And we certainly need to fight not to kidnap us, as they have done for eight years under Dossian authority, for two or three euros from our factories, to continue to fire our workers, but to accept, as an open country, ready to cooperate with everyone, because you see what they say here - recommending that, by accepting this agreement, we have the opportunity to co-operate with the countries so-called. Third world. None of you mentioned it today in the discussion. Tomislav Nikolic, president of our parliamentary group, spoke two years ago with all accredited ambassadors, so-called. The third world in the former Federal Assembly building for days and days on our integrations, on cultural, economic, any other co-operation with them when none of the official state bodies did. You've seen it only now comes to mind that Condoleezza Rice travels to one of those third world countries. We should turn to such a future, integrate ourselves with all those who are our friends and have an open heart only for those countries and peoples who are peaceful, who do not threaten us (as America does through its NATO allies) and do not clink with weapons, because we can no longer and should not lose our heads or war. We are a country that wants to preserve its territorial integrity, but make sure that with such quasi-friends and fighters for your rights such as anti-Serb Vidosav Stevanović we can't get anywhere, but with real friends in the world and with those who are ready everywhere and in every place, such as really big countries and countries, such as China, India, Indonesia and others, to defend Serbia's rights to preserve KIM in its composition.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1870	Since the heads of Parliament and I had consultations until after 4:00, we agreed to work until the end of this agenda. I would also like to inform the members of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on European Integration that the session of the Legislative Committee will be held at 17.00 a.m. in the Blue Salon, and the Committee on European Integration at 17.10 p.m. in the press room. I ask the members of these committees to attend the sessions. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Martinović first appeared, and Mr Paja Momchilov answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1871	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my humble mind cannot rise to those philosophical heights that, apparently, can raise Mr. Milenic's mind from G17 plus, but I have been listening all day to lectures that keep the gentlemen from us from the ruling coalition on Europe and Europeanism, so I am also invited to say something on the subject. National Radical Party founder Nikola Pasic studied in Switzerland and transferred the idea of political radicalism to Serbia from French and Swiss political heritage. The leader of Serbian radicals in Vojvodina, Jasa Tomic, was one of the most brilliant intellectuals of the age. Finance Minister Lazar Pachu spoke several world languages. Even during World War I, he was able to maintain political communication with, say, the finance minister of the German Empire. Yugoslav Prime Minister between the two world wars Dr Milan Stojadinovic doctored at the Faculty of Law in Munich. Let me remind you, in the 1980s, one of the few intellectuals in the then-Yugoslavia who had the courage to talk about these authentic political values such as democracy and parliamentaryism was just the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj. I strongly recommend, Mr Milenic, that you read open letters to Hamdi Pozderac and Branko Mikulic when half of your political leaders sat in the ranks of the then Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia about the fact that Vojislav Seselj was still 80 years old as an open political opposition to the political values of Great Britain, France, the United States and so on. This isn't about the SRS being against the political values of the West. This isn't about us denying a rich European culture. We're their component. We here point to one fact, which has been pointed out by leading politicians of the very liberal West, that democratic states, unfortunately, behave in one way at home, and in relation to small nations and small states in another way. It is not the SRS against co-operation policy with any state and any international organisation. We are only against entering the EU under other conditions than other European peoples and states. As no one has conditioned Slovakia, Slovenia, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, etc. To give up one piece of their state territory, such a condition should not be set for Serbia either. Behind the whole story of Europe and Europe, there are, in fact, Eurofolators, and the only European value they truly recognise is the euro. Since you mentioned Karadjordje, one of Karadjordje's biographers wrote – when he was brought by several Serbs who fled to the Turkish side and fought against Serb rebels, Karadjordje said: cut them because they prefer Turks rather than their Serbian brothers. If Karajordje were alive today, I think he'd tell you the same thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1872	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1873	I'm advertising Article 101. The Rules of Procedure say that if someone is not well understood, they may also be called to the line. Mr Milenić may have characterized what I believe is conservative and not advanced, modern – that the challenges of this new time require a different maximum of what we should stick to. I don't mind. Here, I risk perhaps now being a political nihilist, being a Eurosceptic, being a god-awful what, but not being conservative, I accept immediately on my shoulders the two characteristics behind which I stand. First, I'm a rusophile, to be understood immediately. Two, since there were stories of those concubines that there were currents in the SRS, I'm also a'silent'. So that's not what we're after. I don't know if there's Mr. Milenić. Watch this: discontinuity. The common European market is something that came from Hitler's ideology. Hitler advocated a common market and a supranational government. However, Napoleon was before him advocating a supranational government. It needs to be clear and it's not something new fictional, it's continuity. The Bilderberg family was in 1954 (I do not know if Mr. Minister has any contact with this family, perhaps there is, perhaps no) founded by Prince Bernard, a member of the SS troops, who has also made a major contribution to the establishment of the common European market. If Mr. Bush has declared a new world order and globalisation, it is based on what ordinary people tell us: freedom of flow of goods, capital, ideas of people, and many supranational organisations are in service of these ideas, of course and the European Union, there is no dispute, it would be interesting to see some of the essential features of neoliberalism – we worked for a liberal economy, but, to understand, we did not neoliberate and we are not globalists – the rule of the market, that the state should be destroyed. That's why we have a country where four of my fellow ministers are in the government today, one of whom deals with health, not to talk about the qualifications of others, I don't want to talk offensively about people, where the foreign minister is a young man, full of experience, who finished physics and who's trained, educated in a one-year course in America, to be a minister in a banana state, not to speak any further. The reduction of public expenditure, deregulation, should not endanger profits, privatisation. Look what's going on in the privatization. There, a small number of people concentrate their wealth. You have in Serbia some gentlemen who are masters of many things already. You from the so-called opposition, and then the positions, G17 plus, you attacked one of the superiors who seemed to manage to accumulate all those good ones. That's what neoliberalism gave you. Multinational companies, supranational companies, 500 of them in the world today own 42% of the world's wealth. Except for nine of the most developed countries in the world, then 200 of the largest corporations have more wealth than any other country in the world. "Shell", which also flies here (to squeeze out Russians), has 40% of the territory owned, the most important branches of industry, if you watch television, the airline industry, five companies in each branch own over 40% of the wealth in that area. Now, that's what the European Union is for, that's what servants and easier globalism are for -- to bring us into this kind of integration. Serbian radicals are absolutely not for that. Why is there a conflict in the North-South? Why in the great demonstrations, in all the assemblies of the richest countries and exploiters, depicted in neoliberalists and globalists, are mass demonstrations taking place, where they are shot? I'm sure they're not free. That's what we need to talk about. There's no Mr. Philosopher. That's what we're different about. Don't tell Mr. Truth. The continuity of what the European Union is doing, the non-democratic European Union, it no longer respects the decisions made in the referendum, it listens to parliaments, and parliaments should be the extended government's hand and servant, that is what this parliament wants. It's not Serbian radicals. And we're not doing obstructions, we're fighting for true freedom, we're fighting for the wealth of most people, not a small number. Of course, by all means. There is a difference between the Kragujevac philosopher of local importance for us, the Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1874	Mr. Ostojić has his word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1875	I object to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 103 and 104, because MPs are obliged to discuss issues on the agenda, not to listen to historical reminiscations and ideological qualifications for half an hour. In any case, I will repeat one great satisfaction that the proposal by the head of my parliamentary group to reach an agreement between the ruling majority and the SRS, which has conditionally agreed to vote for the Agreement if an agreement on their amendment is reached, may have the chance to succeed and win over 200 votes, which is extremely important. No country, which passed through the transition from totalitarianism into a society of freedom, democracy and human rights, had as divided society as Serbia. There is a consensus in all countries on this issue. There will be time, gentlemen, to share. There will be time for the left to chase voters with left-wing demagogy. There will be time, too, for the right to pursue voters with its right-wing demagogy, collectiveism. There will also be room for communists, and for the Ljotics, there will be places for liberals to advocate individual rights and human freedoms, but this is not a party issue. Therefore, if the LDP does not see the problem in the document proposed by the SRS, I do not see how a compromise could be left to win over 200 votes in this agreement. You are required to achieve, Mr. Djelic, that agreement. I hope you achieve it. For LDP voters, it is not a problem for the agreement to receive such a majority. The agreement and what follows will allow normal political action in this country. This normal political action and these European values mean that it will be much less or there will be no discussion of what we have heard over the past two or three days. So, once again, it's a pleasure to negotiate this, to finish this job and keep doing it. After all, I guess we're all about leaving the totalitarian past behind, I guess we're all for privatisation and denationalization, I guess we're all for lustration and rehabilitation. We'll be able to do that when we finish this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1876	According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Rule 104. I don't think we should talk about the previous speaker, Mr. Philosopher, anymore because the theme of his speech was, in fact, not the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but his personal promotion. That's why I don't think we should make any more statements about him, about his speech that's completely disproved. We're not going to point out who's a philosopher, who's a psychiatrist, who's a lawyer, who's an economist. Here you should be saying what is the point of the agenda. During his speech, the assembly's dignity was injured because it only mentioned the Stabilisation and Association Agreement three times, and the remaining was an insult and humiliation not only of the MPs but also of the citizens of Serbia. It is clear to all of us that we are neither stupid nor uneducated (I don't know what other word to use), we understand perfectly well that what he was about to say was humiliation because he once said that Serbian society is archaic. Serbian society is not archaic at all. We all strive here, not just MPs sitting on my left, to go to the European Union. The opposition is not archaic, it is only seeking to go to the European Union Serbia with Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. to accept the amendment of the deputy president of the SRS where it is clearly said which way we want to join the European Union. So this would be my address as a psychiatrist, and I wouldn't want us all to declare ourselves a psychologist, a psychiatrist, and have our own personal promotion. I'd tend to talk here on the agenda points and end it one quick way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1878	Mr. Samardzic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1879	Dear People's MPs, I have the impression that this situation is slowly being cleared in our Parliament regarding certain matters. Yesterday, MP Petronijevic made a proposal on the so-called an interpretative declaration or an interpretative statement. He advocated that certain terms and sentences are further guaranteed within this state and these state bodies that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, so that there are guarantees that state authorities will not come out of that interpretation when applying the Agreement. Also, we have the first version of the SRS amendment and now the second version. I would like to present the position of the DSS parliamentary group, because it seems to me that it is high time to do so. In fact, the whole problem is that, in our firm belief, there are no declarations or parts of the law confirming the Agreement to provide sufficient, even if the minimum guarantees for what this country needs in a specific situation. The only one who can guarantee in our contractual relationship with the EU at this time that KIM is an integral part of Serbia is, in fact, the EU itself. That is why it was necessary, and we have repeatedly stressed that, in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the EU's commitment to KIM status within Serbia. It is that supplement that we have sought several times publicly, in communication with the EU, etc. This type of guarantee is already in the Serbian Constitution. The preamble to the Constitution clearly states that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia. The declarations and resolutions adopted by the Assembly on several occasions make it quite clear and result in internal guarantees for state authorities to behave in this regard. The problem, then, is not in it. The problem is that it does not endanger the agreement itself of territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia, it is threatened by those who sign it as another contracting party. The territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia at the moment is jeopardising the EU, with its Eulex policy, so by establishing Kosovo's independence, and 21 member states that have already recognised KIM's independence. Therefore, we must discuss this matter with them and put in the necessary guarantees, together, in order to have the necessary agreement of the will of the Vienna Convention. That's what we were talking about here, too. So there are no minimum for us, let alone the necessary guarantees that our contractual partner will respect what we care about most, which is the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Serbia. In addition, if such an interpretative declaration were adopted, whether as a special text, either as part of the certification law, which I am not now entering because it is the technique itself, the question is whether it would be sufficient guarantee or enough obligation for this government to act accordingly. That would, of course, make a commitment to the government, but the government has already, if you want, in advance, been adept at breaking a proposal like this. In a few examples, I can easily show it. The government has accepted Eulex more or less, as the way the EU will be installed in Kosovo, the Government and the President of the Republic, of course, discuss how Eulex should be accepted and, finally, you have the interview with the Prime Minister of Mr Cvetkovic since 28 August in "Politica", where you have literally said (for this need I have done) that, although he is not in agreement with the reconfiguration of UNMIK, he wants to participate in it so that he can protect our people who live in Kosovo. "That's why we have to," I quote, "to participate in the reconfiguration of UNMIK, that is, the deployment of Eulex", that we participate, Serbia, 'because we want to be part of a common story'. You see, if the government had already done that, if he said it, and he said it competently, as Prime Minister, and if negotiations are being held today, as we all know, it's quite clear that a declaration like this, a statement or anything else would not be binding on this government. She's already entered the process and I'm really surprised that someone now has confidence that the government's policy would magically change because of a text like this. The main reason is the first one I said that guarantees are not enough because only the partner, the EU and the Member States with which it is signed can guarantee it in an additional sentence of the agreement itself. Such a guarantee must contain the Agreement itself, not our internal text, which is not binding at all on the EU or any of the 21 that have recognised Kosovo's independence. At the end of the line, many of these countries, when they ratify the agreement, can bring in the same such declarations that will confirm their stance towards Kosovo. So, they will confirm the act on recognising Kosovo's independence, and we will remain short sleeves. These are the reasons, I think, clearly enough, why the DSS cannot accept such a proposal, which, on several occasions, in any way, was given to this assembly by Mr Petronijevic, the SPS and by this amendment to the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1880	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1881	As an amendment promoter, I have to respond to a expressed infidelity. I didn't write the amendment convinced that the government would behave properly. I don't trust the government, I don't believe they'll respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I don't believe they'll respect any law, but that means we're not getting out of bed at all in the morning. So what do we do here in the congregation if we don't adopt even what's good because we don't believe the government is going to do it? The amendment tried to correct the behaviour of the agreement introduced by the DSS and DS. So this agreement is your work, initialled several months ago, when it was known that EU member states recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. They hadn't declared independence yet, but you all knew that for Germany, France, England KiM would be independent. You acted like it would never happen, and here's a good deal that we now have to correct by our interpretation that binds our government. We can't change the agreement that you initialled, but we can pass a law that obliges the government, so let's see if this is a state where the law is not respected, or if this is a country where the law is respected. So think about it. There's time. I've been trying for two months to convince you that you should have accepted this. You still have a little time. These would have adopted this agreement without us, but it wouldn't have been worth anything to us without this interpretative declaration. Indeed, I couldn't bear to bring this agreement with 70 votes, nor would it mean anything to the government of Serbia, to the European Union, or to us radicals who, as an opposition, have to observe what you are doing. This is an opportunity for the whole of Serbia to say yes, we want to go to Europe and here are the conditions under which we oblige all governments that are ever formed in Serbia to represent us in that EU. This agreement is neither war nor pact, this agreement is our pride, our dignity. So you impose agreements on us, it seems we must accept them, but when you tell us "Serbia", we treat Serbia within the limits of which it is a member of the UN. So please, if you have objections to the Agreement, you are using yourself a little bit, but don't make any remarks on the amendment which, in fact, brings all of this into harmony, solves, improves and seems acceptable to me for all the MPs in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1882	The word is Mr. Dusan Bajatovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1883	Dear fellow Members, I must say that I am very pleased with the afternoon part of the session, for the simple reason that, with certain political compromises, let them understand who they will, we are re-establishing one power of the Serbian Parliament. About one part of this force was said by counterpart Tomislav Nikolic, who, perhaps from another angle, but quite rightly, concluded that this interpretative statement, which was advocated by SPS MPs, but also by other parliamentary groups, was simply returned to the radical dictionary – that no hand should be found to sign it. And thank you, gentlemen of the radicals... (Well, Mr. Todorovic, if I were to give some reform to it, I would advocate the introduction of the Ministry of Magic, but the government has already been elected. Nothing ugly. Of course, you have the right to all of that. ) I mean, one of the basic remarks I had as a public stage participant and what a bad message to the world is that the Serbian Parliament is ununited. If we really vote this out, we will also help the government (if it is well-intentioned, and I sincerely hope that it is and believe it personally) to defend this position that KIM is part of the Republic of Serbia and that it will remain that way. By doing so, of course, we are bound by this government, not only by the Constitution, although in my opinion, the Constitution is always sufficient guarantee. On the other hand, I can't understand my friends from the DSS. Should you have stayed on the political ice and come out and explained your views to us? I'm talking about Mr. Samardzic. You've worked this deal, you've negotiated, and don't be mad at your fellow SPS or your SRS colleagues for respecting it now. A co-workers from the DS participated. What's interesting to me as a participant in this debate is that we had two approaches. One says: "No" co-operation with the EU if they take away KIM, and on the other hand, "yes" co-operation, because we will defend it better. I'm a supporter of the other one. You know why? Because what 'no' doesn't offer an alternative in any way, in either national or national or political, and especially not in economic, or at least I haven't heard from you. It would be nice for this oil and gas arrangement to bring about a better Serbia. And he'll bring it. The Russian bank will bring competition to the Austrian capital that some here represent. But that's not enough. Serbia must have a non-selective investment inflow because, apparently, patriotism is no longer possible on the rifle, must be aware of the quality of life, and of Cyrillic, both on the computer and on the job. That's how I look at these problems. Besides, when someone wants to attack your identity, it'll be the easiest thing to do if you agree to it. And Kosovo will kidnap us if we agree to it. The only option at this point in time to defend KIM is that this process of kidnapping KIM -- for us it's not a closed question and that's why I call it a process -- we really turn it into a process with that power, those allies and those possibilities that we have. I will attack every government of the Republic of Serbia that doesn't make maximum use of the possibilities to defend KIM, but it would also be unserious not to realize that the crisis in our society is taking a long time, so that because of one such 'no', not only would the European door be closed, but other political processes would be opened -- in Vojvodina, some here like to mention the rural area and things like that. As a responsible political elite, we need to understand that the EU accession process has its challenges, that we already have enemies within the international community, so we are still telling the same story, but that the way we are going to defend KIM is no longer possible on the rifle. It must focus on political unity in Serbia, on well-developed opportunities, on the good insight of allies, and on the whole story, as far as possible, being held in the Security Council, to try to (really believe it) join the EU not only solve these economic and social problems that we have, of course, together with Russia, which I still think will help us, or perhaps with the countries of the Shanghai initiative, I hope that no one is disputed. In a political sense, to join the EU as soon as possible, without KIM entering, perhaps even BiH, the question is what suits us and what will be our state strategy when it comes to Republika Srpska, which we should also defend, to try to protect our interests from that position. In part, I spoke on my own behalf, and I know part of it that I represent SPS attitudes. Therefore, I will be very pleased if both our colleagues and our radical friends and all other parliamentary groups - DS, G17, members of minorities, PUPS and all others, I apologize if I skipped someone, vote for this agreement because they will show the strength and responsibility of the Serbian political elite.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1884	The word is Mr. Jojic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1885	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm using the provisions of the article. 225th and 226th, and I want to ask Deputy Prime Minister Djelic a few questions. Have you heard, Mr. Djelic, and do you know that during the trial, Vojislav Seselj is in front of a court in The Hague and that he has been in custody for nearly six years, which violates the provisions of the European Convention on the right to a quick trial? The court apparently violates not only its statutes and rules, but also all international conventions and again seeks to impose on Dr Vojislav Seselj, which he does not need. Respecting the principle of presummation of innocence, the government of the Republic of Serbia must raise its voice in protecting the rights of all its citizens in The Hague tribunal and even in front of such a court as the UN tribunal. Many international documents have prescribed the right for the defendant to defend himself and this right must be respected in all cases, including in the case of Dr Vojislav Seselj. The imposition of defenders by Prof. Vojislav Seselj is obviously a flagrant violation of the right to defend the suspect, i.e. the accused. Mr. Djelic, do you know the difference between The Hague and Nuremberg? The difference is that in The Hague there is a prisoner of Professor Vojislav Seselj, the largest Serbian patriot, patriot, hero, intellectual, the greatest fighter for the Serb people and the Serbian state, as well as the greatest Serb victim, and in Nuremberg was tried by the greatest war criminals of World War II. Do you know whether or not an indictment has been brought against Dr Vojislav Seselj, whether one or three or four have been filed and whether they have been changed or not? It is concluded by conjecture and fiction, without a single word about the elements of the substance of the crime. Any criminal offence to be imposed on the accused must be subject to the indictment of criminal offences and to the fact that the evidence exists and that burdens the accused. That has to be respected. The indictment against Dr Vojislav Seselj does not have a single exact date and no element of the crime, and there is also no evidence. This indictment looks like it was written by Ali Izetbegovic or Franjo Tudjman. The indictment against Professor Vojislav Seselj is a pamphlet from which hatred for Serbs and Serbia is lit. That indictment is just paraphrasing false allegations by a so-called so-called so-called. The criminal UN tribunal and its false witnesses. Since the beginning of the UN tribunal's work, the most charges have been brought against members of Serbian nationality. The prosecution sided with Muslims, Croats and Shipatarian terrorists, who do not burden, but even releases the greatest war crimes - Hashim Thaci, Agim Ceku, Haradinaj, Naser Oric, etc. In addition to that, the following facts go hand in hand, Mr. Djelic. There is a marked discrimination in the prosecution, both by number and by the functions of the accused. The Hague tribunal does not have that attitude and attitude towards Muslims and Croats. No one from the highest leadership of the Croatian-Muslim Federation has been charged with war crimes. When on exceptional occasions and cases raise some charges against non-Serbs, the legal qualification is not the same as for Serbs, it is very mild and serves only to deceive the public. I'll give you one example. The Serb rape at the camp of Celebic by Muslims has qualified the prosecutor as a violation of the customs of war, not as rape, which is usually the case when it comes to one of the alleged Serb perpetrators. The prosecutor's behaviour has been present since the very beginning of the tribunal's work. Thus, out of the first 18 indictments against suspects of the alleged war crimes in the former SFRY 17 area, the indictments were against Serbs and only one against Muslims. Is that selective application of justice? Yes, it is. This is the only case and he should have created the impression that the tribunal would have the same criteria for all suspects, which was only a public deception. I ask the government a question – will the Hague prosecutor Serge Brammertz, who is soon reportedly coming to Belgrade, present these facts and ask the UN tribunal to suspend discrimination against Serbs who are unfounded for alleged war crimes? A second question for the Serbian government – will it strongly condemn the attempt to impose defenders... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Professor Vojislav Seselj's lawyer, who, as a law professor and a doctor of law, with high expertise and legal knowledge, can defend himself and does not need a defender? Dr Vojislav Seselj can only be disturbed, he can interfere with his successful defence, as Dr Vojislav Seselj has proved to the expert domestic and foreign public during this process that he can successfully defend himself against false and constructive charges. The provisions of Article 14 shall apply. The international pact on civil and political rights is normised that the defendant can defend himself or with the help of the defenders he chooses. When it comes to KIM, and as a strategic, state and national issue, Democrats and your coalition, you must not flirt with the Kosmeta kidnappers and give it up - you have no right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1886	Mr. Samardzic, you have the word, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1887	A replica and clarification is needed, given what Mr Nikolic was saying and given what Mr Bajatovic was saying. I'll start with this other one. He said the DSS was suddenly on the ice. This cannot be true because it is generally known that the DSS came out of the past government precisely because of disputes, strategic and political, with a coalition partner about these things that we are talking about today in the Assembly. That attitude has been known for months. Since the EU has recognised KIM, since the EU's recognition of KIM, there has been a dissension in the government over the government's relationship or parts of the government to the matter. So we didn't suddenly find ourselves on any ice. We may have met on the ice, but not all of a sudden. The public is very well aware of the DSS policy on national and state issues and there is no difference. It takes a little clarification on the agreement itself and on the guarantees we're looking for. So, as far as the DSS is concerned, the problem is not in the content of the text of the Agreement. If you noticed in these discussions we've had for two days, we haven't criticised the Agreement, we haven't questioned it, we haven't questioned its positive provisions. Of course, we participated in the negotiations and it would be contradictory if we had done so. Therefore, the problem is not in the text of the Agreement, but in the new situation. The one with which we sign it, or today we ratify it, he broke it, he violated all those provisions that are otherwise mentioned in this amendment to the SRS. Therefore, both paragraph 7 of the preamble and Article 2 and Article 4 and Article 135 violated international law. That's the problem. And we have no guarantee with our partners that he will implement it the way we negotiated him, how we ended it, because while we were negotiating, there were international guarantees based on Resolution 1244 that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia. Resolution 1244 was in full effect. It has been violated by the EU and by Member States. So the exact opposite of what the radicals are doing right now. So we have not criticised the provisions of the Agreement, but we have questioned its ratification and previous signing, because the situation has changed. Radicals spoke very critically of the provisions of the Agreement. There is almost no stone left on the stone of that agreement, and now they will accept an interpretative declaration accepting it. I'm not sure, even if we put aside this main argument of ours, that our partner does not give us guarantees of mutual rights and obligations, that he does not respect our sovereignty and territorial integrity. If this is put aside, it is not clear whether or not the Government will follow this interpretative declaration. It is not clear, not because we are in advance doubting the government, but because we have enough empirical indicators that it has entered into a combination with the EU around Eulex. Whoever doesn't see it doesn't see what's going on politically. So, the DSS has no problem staying on the ice, as he chose to express himself, Mr. Bajatovic. The DSS, simply, implements its policy as it has done so far and thinks that the only way to put this thing on its good feet is to insist with this unsuspected partner, the European Union, that such guarantees are given in the agreement itself. If they are not given, then it is clear that we are entering European integration without KIM, and that is what the DSS cannot accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1888	Thank you. Mr. Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1889	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want this to turn out to be a polemic with the DSS when it comes to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but I do remember, Mr Samardzic, that I personally asked you a question when the SAA was on the agenda, relating to Article 135, whether this agreement applies to Serbia with KIM. You went out for a pay phone and said that the agreement refers to Serbia by counting the KIMs that are part of Serbia under Resolution 1244, i.e. the sovereignty of Serbia is recognised. You here now, in advance, express your suspicion that something will happen, that this current government, which you do not trust... To be clear, there's no dilemma about it, we don't believe anything (which our people say, sitting on a hot sheet and letting a couple out of their mouths, we wouldn't believe them), but we believe some things that are written. If you had already had doubts, and you were several times in a coalition with almost all current participants in power, then in advance, during the negotiations, when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was drawn up, but at that time, without any dilemma, that you would not leave any possible interpretation or any other approach when it comes to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and that already at that time, you would firmly install members that involve only and exclusively an agreement that respects Serbia within its borders within which it is in the United Nations. And we wouldn't have that problem at all right now. What is the objective of this amendment? The possibility, which the majority already represents, to be conditioned in some way, to say that we mean this Stabilisation and Association Agreement only with Kosovo and Metohija, as Serbia is recognised in the UN, or within its borders. We are the first to move, the second is the EU. This law, with this amendment, should be accepted or not. If she accepts it, and that's exactly what we mean by it, I have no doubt that they will try to cheat as they've cheated before, but it says - if they don't accept it, if they cheat, they don't commit us to accept this Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1890	Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1891	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I approach, I hear they're getting here: it's the militia again. Yes, it's the militia again. I can't help but think of one terrible deep impression, which has continued to try to force SRS and SPS MPs this afternoon. It all comes down to one simple sentence from cartoons -- if you can't beat him, and you join him. We keep trying to say that this country's policy cannot be shortsighted and that it must be run very responsibly, especially at the moment. We are all infinitely aware of the weight of this moment and the weight of this which is why we are here today. I'm saying that during the campaign, which was obviously a long time ago, so some now don't remember what they said in it, there was one political message that they would never sign the SAA. Now their representative comes out here calling the DSS to stay on the ice. There's no problem with the DSS being on the ice. Mr. Samardzic said almost 90% of what I wanted to say before me and I don't want to say it again. What I have here as an impression, is that you're trying to get the DSS to sign and that, to share responsibility. We may have completely misunderstood what you're trying to do today (especially me), but what is the essence of what I'm trying to say, we've said our position on all of this, the circumstances have changed. There's one thing that keeps trying. What is it that you don't want to do now? Imagine the situation Serbia was in in November 2007. Did the EU argue that it recognises Serbia within internationally recognised borders, that Resolution 1244 applies? What happened in December? Did they impose a change of attitude? Did they recognise Kosovo as an independent state in February? Do we now have to believe that those we want to make a deal with, who cheated on us during the making of that deal, that deal will honor us? I just can't believe it. Circumstances were completely different the moment this agreement was made. Today they're completely different.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1892	The word is Mr. Samardzic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1893	Just a replica of what Mr. Todorovic was saying. Of course, I remember that discussion well on December 26th. It was a time when the agreement was negotiated, initialled and Resolution 1244 also applied to the EU. What it says in that agreement, in Article 135, in the second sentence of the second sentence of the second position, concerns the current state of kiM. The current situation at the time was in line with Resolution 1244 for both the EU and EU member states. Then I made a parallel with Cyprus, so I said: The agreement refers analoguely to Serbia, but it does not refer to one part of it that is under international administration. Note that the matter has changed so much, that in the meantime KIM has been recognised as an independent state of Kosovo, and that Northern Cyprus has never been recognised as an independent state. That's the big difference. By the way, I'd just like to remind you of the resolution that we then adopted in the Assembly and the parts of the Eulex resolution. Compare that part of the Eulex resolution and what the government has been doing for a month now regarding Eulex, for which you have many facts. Just compare that and see who you're actually making this interpretative declaration with and who you're actually adopting the SAA with, even with an interpretative declaration.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1894	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1895	The adoption of this amendment follows the principle of the SRS: 'Strengthen to Europe'. That was our motive. If the amendment hadn't been accepted, we'd certainly be against it. I remind you that you have ruled Serbia for eight years, that you ruled Serbia on the day KIM independence was declared. What did you do that day? You had the Prime Minister, you had all the power. What did you do that day? Nothing. Did you perform in any way like now, when you're in opposition? Well, it doesn't turn Earth for a night compared to whether you're in power or in opposition. With you, Mr. Samardzic, I had the controversy because, as Minister, you underestimated the MPs at the House of National Assembly session and you finally said that we don't know anything, that we don't understand anything, that only you know what KIM is, that only you know how long it's been in the defense of KIM. Here's where it came from. This is the cross-section of the government you participated in. This government is moving from that position, trying to go very badly, we've partially corrected that course. So there's no humiliation. It wasn't enough for me for the president of the assembly to say, "I find it unacceptable for me to have the independence of the KIM," that the government would say, "We'll never admit..." No, I need a law that will oblige the government, when it implements the Agreement, to implement it with Serbia in which KIM is composed. The situation is extremely difficult. It would be easiest for me, as a man, if this government fell, if we didn't have the bread to eat, but as a citizen of Serbia, as a man who wants his grandchildren to live in a rich country, I feel a sense of responsibility. I'd like to trip this government whenever it makes a bad move, and I'd like to help her not make a bad move. And we've never written amendments to be written so that they can be thrown, but to see our position on every problem. When you write the amendment, what will you do when you're accepted? So, some text was not acceptable to you, ideologically or in any way, you have an amendment that you say is being fixed and they accept it. What do we have to do now? I've been convincing your president for two months that this should be accepted. I don't understand today why you don't accept this. What is the difference between the time you initialled the Agreement and knew that everyone would recognise independence because you had been running away from the problems of Kosovo and Metohija for eight years? All governments, from Zoran Djindjic to today, fled Kosovo and Metohija. They didn't care what happened. You had your employees there, they had theirs, G17 plus theirs. Whoever was in your parties could live in Kosovo and Metohija. The other poor woman was guarding Kosovo and Metohija. Now let's all put ourselves in the defense of Kosovo and Metohija. Is that gonna bring down the SRS? Let him tear it down, but it will defend Kosovo and Metohija. When I said you needed to execute the mobilization, then when everything was burned alive in Kosovo and Metohija, you said I wanted a war to kill other people's children. Here, I now want to defend Kosovo in another way. It can't be war, you've ruined the army, there's no way we can defend it anymore. Then let's do it another way. Let's get this assembly ready to vote unitedly on Kosovo and Metohija. It's easy for a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija. We swear -- we'll keep Kosovo and Metohija -- who's in favour? - We're all in. Do you think it's easy for these people to go to some negotiations now and they know they're waiting for them by the assembly that ordered them to always talk about Kosovo and Metohija? Let them only betray, let them try, let us see what happens in the land. But I don't understand that resistance. We're in a situation where you've brought us all together in eight years. We've left you an unfavourable situation, and now you've led it to a minimum below which there is no survival of the state. Can we start slowly raising Serbia's presence in Kosovo and Metohija? I think we can. Should we go to the EU? It should, but not at all, but as we have written, and it must respect every government official and those who receive free wages for eight years because they are in some European integrations. For another 20 years, we'd be in these European integrations, boasting on TV, and we're not going anywhere. Now let me see you when you get this. Let me see this improvement in Serbia, see these investments, see that progress, and never admit that Kosovo and Metohija are not our territory again. And for God's sake, if the Socialists come to their senses again, one of them will say, "We will fight for Kosovo and Metohija." That was the attitude two or three months ago. Let me tell you, it's not easy for the SRS to vote like any government when we're in opposition, because there's no better government than we are, but, come on, when it comes to Serbia... Here, Russia, the deal, on Monday, Tuesday, when it's on the agenda, we'll be "for." I hope there will be all the representatives of the government for the agreement. I don't think anyone's gonna mind. Don't, Mr. Samardzic. I wouldn't want to make any kind of conflict with you. We'll need you, we'll need you. This is a very bad government. We need to bring this government down as soon as possible. It's just, we shouldn't let her make any bad moves that would involve us in something that we won't be able to correct. I know that we will form a new government of Serbia and therefore I ask you – don't come into conflict with us. If there is to be a conflict, let Vojislav Kostunica do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1896	The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1897	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 100. I believe, more or less, that it is clear to all of you in the hall that the debate that has now been launched in parliament, in an atmosphere similar to Parliament, may be the most serious thing we have heard in the last few years in this assembly. The differences that existed and which currently exist between us are serious, large, and I am glad to see that we have reduced these differences in at least one segment, in the segment of which we are bound by the interests of our citizens. All those who interpret the adoption of this amendment as issuing national interests should know what was said so many times yesterday and what was said during today's discussion. First of all, it's never too late to question politics. Secondly, it is not true that this vote changed the Serbian state's attitude towards Kosovo. Mr Samardzic, I believe it is clear to you as well as to any MP that the Serbian parliament's relationship to Kosovo stems from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You supported that constitution. We ran an anti-referendum campaign because we disagreed with that constitution. When we want to change Serbia's attitude towards Kosovo, we will go before the citizens of Serbia and ask them for support for some new policy. At this point, European integration obliges us to overcome the differences that can be overcome. It's a good thing the government understood that, I hope the Deputy Prime Minister, as a representative of the government, will, in fact, push that form, which is so much today, aside and put before us facts that are really encouraging. If we want to change the country, we have to change our relationship. If these relationships change, they need to change primarily by taking care of those vital interests of our society, those interests that are currently so expressed and alive, not neglecting those questions that are serious, which are inherited, to which we must give the answer again. We do not see a meaning in European integration, which is supported by 142 MPs, but we see a meaning in those European integrations beyond each party context. There wouldn't have been this debate if the SRS hadn't made it possible yesterday. Two days ago, we cursed the children here, turned our head from the fact that a party sympathiser died in demonstrations, and today we are talking about topics and issues that will benefit most of the country's citizens. We are voting for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement as a step in the direction in which, at least formally, so many times Serbia has tried to lead Kostunica. We couldn't agree with your Kosovo policy, but we talked very clearly about the disagreement at those times in which this Kosovo policy was the priority of our parliament. The amendment has been changed. The amended amendment raises no question about Kosovo's status within Serbia, and I don't see why the Serb assembly couldn't say what every Brussels official said that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement could not be seen and seen as giving consent to what happened in Kosovo on February 17th 2008. None of the parties in the Serb assembly agreed. Someone disagreed with the way, and someone doesn't think that we should make peace with that real picture at all. We will talk a lot more about Kosovo, but it would be good if we were given the opportunity to live more than this Kosovo reality, to pay more attention, among other things, to the interests of the Serb community in Kosovo, which is and how it is neglected and which is a major victim of the wrong policy that has been being led here for years. It would not be good to turn this debate into a measurement of our patriotism and love for the country, but it would be good to see this debate as the first positive shift in the long history of our parliamentaryism that we have lived in trenches, not taking care of the fact that we are so similar to each other over these trenches. I am also pleased by the government's willingness to reconsider the amendment and willingness of the SRS to show the public what we have seen so often in it. It is a good thing that more than 200 MPs of the Serbian Assembly will vote for this agreement and I hope that sooner or later you will join that policy that does not reduce all the other differences that are so expressed between us. In the next item of the agenda, you will agree with the DS and the SRS, so if there is such an understanding in relation to Russia, then let us strike a balance and show the same understanding in relation to Europe, and in the first and second cases we are leading, first and foremost, account for the interests of this country, our society and every man for whom we have taken responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1898	The word is Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know whether to defend myself against these praises of Chad, but to return to Mr Samardzic. Mr. Samardzic, it's just amazing that today you're telling some of the facts that we told you in December 2007. You knew the Cyprus situation back then, the way it was admitted into the European Union, and we respected it and warned you that you did nothing to allow Serbia into the European Union to be admitted in the same way that Cyprus was admitted. You say Resolution 1244 no longer applies. That's not true. It is valid, but it has been trampled by 21 countries of the European Union. One number of states isn't. A huge number of countries in the world do not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence. You know what the problem is now? That you are now expressing fear and fear that they will deceive us. Since October 2000, Mr Samardzic, how many times have you been deceived by 2007, so you entered into writing this agreement? Do you remember who brought the SRJ into the United Nations after 50 years as a whole new state? Who turned the SRJ into the Serbia-Montenegro State Community? Well, who, Mr Samardzic, made it possible and recognised the results of a referendum in Montenegro which, apparently, was firstly stolen, and secondly, issues and how it was decided to accept the numbering of votes in Montenegro, made it clear in advance that everything has been set up and that Montenegro will separate from the Serbia-Montenegro state union and that defacto and dejure will do what the European Union and America have been trying to do since 1990. They didn't fool us at all. We have done everything in our power to defend ourselves with all possible and available means. As far as we did, we did, we're going to talk about history, but you're going a completely different way, another way, and you came into the same situation as we did, with that difference that we were defending ourselves, and you thought that with negotiations, concessions, you'd eventually be able to preserve what you thought you'd save. I can't be against it at all that you wanted to keep it the way you thought it would be best, but it proved unsuccessful. Now this single sentence or paragraph gives us the opportunity to tell the European Union what the SRS has been saying all along -- we want to join the European Union, but on one condition, that Serbia joins the European Union with Kosovo and Metohija. He'll have this proposal. If they don't accept it, it doesn't apply to us. For us, Serbian radicals, that absolutely does not apply and that is something that is completely clear. Are they going to cheat? It's possible-- haven't they cheated so many times before? - but at least we have what is important to us, written that we accept this agreement only if Kosovo and Metohija are accepted within Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1900	The word is Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1901	I don't think we should convince ourselves of anything anymore. My intention wasn't to convince anyone of the correctness of DSS policy, far from it. I just want to make things clear. I didn't mention the word "false" in our relationship with our former coalition partner. Simply, the policies have changed enough for us to get out of that government and not follow that policy that was common. That's one thing. Secondly, there is no need to mix the causes and consequences. This is at the expense of what Tomislav Nikolic said about DSS politics. Namely, the DSS did not today change its policy on Kosovo and Metohija because it is in the opposition, but is in opposition because it led the policy on Kosovo and Metohija as it led. That, therefore, is quite clear. I have no intention of continuing the controversy or this dialogue, since everything is known and the positions are completely clear and clear. All I want to do is, in a few sentences, defend that policy that this party was leading while it was in power. She, therefore, insisted on negotiations, negotiated, tried this legitimate method to preserve the state. As long as the state had a single policy (it is my firm opinion) based on the clearest and strongest DSS stance in the government, it defended Kosovo and Metohija in the international community as she knew and could. When our coalition partner's policy fell under the pressure of reality, under the pressure of recognition, under the pressure of various threats from the European Union, etc., we simply came out and there are no dilemmas. I want that fact to be confirmed again in this assembly, even if I'm talking about it. Otherwise, there are no essential problems. We're all making moves that we're sure are right. Practice will soon show, or some time later, who was where he was and what the consequences of his decisions were. I think it's something that's extremely legitimate in this congregation. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1902	Thank you. The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1903	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am extremely sorry that there have been these misunderstandings, replicas and these discussions at the end of the debate. I thought we understood something that we should have realized, that those who think well of Serbia do everything to join the European Union with dignity, uprightness and as partners of the European Union. I do not trust anyone (this has taught me life), and at least to the European Union because we have repeatedly made a decision in our Parliament to make declarations, resolutions, to remind them that human rights are being violated, that what is happening is happening, that it is unlawfully taking Kosovo, etc., and they are doing their job. Ahtisaari's plan, in addition to all our remarks, was accepted to the last letter. The SRS amendment, a good amendment, speaks of our Constitution. We respect the Constitution and ask it to be incorporated into the Agreement. So let's be serious. We cannot accept the agreement and they will wave an agreement ratified in the Serbian parliament by a vast majority, so they say we are not interested in your amendment and your decision, any one of your parliaments, because you signed the agreement. I would ask our leaders, Prime Minister, President, Mr Djelic, who has actively dealt with this agreement and the signatories of this agreement to discuss these days, until the vote, with the European Union, that they declare whether they accept this objection, this amendment that is in line with the Constitution of Serbia, with the Resolution and the Declaration, of course with the United Nations Security Council decision, that Serbia, as one sovereign state, wants to protect its sovereignty throughout the territory. Otherwise, if it comes out against it, it doesn't make sense to ratify a contract and have some kind of internal agreement that no one in the world will ever accept. So I'm asking you to be serious, let's take this very seriously. That's what I asked the government for, and I wasn't going to sign an agreement the way it is until it got into it this thing that we talked about and what we've been having this debate about these days. Serbia is unique, with Kosovo -- to install it. That's two sentences, and it'll all be in the best order. We'll honor our Constitution. Gentlemen, if you think our constitution is not good, enter the process of his change. Until this is over, we must respect him. If we don't respect our Constitution, if we break it and let a ratified agreement wave the whole world and say, "Here, they accept, and internally what they brought, we don't care -- then we humiliated, underestimated, humiliated our own country." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1904	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1905	I don't want to spread the conflict, and I won't want any more radicals to mess with DSS representatives, but there's a war ahead of us, but I have to tell you something, Mr. Samardzic. You didn't go into opposition because you were consistent with KIM or any other policy. You went into opposition because you had no wisdom or ran away from responsibility. History will show it. You had partners so we wouldn't go to the election at all, but you've taken some of your size. As Milosevic thought he was sure to win the election in 2000, so you, too, seemed to be convinced that you would win this election. I haven't noticed too much honesty in the negotiations on the composition of the government. It all kind of seems to me that that potato was too hot for you and that one day you thought it was too hot. That's why, let's see how it goes, but in an agreement that you've concluded with them, initialled with them yourself, it's impossible to enter anything, and you know it very well. So either there will be an agreement or there will be no agreement. I've heard from you that it's impossible to change the agreement. These are our obligations. The question is whether this will be ratified by any state that has recognised the independence of KIM (I am convinced it will not) and the question is whether the EU Assembly will ratify an agreement in which we say we do not recognise their acceptance of KIM independence. So we're about to have a big fight where parliament would have to be complicated about KIM's fate, but I don't want to argue with you. A few years ago, we are already saying that we are ready for Serbia to join the EU, but on the condition that they treat us as people who are upright, proud and safeguard their country. This ratification law forces all government officials, the Prime Minister, the State, the Assembly to protect their country. So, call us the day when we allow the government to make any move that tramples our basic idea from this amendment that Serbia is unique and that there is a kiM in its composition. You know how difficult and responsible it is, and you yourself participated in the defense of KIM. Some big positive steps couldn't be, I'm not accusing you of not being there, there couldn't be any, but now you need to move on. Or do you think we shouldn't go any further because we put ourselves in a situation where we hit our heads against the wall? As far as the SRS is concerned, whenever someone wanted to defend the country, even if he was our worst political rival, from Milosevic to today, he had our support. We were never an opposition to anyone defending the country, which is why we lost the election after that, but simply, it's our ideology, which is what Vojislav Seselj taught us. He who defends the land needs help. If you're not in a position to decide how to defend yourself, help whoever's defending her. It separates us from other political parties, which seem to have not yet been able to determine when they are in power and measure when they are in opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1906	Dear People's MPs, you have received reports from the Legislative and European Integration Committee. Do these committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Does Mr Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Science and Technological Development, want to give the final word, or to declare the amendment? Yeah. ) The SRS has 10 minutes left. I've been informed that the others have given up or their time has run out. So the SRS has 10 minutes left. The word is Mr. Professor. Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1907	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday, during the discussion of the SAA and the Transition Agreement, Mr Djelic, as Deputy Prime Minister, pointed out here in particular that these two important documents, which our Assembly should ratify, should have an impact on one significant economic area, which is agriculture. For these reasons, it is completely unclear for me that in these two days of discussion, none of the members and representatives of the ruling coalition, in particular the MPs, but also Mr Djelic himself, has understood how these two documents that we ratify will affect and what good or possibly bad will bring to our agricultural production. The experience of countries that have joined the European Union over the past years is that these countries' EU accession has enabled them to significantly improve and develop agricultural production. I absolutely hope that this will happen in our country, but I think that our agricultural producers, who are very hard to live and hard to do in all these years, deserve to be given a broader design of what our agricultural production and our agricultural producers expect in the coming years. In the time available, I will try, as a representative of the opposition SRS, to present some facts relating to the area of agricultural production, to our current status in the area of international trade, and what possible EU accession will bring to that agricultural production. It is stated here that during the period of implementation of these agreements, meaning over the next six years, customs duties should be completely abolished on about 85% of products that are in our country's mutual exchange with the EU. How have we protected our agricultural production from the impact of competition, above all, from economically and agriculturally many developed countries? Those are, first of all, customs. There have been three basic customs instruments in our country so far. That's, first of all, so-called. ad valorem customs, then so on. seasonal customs duties and special duties that we most often called levies in the people. The average level of customs protection of our country's agricultural products, measured by ad valorem tariffs, is currently at 21%. The customs duties of agricultural products with this percentage amount were protected by our agricultural producers and our agricultural production. Over the next six years, these 21% of customs duties, not counting seasonal customs, will remain less than 15% of our agricultural products, and for most others they will be abolished. Currently, the highest degree of protection by competition is enjoyed by refined sugar, meat, milk and milk products, then various drinks, food products from cereals and flour and vegetables. What is our current situation in the area of agricultural exports? According to data from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, we exported agricultural products worth 1,690,000,000 and imported around 1.116,000,000 in 2007. The majority of exports refer to fruit and vegetables with 28%, then cereals 22%, sugar 10%, alcohol 9%, meat 6%, tobacco 2% and other agricultural products around 23%. Where are these products in the largest volume exported? Here, Mr Djelic said it was most exported to the EU. However, I think it's either my wrong registration or my misrepresented fact. Most of our agricultural products were exported to BiH last year. Of the total exports, 25% were exported to BiH, 12% to Macedonia, of the EU's most exported to Germany, about 13%, then Italy and France, about 15%. Of the surrounding countries, these are Croatia, Romania and Bulgaria, which are, indeed, in the EU, but there is a modest volume of exports. How much is our export compared to the developed countries of Europe? Our exports to agriculture account for about $160 per capita or, according to the so-called An active farmer, 305 dollars. According to FAO 2005 data, the average export of agricultural products per active farmer in the Netherlands is $60,000, in Denmark $35,000, in France $15,000. Let our agricultural producers assess what it will mean for our agricultural production that countries that have this level of exports of agricultural products by active agriculturals, when their products can enter here without customs, how competitive it will be for our agricultural production, or rather, how competitive we will be in those markets. What will bring benefits to our agricultural production is the use of so-called agricultural production. IPA funds or pre-accession funds. For the area of agricultural production, the possibility of using these funds will only be when our country gets candidate status. Yesterday, we could hear in talks with EU representatives that this is expected in 2009, with it being unclear whether it will be early, mid- or late in the year. So only then will our country be able to use those three pre-accession funds that we cannot currently use, which is support for regional development policies, support for human resources development and support for rural development where most of these EU funds will now go towards the development of agricultural production. Our country is agrarian and certainly all policies, both these and some future governments, will be in terms of the development of agricultural production and we must certainly do much more to make our agricultural production competitive not to the European and world market. But in order to do so, first this government and this parliament must adopt a much larger agrarian budget. I hope, with the budget rebalancing, that much more funds will be allocated than has been allocated this year. We must certainly stabilise primary agricultural production because we have terrible oscillations precisely in basic, primary agricultural production. We need to improve the quality of our agricultural production, we need to comply with standards, and a much greater number of legislation to bring in from the area of agricultural production that will be in line with EU rules. Furthermore, to change the structure of agricultural production, to focus much more on the cultivation of industrial plants, vegetables, fruits and processed fruit, then cereals, especially corn and wheat, medicinal plants, organic production (we are a country that has a lot of clean spaces where organic production can be organised) and then meat production, primarily tow heroes and lambs... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... a significant improvement in marketing and definition of goods with a trade mark and a much larger number of products with defined geographical origin. These are all the jobs that our government, the Ministry of Agriculture, ultimately and we all have to do by adopting this agreement to help and improve the area of agricultural production. Finally, I must regret to say that I expected you, representatives of the ruling coalition, to present what I said, but I sincerely hope that a large number of citizens in our country believe the representatives of opposition parties, especially representatives of the SRS. In this time alone in a small amount I have presented what will be positive, but also negative for our agricultural production, but also for the adoption of budget or new budget rebalancing will be an opportunity for us to talk much more and more in detail. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1908	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Bozidar Delic, please come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1909	Article 226. I would take the opportunity, since Mr. Djelic is here, to ask him two questions that are very important to me. Mr Djelic, is this a type agreement signed by other countries, such as Croatia, Albania, Macedonia, Montenegro... (I'm not going any further) In principle, is this a type of agreement? All you can do is nod your head to answer me, so I can move on to another question. ( Bozidar Djelic, from the place: Little did, little did. So, in principle, this is a type of agreement. Since you, Mr. Djelic, were preparing a pen to sign, my second question to be answered today or tomorrow is, why did we sign the worst version of the agreement? Now I'm going to read it to you because you specifically named Croatia here. You wanted to show us that we signed a better agreement than the Croats. Article 49 point 5.b) of the Croatian document, or be it Article 53 point (b) of our agreement - after the entry into force of this Agreement, the companies of the daughters of the companies of the community will have the right to acquire and enjoy property rights on immovable property, as well as Serbian companies, and in terms of public goods, goods of general interest, the same rights enjoyed by Serbian companies when these rights are necessary for the exercise of business activities for which they are established. It's the same thing that says about us and the Croats. But the Croats, whom you say are worse than us, have put the next clause -- including natural resources, agricultural land, forests and forest land. Gentlemen, these four words are crucial. You can write whatever you want in 860 pages, you haven't protected natural resources and you haven't protected your country at all. Only Montenegrins and Macedonians signed something like this, and you know what these countries are like. The Czech Republic, Slovakia, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria -- have protective measures for at least seven years. Furthermore, this article has been talking about four years. Poland has maintained these measures for 15 years. So for 15 years, he won't let anyone buy her something called natural wealth, something called agricultural land, which is called forests and forest land. This is why I think we signed an extremely bad agreement. Mr. Djelic, you must explain, since you say you read from word to word - why didn't you sign something like Albania, Croatia, Slovenia, Poland and other countries? For me, these four ordinary words that are missing in this agreement are crucial. We did not protect natural resources, agricultural land, forests and forest land. The fact that we wrote in the 2006 Agricultural Land Act that the owner of agricultural land cannot be a foreign natural person, i.e. a legal person, when it comes to an international agreement, I don't think so. I expect this explanation from you, but I also think that the citizens of Serbia are expecting it. I think it's extremely bad that we have an agreement without safeguard clauses. Other countries have kept these safeguard clauses for 15 years. You can see in the newspapers that the EU is angry with Slovenia for not allowing ownership of its wealth after so many years, foreign natural or legal persons can also have over its land.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1910	Since the lists are no longer signed up for the word, and parliamentary groups have used their time to discuss this item of the agenda, before concluding a joint single search, I ask if they want to speak to the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not yet used this right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure, which are DSS, G 17 plus, for European Serbia and PUPS? No, I don't. ) Does Mr Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Science and Technological Development want to give the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1911	Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, similar to what was said this afternoon, I believe that today was one of the most qualitative discussions that I have heard, at least since I took part in Serbia's public life, because a very important agreement has been discussed and a very important moment for our country. Some positions have been made known and it seems to me that now, at the end of this debate, we can also lead this discussion to a logical end and a very high-quality conclusion for the citizens of our country, regardless of which political party they have defined. I'm going to try to answer, of course not all the questions that were raised during this discussion, it takes a lot of time, but in any case, I want to say that this agreement also provides for a series of institutional mechanisms that will take care of its proper application. One more thing, which is that it is a matter of living matter where, for example, if one of the two parties finds that some provision of this contract in any way can endanger her vital interests, of course she can run, through the mechanisms provided for in this Agreement, and an additional discussion, even if there is an agreement of both sides, changes in this Treaty. I also want to say that this contract is not the last contractual relationship we will have if this esteemed home decides to ratify this agreement. We will have one contract that will allow us to join the EU. A number of issues raised today will be clarified. That, I must say, refers particularly to the very important issues that my almost noun Mr. Bozidar Delic has launched in his presentation, but let me answer in the shortest lines on the issues of the most important topics that have been launched here. As for the very question whether we have negotiated this well or not, it is true that, on the one hand, every country that wants to join the EU is struggling for its own interests. The truth is, too, that the bigger and bigger the club is, the more the situation is for a new, potential candidate, the more difficult it is. There should be no illusion or romance about these European integrations. That was not the case, and I just want to give an example of what European integration was, for example, for one Spain or Portugal, so what was it for those countries that joined the EU in 2004 and what is potential for us. It is true that, while the EU had fewer members and was in greater economic expansion, both the European funds and the way this EU enlargement was conducted were more generous. That's true, that's just right. Spain, for example, received several percent of its gross domestic product in the form of direct European aid every year. These are figures that, for example, make it possible for Greece, which, with some eleven million people, is at a level of development that is eight to ten times better than Serbia, to receive 6.5 billion euros directly from the European budget each year. It is true that some countries have some form of rent that they entered earlier in that rich country club and it is true that not everything is fair in this process. If we look fully at this European budget and the conditions offered to those who want to join the EU, we could talk to the Member States for a long time. We do so, but in essence and among the existing members, this debate is constantly taking place in terms of fairness, not only in the allocation of funds, but also in the manner and mechanisms that are institutional in the decision-making process. In fact, this has also led to a crisis affecting the EU at times. We have one today, and it will be resolved, which I am deeply convinced of, as has been the case every time in the last 50 years of European integration, but it will certainly not be the last crisis known by this unique creation of the EU. On the other hand, we, like Serbia, with all the problems we have had, must be determined not by whether the EU gives us the same chances and opportunities as it gave Spain more than 20 years ago, when it joined the EU, or, as we have heard, some countries that had the opportunity to sign similar agreements several years ago. Of course, it is a question of ethics, but at the same time we must, as responsible people, set ourselves to reality and those alternatives that we have as a country. In that sense, I want to say unequivocally to the strategic branches of our industry that we have put great effort and come across a dose of understanding, of course, not at that level that we all wanted to achieve, it's a question of negotiations, but to a very significant extent for what agriculture is. As far as our national goods are concerned, I must say, above all, what the strategic resources of a particular country are, that there are two ways in which it is treated, independent of European integration. On the one hand, that means they're not sold, they're given in concessions, and the other way is that if it's absolutely strategic, then it doesn't have to be sold. There are several ways known. Public enterprises are one thing. There are many other mechanisms and, of course, one of the very important jobs that await our government, this esteemed home, is to define these directions and to pass the relevant laws. There was a lot of talk about city building land. We have a large number of problems with agricultural land. There have been privatisations where a number of privatized buildings, for example, have the use of state land, there are great tensions at the local place because local self-governments have to decide each year on a bid to exploit these goods. Obviously we don't have a good solution, but in any case, what's for sure is that when we look at this agreement, we see that it opens up a large number of opportunities for our country, it opens the door to the world's largest market of half a billion consumers in a stable way. Also, there were words about one, let me say, the market that allows our producers to find a place on it, it is close, consumer habits are not so far from ours in terms of those products that are being sought. Of course, the difference in the level of life is still great. But anyway, for agriculture, industry and opportunities for our businesses, this is an agreement that is in the deep national interest of our country. We through this agreement allow domestic and foreign investors to see very clearly which direction our country is heading, which is the degree of protection and more than that, to know whether a particular customs duty is higher or lower by one or two percent. Very often our businessmen will say: it is important for us to know what it will be both today and tomorrow and in three and in five and in seven and eight years. It is a great virtue of such a contractual relationship because it brings predictability in business conditions and allows all to be determined by them. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is Serbia's best ally in the fight against unemployment. All the EU countries that have entered it over the past 25 years have had a uniform decline in unemployment rates. This was especially seen in those who have joined the EU over the past few years, I think of those seven Eastern European countries that entered in 2004, including our neighbours from Romania and Bulgaria. Although, as we all know, there are still great difficulties with them. European integration does not go without a problem, as we all know well. In Bulgaria and Romania, the unemployment rate is halved and it is very low today, to the extent that the debate in these countries is more about how to provide enough labour than how to provide enough jobs for those who live and work there. I want to say at the same time, as far as this agreement is concerned, that it is essentially a trade agreement, but it is also true, as it has been said several times during this debate, that it has several elements that are very important and concerning institutional reforms. It is true that this agreement obliges Serbia to improve its legislation in the area of competition protection. It is true that Serbia is engaged in this agreement to provide the same conditions for business, with the fact that, of course, the example of public procurement is that we have a transitional period of five years, during which we will have time to coordinate the same conditions for foreign and domestic businesses. As you know, according to our law on public procurement, for example, domestic businesses have an advantage of 20% in price. It's something that, hopefully, by signing and ratifying this agreement now, it won't go away, but within five years it will be harmonised. From the moment of ratification of this agreement, our companies will be treated as domestic enterprises in all EU member states' markets and, which is not irrelevant, in all those elements of the European budget that are being spent anywhere, so that they can compete. It may seem difficult today, but believe me, with these businessmen, business will be very much easier. There have been many stories about whether our country, ratifying this agreement, is giving up Kosovo in any way. The answer is no. The answer is that our country will never agree to give up Kosovo. In a pre-election campaign and today things are trying to show up, that Serbia is naive to some cunning Europeans, that in this way, expecting some economic advantages through this Stabilisation Agreement, it can lose what it loves most, and that is its integrity and state integrity. That's just not true. The EU has neither the power to decide on this issue nor is it unique in this matter. A few MPs talked about it during the debate -- let's hear what those who support us in the fight for our territorial integrity say. When we hear the president of Romania, a country that said it would not recognise the independence of KIM, when we listen to what our counterparts from Cyprus tell us, and not to talk about what was the tones and recommendations of our allies from the Russian Federation, it is unequivocally said that it is in Serbia's best interest, as well as in the fight for its integrity and territorial integrity, to continue through European integration. Serbia has been wronged, and it must now wonder what is the best way to deal with this injustice. It's not the first time in our history, but those who really know our history know that we have never succeeded in self-insulating, that it was never a successful policy of empty chair, a vacuum policy, but Serbia that bravely faces problems, those who have done injustice, the one who is stronger, the one who is able to defend its interests. In that sense, Madam Chairman, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, during this debate we had the opportunity to further improve this text. If it was already a question of whether and legally arranged that Serbia is ready to join the EU, but that it will not accept being blackmailed in any way, nor to give in to KIM in order to join the EU, I think we saw very clearly during this discussion that there is an extremely broad consensus on such a position. Therefore, I am pleased to say that on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I accept the amendment proposed by Mr Tomislav Nikolic because in this way, with three key strategic directions, which are the defence of our territorial integrity, on the one hand, our entry into the EU as soon as possible or not at the cost of losing our territorial integrity, and under three, I hope as the next item of the agenda of this session of the National Assembly, to confirm our desire to build privileged relations with the Russian Federation, to show that we are one serious country that makes it very clear to the whole world, to our allies and to those who may today see some important issues in the same direction as we do, that we have about what is the most important national unity. That in no way means that we agree, position and opposition, about everything. Far from it. That, of course, doesn't mean that the fight won't be fierce in weeks, months, years to come. The struggle for power is a normal thing, but I, like what some have already said, believe that today's session and this part of the agenda play a very important role. At times, when things happen, we may not see their importance, but I believe that, like what happened a few years ago, when a consensus was formed on our state policy, on Kosovo and Metohija, today's session and this point that forms in a clear way and under clear conditions, what is a consensus for EU entry, of first-class importance to our country. Politicians come and go, governments come and go, the state above us and Serbia today, in 2008, it says very clearly: yes, we want to join the EU as soon as possible, but we will never recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, and we will build privileged relations with the Russian Federation. There is, I think, something that has been done that rarely happens in our political life. We're all getting out of this. We're all getting stronger. What's very important, in technical terms, is that we accept the amendment with the correction. To be very clear, it's something professional services know, in a formal sense, and so to be said at the session. Some might say that the government has been strengthened by this, but I think the opposition who vote for this agreement will also come out stronger. But it's not that important. In this way and by ratifying this agreement, Serbia will be strengthened and that is all that matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-09-04-0.u1912	Thank you. I am concluding a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law confirming the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Serbia, of the other part, and the Proposal for a Law confirming the Transitional Agreement on Trade and Trade Affairs between the European Community, of the one part, and the Republic of Serbia, of the other part. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. The item of the agenda is, as you know, the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Co-operation in the field of oil and gas economy. Thank you for your work. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 137 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 99 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am, on the basis of Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia called for the session to be attended by Tatjana Jovanovic, head of the Office of Minister of Mining and Energy. We continue to work towards the agenda. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Saradication in the Area of Oil and Gas Economy You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Dr Vladan Batic and together Bojan Kostreš, Radovan Radovanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Olena Papuga and Daniel Petrovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. I remind you, according to Article 149a point 3, and corresponding to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the SRS parliamentary group - hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the MEP Group for European Serbia - hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the DSS parliamentary group - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP - 15 minutes and 36 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Srbija - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Slavic group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds; and the PUPS - six minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the representatives of the parliamentary groups are authorised under this agenda, except for the DSS, where Nenad Popovic is. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Cedomir Jovanovic reported.
