ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-16-0.u1301	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record, I find that the sittings are attended by 172 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 113 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Radojko Obradovic and Dragoljub Micunovic. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the meeting to be attended by representatives of the Association of Families Kidnapped and Killed in 1998-1999 in Kosovo and Metohija, which I welcome. According to Article 84(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called for this session on Wednesday, 16 July 2008, so within a shorter period than the deadline laid down in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in advance of a particular agenda. Please, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, we haven't started work yet. You'll get your word later. You have received the resignations of Goran Bogdanovic, Oliver Dulic, Nadice Momirov, Vesna Martinović, Vladimir Jovanovic, Ana Tomanov-Makanovic, Ivica Dačić, Dr Jovan Krkobic, Milutin Mrkonjic, Dr Zarko Obradović, Branislav Nedimovic and Dragan Jovanovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of these resignations, which has determined that the resignation was the case of Article 88(2). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, 2 and 3 of the same law, determine the termination of the mandate for these MPs. In accordance with Article 88(2) and Article 2(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Board, finds that the mandate ended before the end of the time elected to the MPs Goran Bogdanovic, Oliver Dulic, Nadici Momirov, Vesni Martinović, Vladimir Jovanovic and Ana Tomanovic-Makanovic, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia - Boris Tadic, the People's MPs Ivica Dačić, Dr Jovana Krkobbiæ, Milutin Mrkonjic and Dr Zarko Obradovic, elected from the Electoral List of the Socialist Party of Serbia - the Party of United Pensioners of Serbia - Unity Serbia, and National MPs Branislav Nedimovic and Dragan Jovanovic, elected from the Democratic Party of Serbia - Nova Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. I set a break until 12.00 hours and ask the heads of the parliamentary groups, following the advertising of the Rules of Procedure that Mr Aligrudic did, to come to me for an agreement on today's work. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-16-0.u1302	Madam Chairman, first of all, you've injured Article 100. The Rules of Procedure, in which he says - the MP who wishes to speak of the violation of this Rules of Procedure - gives the President of the National Assembly the word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. Since the previous speaker was not, as you said earlier, because you have found a number of conditions in the National Assembly and started the work of the National Assembly, and it is not true that what you have just said that we have not started, because if we had not begun the work you would not have been able to determine the quorum needed to work, to realize that certain persons have justified their absence from the Assembly, you would not have been able to establish the resignations of the MPs and everything else, therefore you were obliged to give me the word by the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, in order not to report twice now, which I would normally be entitled to, consists in the following, therefore, in the injury of Article 27, in the infringements of Article 27. 134 to 144 in violation of Articles 160 and 104, of course, when it comes to the obligation to respect the dignity of MPs. Namely, at the time of the appointment of this session, because when I applied for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, first of all, that breach of the Rules of Procedure was applied to the way this session was scheduled and to your mission, to your failure when it came to the appointment of another session that you should have scheduled. Namely, a group of 108 MPs in this assembly, which are SRS and DSS-NS MPs, filed a request on 16 June 2008, to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 106. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, along with this request, submitted a proposal for what should be the item of the agenda and the extraordinary session, which is the proposal for a decision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, as two new circumstances arose after the so-called declaration. false Kosovo states, and unilateral independence, which are attempts to implement EULEX in Serbia's territory, as a mission that should support Ahtisaari's plan against Annex 10 of the same plan, which is practically supporting Kosovo and Metohija's independence, and another moment is the declaration of Kosovo's illegal constitution. These were the reasons why this group of MPs submitted this request. Instead, you have scheduled this extraordinary session, at which, among other points of the agenda on the government's proposal, there was a resolution on the continuity of state policy, etc., but as it is called, and you said yesterday, which is, of course, an integral part of your work and we can comment on it today, publicly at a press conference, that the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia was tabled before the proposal of this group of MPs, which is not true. That's why you've fooled the public. Proposal for an emergency session, subject to the condition set out in Article 106. The constitution was filed on June 16th. You wrote in a letter, as of July 15, 2008, as follows: ''By the reason of your letter sent to me on July 10, 2008 (in which I reminded you of these circumstances, I did not ask for anything, but I reminded you of these circumstances and asked you to comply with the obligation you have to comply with the provisions of Articles 27, 134 to 144 and 160. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly), since I only learned from it that on 16 June 2008, at a time when I had not yet been elected president of the National Assembly, a group of 108 MPs delivered to the National Assembly in the procedure of the Proposal for a decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, I hereby inform you that I have issued an order for this document to be multiplied and delivered to all MPs, which was also done during yesterday, i.e. July 14th. As for your request that the above-mentioned draft decision be classified as part of the agenda at the first next session of the National Assembly, I remind you that the National Assembly shall be held during the extraordinary session, and the agenda of the extraordinary session of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 106(3). The Constitution, in advance, was set out in the request of the authorised entity (at least one third of the Members of Parliament or Government), so there is no legal basis for supplementing the agenda of the extraordinary session, etc.’ No one asked you, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, to complete the agenda of this extraordinary session. We asked for an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, as an authorised proposing with an advanced agenda, within the meaning of Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You have disobeyed our request. One proposal on similar matters, but in a very different way, it solves the question that we wanted to talk about, you put it on the agenda yesterday and publicly deceived the public that the proposal had arrived before our proposal. This proposal arrived the other day, in July, and our proposal was seduced on June 16th. The fact that you were not then president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not diminish the importance of the proposal and the formal fact that the proposal is in the process and that anyone who is in the seat of the National Assembly must respect the proposal contained in the procedure. This is not a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, on the other hand, must be returned legally from the National Assembly of the Government to be re-proposed by the Government to the National Assembly, which happens with a series of laws and decisions proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is about proposals from MPs who remain in the procedure of the National Assembly, and your obligation was, when you wrote me a letter, to answer that question, and you didn't do it. So, due to a lack of time, while respecting that one part of my time has been taken away from me for quoting, this is what I'm finishing up for now, but we need to discuss this question well today before we even get to the realization of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-16-0.u1303	Mr. Aligrudic, as president of the Assembly, I am also a speaker, and I am also covered by the Rules of Procedure, and until I finish my presentation, I am unable to accept your suggestion to advertise the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, in a letter sent to me on July 10th, and everything that had happened before, and many of the acts were indeed sent to the chairmans of the Assembly before that, so I can answer for that period since I was elected president of the Assembly, you have told me in the second indent of your letter that you have requested that this proposal, which you have spoken of, and which is in the procedure, be classified as a part of the agenda at the first next session, is this session of the National Assembly, which is why I have answered you that this is not possible for business and for you quite clear reasons. So, the public should be familiar and, of course, gentlemen of the People's Parliament that on July 10th, I received from you a letter that I immediately responded to and that in the case of your proposals we will use all business opportunities. There is a possibility of a special session being scheduled, but your point at this session can't be the point of daily work. Thank you. After the break, we'll continue our work. Just to let you know that the Committee on Culture and Information will be held at 2 p.m. on the 3rd floor, and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs at 14.15 p.m. on the 3rd floor, too. I ask the members of those committees to attend the session because these committees should be established. We'll continue the session at 12.00 hours. [[After break - 12.00]] Dear Members of Parliament, because of the consultations held at a meeting attended by the motionor, or the Prime Minister, the president of the Assembly and the heads of parliament, we will postpone the session by 14.00 hours, or we will begin at 14.00 hours. Also, let me inform you that the Committee on Culture and Information will begin work, I mean the constitutional session, at 4:30 p.m., as well as the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs at 16.45 p.m. in the third floor room. There will be constitutive sessions of both committees. Thank you.
