ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10728	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 140 MPs. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if at least 126 Members are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I ask the MPs to allow the atmosphere for work and I ask the MPs of the parliamentary majority, in line with the government's suggestion, to give us the opportunity to work today. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 152 MPs are present at this point, i.e. that more than 126 MPs are present and there are working conditions, in accordance with Article 86(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Vitomir Mihajlovic. I would like to inform you that I am, on the basis of Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the meeting to be attended by the president and members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which I welcome. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 90(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts under emergency procedure. I remind you, Article 130 is Section 2. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia envisions a motion to vote on mistrust by the Government of the National Assembly at the first next session after the proposal is submitted. Therefore, the motion for a vote of no confidence to the government of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted 86 MPs, does not enter the procedure for setting the agenda for the session, provided for in Articles 90 to 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as it is considered to be included in the agenda by force of that constitutional provision. For this reason, the procedures for setting the agenda of the sitting shall only be subject to those acts which have been proposed to be considered by emergency procedure pursuant to Articles 161 and 162. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Accordingly, we move to a decision on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts by emergency procedure. A group of 21 MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia-Vojislav Kostunica's Democratic Party of Serbia-Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group suggested that, in an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Taxes, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 6 November 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 86, against 115, there was no vote of 8 out of 209 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. A group of 21 MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia's Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica, suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 November 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 86, against 115, 10 of the 211 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Against 112, 96 of the 208 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 November 2008, be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Against 112, 56 of the 168 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a law on the merits of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Against 107, it did not vote 36 out of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee of the National Assembly of Justice and Administration has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision on the termination of judicial office, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 November 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. In five, against 109, they did not vote 24, out of 138 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. The Committee of the National Assembly of Justice and Administration has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision to suspend the deputy prosecutor's office, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 November 2008. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 17, against 111, 10 of the 138 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. Since no proposal for the putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure has been accepted, I find that, pursuant to Article 130(2), Article 130(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has been adopted. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the only item of the agenda of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly: a motion to vote for mistrust with the government of the Republic of Serbia, which has submitted 86 MPs. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a PUBLIC ASSESSMENT TO THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA You have received a motion for a vote of no confidence to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by 86 MPs from members of the parliamentary groups Democratic Party of Serbia-Vojislav Kostunica, New Serbia and the Serbian Radical Party on the basis of Article 130. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The proposal was submitted to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, according to Article 204 paragraph 3 and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is 5 hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. In a proposal to vote for non-trust with the government of the Republic of Serbia, a group of 86 MPs, members of parliamentary groups Democratic Party of Serbia-Vojislav Kostunica, New Serbia and the Serbian Radical Party, it proposed that the time of debate for parliamentary groups be 10 hours. This proposal is decided by the National Assembly without a search. I am putting on the motion that the time of debate on the motion to vote for mistrust to the government of the Republic of Serbia is 10 hours. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10729	It is true that we have proposed this because of the public and because of the MPs who come into contact with our proposal by reading it, but according to the Rules of Procedure, according to Rule 94, this must be done by the president or representative of the parliamentary group before the hearing, I repeat this proposal. So I'm asking it to be a double time for this debate. Besides, I'd like to make another proposal and I think it'll be done in the best of faith. I do not think that this debate can be conducted in a quality and good way, given what is described in the proposal itself as a formal, first and basic formal basis for the initiation of this issue of mistrust to the Government, unless a written document has been delivered to the MPs of the National Assembly that would speak of those six points that have been accepted on the Security Council, which has been broken in public in all these weeks and months because all this is done, all negotiations have been done without the eyes of the public, and the National Assembly has now come into the situation for the first time to face the consequences of something that has never really been discussed. I respect the minister's presence, it is certainly necessary and important for this debate, but I think it would be good if MPs had written a document on it, so please, most rationally, it would be to set at least an hour's break after the opening of the search, so that the document would be shared, and I assume that it exists, as Boris Tadic's letter addressed on behalf of the government to Javier Solana, so that this debate could be conducted in a simpler and more elegant manner, in order for it to be rational and based on facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10730	Thank you. I again put the motion to the vote, and now, in line with Mr Aligrudic's proposal, that the time of the debate on the motion for a vote of no confidence to the government of the Republic of Serbia is 10 hours. I ask the People's Messengers to plead, only to determine the quorum first. It's clear we have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to a vote. For 159 against two, it did not vote 36 out of 197 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is 10 hours, I find that the time of debate is 16 minutes and 48 seconds; MP group For European Serbia - three hours, seven minutes and 12 seconds; MP group SRS - two hours, 16 minutes and 48 seconds; MP group G17 plus - 57 minutes and 36 seconds; MP group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 50 minutes and 24 seconds; MP group "Forward Serbia" - 50 minutes and 24 seconds; MP group SPS - JS - 36 minutes; MP group LDP - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; MP group Nova Serbia - 21 minutes and 36 seconds; Send group of minorities - 16 minutes and 48 seconds and PUPS - 12 minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. On the basis of Article 37(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that MP Dragan Markovic-Palma, deputy president, will represent the parliamentary group in the absence of the president when considering the motion to vote for mistrust with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that the SRS parliamentary group for discussion of the government's confidence has been authorised by Mr Ljubomir Kragovic. I'm opening a search. Does the proposing representative, MP Slobodan Samardzic, want to explain the proposal? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10731	The honourable MPs, the Honorable Presidency of the Assembly, respected members of the government, ministers, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Serbian Government's policy towards Kosovo and Metohija, in particular its consent to deploy the European Union's Eulex mission in the province, is an excuse, but also enough reason to hold a debate before the National Assembly with the goal of putting the government's mistrust. Other reasons and reasons contained above all in the government’s economic policy could be found for this initiative, i.e. The current results of this policy, but the government's policy towards Kosovo and Metohija, as the most important state issue, and this is a matter of preserving Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity, is a sufficient reason for this initiative. It, as you remember, was launched on November 4th this year by calling for Article 130. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the member was to be held at the first next session. I remind you that the session of November 4th was preceded by a session of the Assembly, and in the meantime, we had another session, so this second one is in order. So we're discussing the government's mistrust on the second, not the first session, as stated by Article 130. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But it's never too late to discuss this important issue, so before some important things happen that give us enough material to maybe be even more exhaustive than November 4th, let's discuss this issue. Since this initiative was launched, therefore, since 4 November, things have happened that further justify the insistence of a number of MPs to discuss this issue in the National Assembly and raise the issue of mistrust with the government. The most important events are certainly adoption in the UN Security Council of the UN Secretary-General's report on the UN mission in Kosovo and UNMIK Metohija, as well as the adoption of a presidential statement by the Security Council on the occasion. The essence of these documents is in some form of approval of the Security Council to deploy the EU Eulex Mission in Kosovo and Metohija, which is what is being done. reconfiguration of the International Community's up-to-date civilian presence in the province. Without the consent of the Serbian government, these UN Security Council decisions would not take place, as Serbia had strong guarantees from Russia that without Serbia's positive stance, Russia would not support any of its initiatives on the so-called. reconfiguration. Officials of Serbia, therefore, the president of the Republic and members of the government, agreed to deploy the EU mission as early as July this year, under three conditions, which were later added to the fourth. These conditions should have made an impression in our public about the crucial influence the government allegedly has in this process. These conditions are as follows: firstly, the EU mission should be status neutral, secondly, so that the EU mission does not implement Marty Ahtisaari's plan and thirdly to make an appropriate decision in the UN Security Council on the deployment of the mission. The additional condition, fourth, was the adoption of the so-called a six-point plan that allegedly regulates special relations between the UN and Serbia in the new phase of the International Community's operation in Kosovo and Metohija. Now that the documents are familiar, so the report and the presidential statement, we can definitely assess the situation of the wrong and the national interests of Serbia's destructive policy of the Serbian government in this case. First, let me say something about status neutrality as a condition set by the Serbian government. In his report at point 50, the UN secretary general confirmed the request by Serbia. "Euleks will fully respect Resolution 1244 and will split under authority and in the status neutral framework of the UN." This is what Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic said immediately after the Security Council meeting on November 26th: "The explicit language of the report confirms the status neutrality of Eulex's engagement, which is a guarantee that no part of his mandate can be based on the Ahtisaari plan for Kosovo's independence, which Serbia has rejected and which the UN Security Council has never approved." The question of how neutral Eulex is and how far he has nothing to do with Ahtisaari's plan will be left behind later. First, we must ask ourselves what our commitment to the status neutrality of any mission under the auspices of the UN is being conducted in Kosovo and Metohija. UN Security Council Resolution 1244 in three places calls for the preservation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the SRJ, now Serbia. In one but one preamble to this resolution, says... (President: Mr Samardzic, excuse me, for a moment, to address the MPs of the people. I would really ask you to allow the speaker to be heard. Who listens, listens, does not have to listen, is mine to say this to the MPs of the people. So, I quote this indent of Resolution that says, "Reaffirming the attachment of all Member States to sovereignty and territorial integrity of the SRJ and other countries of the region, as stated in the Helsinki document and Annex 2." It's a quote from Resolution. This just means that any international mission in Kosovo and Metohija under UN auspices must be statusally very clear and determined towards Serbia, i.e. may only be present if it confirms its sovereignty and territorial integrity. Advocating some kind of status neutrality of the new mission, in this case, Eulexa, just means giving up our country from guarantees provided by the world organisation to its sovereignty and territorial integrity, and for such a pledge by no government, nor by any state authority of Serbia, has the right to do so at any time. Let's see now how statusally neutral EULEX really is, this time in relation to Kosovo's unilateral and illegal independence. This is about another so-called. on the condition of Serbia that Eulex must not implement Marty Ahtisaari's plan. The only legal and real basis for the functioning of Eulex and its predecessors in Kosovo and Metohija are the relevant decisions of the European Council and the Council of EU Ministers. The legal basis for such engagement is neither the UN Secretary-General's report since 24 November, nor a presidential statement of 26 November, which does not mention Eulex. Long before the UN authorities adopted the above documents, the EU adopted its decisions on establishing, mandate and how to implement its mission in Kosovo and Metohija. This is a joint action since 10 April 2006, a joint action since 15 September 2006, a joint action on 18 June 2007, a joint action on 16 July 2007, a joint action on 4 February 2008, a joint action on 12 February 2008, the conclusions of the European Council of 18 February 2008. Together with all these EU decisions on Kosovo and Metohija, it is explicit or implicitly relying on a comprehensive plan to resolve Kosovo and Metohija's status, which is called the Ahtisaari Plan. Based on these numerous decisions by the European Council and the Council of EU Ministers, Eulex began to move in Kosovo and Metohija long before the UN documents were taken, but particularly intensely since the entry into service of the government of the Republic of Serbia. How much these decisions are based on Marty Ahtisaari's plan, we will illustrate only one document of which I have listed, therefore, by joint action of the EU Council of Ministers since 4 February 2008. With the decision, the EU mission has finally been named EULEX, it has received its clear mandate and rules on its work. In fact, as we will see very quickly, the mission's mandate was not given by the EU Council of Ministers' decision, but precisely by the plan Martti Ahtisaari, who, as Minister Jeremic specifically said, was rejected at the UN Security Council in July 2007. May I have your attention, since I would like to present to you the exact text of Marty Ahtisaari's plan and these decisions of the Council of Ministers, which have established the Eulex. So, in Article 1 of the Joint Action, it stands - the EU is hereby establishing the EU's rule of law mission, Eulex-Kosovo. In Article 13.1. of the plan, Marty Ahtisaari stands - the EU will set up a European Security and Defence Policy mission, a mission in the area of the rule of law. Article 2 of Article 1 of the Joint Action states: "Eulex - Kosovo will assist Kosovo institutions, judicial and executive authorities in their progress towards a sustainable and responsible environment, and further develop strengthening the multiethnic justice system, multiethnic police and customs services, ensuring the freedom of these institutions from political interference and relying on recognised international standards and best European practice. ". Article 13 of the Martti Ahtisaari's 2nd position -- the European Security and Defence Policy mission will assist Kosovo authorities in their progress towards a sustainable and responsible environment and in their further development and strengthening the independent judiciary, police and customs services, ensuring the independence of these institutions from political interference and in line with recognised international standards and best European practice. Article 2 of Article 2 of the Joint Action states: "Eulex - Kosovo will, in full co-operation with the European Commission assistance programme, fulfil its mandate through monitoring, assistance and counselling, maintaining executive responsibilities. Article 13 of Part 3 of the Martti Ahtisaari's plan states: "The European Security and Defence Policy Mission will help to implement this agreement through assistance, oversight and counselling in the area of the rule of law in general, retaining certain powers, especially in the judiciary, police and customs, in a manner and within the time limit set by the EU Council, in accordance with annexes 9 and 10 of this Agreement." Such parallel things, identical in content, are in both documents, especially in Article 3 of the joint action, which determines the tasks of Eulex, which is practically prescribed in Article 2 paragraph 3 of Article 3 of the Martti Ahtisaari plan. It may be excessive, but it is not against me to mention that Marty Ahtisaari's plan is actually a plan to implement Kosovo's supervised independence and that the role of Kosovo's supervisors in independent Kosovo has been exclusively allocated by the EU. In order to realise that role, the EU had to recognise Kosovo's independence previously, as it has done all the ways at its disposal. The third condition of the Serbian government was for the UN's SB to decide on the engagement of Eulex. We have seen from the previous that whoever hired him will follow only the legal basis of his organisation, which is the EU. This, however, has been determined that the text of this legal basis was first given in Marty Ahtisaari's plan, only then in the Council of Ministers' decisions, which are perfectly in line with this plan. First of all, it is not clear why our government sought the UN's decision on Eulex, when the same authority, SB, more than a year ago in late July 2007, rejected the engagement of the EU mission on the basis of the Martti Ahtisaari plan, rejecting the plan itself. The only good answer to this question is to point out the fact that the Serbian government has diametrically changed the current defence policy of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of Serbia, generously coming out to meet the policies of some Western forces on the kidnapping of KIM from Serbia. Finally, what is the legal basis and based on it is the UN SB guarantee for the alleged status neutrality of Eulex, if both the legal basis and the guarantee are contained in a report by the Secretary-General of the SB, and in a presidential statement in which EULEX is not mentioned in a single word. On this occasion, I must draw the attention of the MPs of the people to what they, I hope, have already noticed. Our press didn't record or translate, she didn't give a translation of that presidential statement, which has only two paragraphs and in which EULEX is not mentioned at all, and in particular there are no mention of those six points that were so many words months earlier. There are neither these documents on the Foreign Ministry website nor a presidential statement was made on the site, nor was a report by SB Secretary-General. No newspaper, no electronic media ever joked about the presidential announcement. His reading would take maybe a minute and a half, that's two paragraphs. It is truly amazing that on the basis of the legal basis of the SB, we allow one mission to replace another mission without the local public being informed of this content. All of this leads to the conclusion that all three conditions, especially so-called. The six-point agreement, hence the fourth condition, and that will be specifically discussed, only the government of Serbia's mask for domestic use which covers the right face of its policy, teaches KIM to Albanian separatists and Western forces. That's what Western politicians speak clearly when they say the same thing. There's a lot of examples like that. I'll list a few. Immediately after the European Council's conclusion of December 4th, British Prime Minister Gordon Brown said -- EU leaders today agreed to send a mission to Kosovo to support the expected declaration of independence. On the same occasion, Nikola Sarkozy, president of France, said the following -- Serbia will be able to join the EU only if it hands over war crimes suspects and respects Kosovo's independence. I will remind you of the letter from the EU Presidency, Mr Rupel, and the future chairman, Bernard Kouchner, the current chairman, from Kranj, on 31 March, where it is clearly said that if Serbia wants to go to the EU, it must develop good neighbourly relations with Kosovo. Since a presidential statement was adopted and since EULEX stationed on the basis of our government's approval in KIM, which was December 9th, there have been a clear statement by Western officials on the matter. David Miliband, the foreign minister of Great Britain, said on December 11th that the deployment of Eulex allows Kosovo to move forward on its path to EU membership. Austrian Foreign Minister Michael Spindeleger announced on December 10th that the goal of Eulexa is to establish a legal state in Kosovo, and that giving up Serbia from Kosovo is a long-term process that goes hand in hand with Serbia's EU approach. Javier Solana announced on December 9th that the issue of recognising Kosovo's independence by Serbia, as a condition for European integration, is a matter that will be discussed later, as he says -- all Western Balkan countries have a clear European perspective. A senior defence ministry official on December 9th, Christian Schmidt, said the establishment of EULEX is beginning to apply the package of international mediator Martti Ahtisaari. Also, the French EU presidency announced on December 9th that the mission is aimed at a legal state in KIM. French Foreign Minister and EU President Bernard Kouchner announced on December 8th that since more than 50 countries have recognised Kosovo as an independent state so far, the Eulex mission will certainly apply Kosovo's laws. Perhaps the most impressive statement by Daniel Fried since 5 December, which said that the Eulex mission is not status neutral. It will greatly strengthen Kosovo's territorial integrity. Kosovo institutions have shown wisdom by accepting EULEX, a smart choice and good for the indivisibility and sovereignty of Kosovo. To our public, the authorities of Serbia have presented the so-called "Secondly". A 6-point plan, as our condition, is more than met, for the Serbian government's consent to have EULEX deployed in Kosovo. There is no sign of that in the UN Secretary-General's report, and even less in the presidential statement, where such a plan is not mentioned. The UN Secretary-General's report entitled 11 - Dialogue with Belgrade, at 26-47 points, discusses six areas to pay special attention to, but this is not brought anywhere in connection with the deployment of the Eulex mission, which is dedicated to other parts of the report. The story of the fulfilled condition of our party is pure propaganda and finally the most banal deception. When it looks at what is said in the report on six areas, police, judiciary, customs policy, border management, traffic, infrastructure and Serbian cultural heritage, it is seen that only the general provisions of some foggy solutions have been given for the first three areas, while the other three areas are not said so much, only that dialogue will continue. The essence of this part of the UN Secretary-General's report is in the assistance of the UN Secretary-General for Dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina to find a common language for some of the benefits given to the Serb community as a national minority, especially in the field of police affairs, justice and customs. Therefore, the opening points of this report are not about the EU-Serbia dialogue on the arrangements of these areas, but about the need for dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina in finding a common language for some privileges of the Serb minority in an independent Kosovo system. When the text is carefully read, there are no guarantees for the Serb community that would be achieved without Pristina's consent. So here, as in the case of three original terms, we have an exchange of kim for nothing. Agreeing to station the mission, which should help develop an independent Kosovo, for a paper and empty story that the Serbian government should serve exclusively for domestic use. It's quite possible, even very likely, that so-called The six-point plan serves the Western forces to use the UN. The secretary-general and his service to introduce Serbia into the third and final stages of Kosovo's recognition as an independent state. After accepting the SAA, this is the first stage of recognition, and the Eulexa mission, the second phase, which we are currently attending, should also be moved to the opening of dialogue on good neighbourly relations with independent Kosovo, that is phase three. A discussion between Belgrade and Pristina on some benefits for the Serb minority in the six areas mentioned could be an excellent introduction to stabilising Serbia and Kosovo's relations as good neighbours. Dear MPs, members of the government, members of the presidency, and what has been said is enough to conclude that the Serbian government has left the defence policy of sovereignty, territorial integrity and constitutional order of Serbia, agreeing to a comprehensive plan of supervised independence, to be implemented by the EU with the help of its specialised mission. Working months behind closed doors with representatives of the Western forces on the formula of Serbia's own denial of Kosovo, the government did not allow a assembly debate on the issue to be opened during this long period. It did not inform the public of Serbia of its actions, talks and possible solutions. After November 26, it is clear that, given the results, she could not do so. In all this time, the Serbian government changed its policy towards KIM as an internal political issue. A network of Serbian institutions in the province is abandoned, as is the system of financing administrative and social services. Investments in economic development and KIM infrastructure are not to be spoken of. The Serbian population seems to be pushing away from itself into the arms of Albanian institutions, which only require further legitimacy of multiethnicity, in order to be recognised by an even greater number of states as an independent state. All of this is sufficient reason to vote in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for mistrust with the Serbian government. She didn't just show political inadequacy and inability to fight the most difficult state issue. More than that, it has manifested a surplus of wrong international and internal activities since the start of the mandate, which have contributed to an objective increase in Kosovo seems to gain recognition of yet another number of states, but also Serbia itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10732	Thank you, Mr. Samardzic. Before we continue to work, allow me to inform you that Mr Vlajko Senić is a representative of the G 17 Plus parliamentary group and that the session of the Legislative Committee will be held today, so 18.12, at 14 o'clock in the Blue Salon. From representatives, i.e. the president of the parliamentary groups, Mr Ljubomir Kragovic first reported for the time being. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10733	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Honored Ministers, I have the honour and pleasure to finally see the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia after seven months of trying to get in touch with us, and there have been countless demands that we sit on this subject, on the subject of KIM. I'd like to start with that letter, from that day on, when in our press on 7.8.9 and 10 pages, the title was "The Victory of Serbian Diplomacy". On that day, I asked Mr. Jeremic to explain to me what a victory that was won by diplomacy, six points that were adopted by the UN Security Council and to comment on his words? I'm going to quote them again -- "Just like most other peoples, my people went through the days of glory and through the days of tragedy. Sometimes tragedy opens up the possibility of reaching new heights," so I'd like you to explain that sentence a little bit more, Mr. Minister. What we managed to look for through the media, looking across the press, looking online, was not enough to convince the Serbian people that Serbian diplomacy was winning. The minister did not want to explain the victory, nor the MPs here, and he is bound by the law to do so, nor by representatives of the Serb people with KIM. The minister was prevented, but there's the Prime Minister and his cabinet. They didn't want to explain it either. We have one story today, and I'm gonna tell you right now that we're all cheated. You cheated on the Serbian Parliament, the Serbian government and the Serb people in KIM, Mr. Jeremic. There's no reconfiguration of UNMIK. There aren't any UNMIK members in the KIM uniform today. They walk into civilians and can only be citizens who visit monuments and visit restaurants and walk the streets of KIM. There will be only one office left in Pristina, and that's all. On the ninth morning, everyone was cleared, uniform and weapons had to lay down and leave the Eulex mission. You have convinced us for days that it will be a reconfiguration, that a mission will come to strengthen the conditions, because with UNMIK no one was satisfied, but you have very, very deceived us. You're saying that Marty Ahtisaari's plan will not be implemented, that he may not maybe not be Marty Ahtisaari, but he will certainly be Ahtisaari Marty. Just change his name and last name, play words, and that's what you're trying to deceive the Serbian people and the Serbian state. You asked and you managed to make a decision at the Security Council, and then the people asked why Russia, why China voted for that decision. Normally, she voted if the Serbian foreign minister asks to vote. Can Russia and China be against what Serbia wants? If Serbia wants to kill itself and give up its territory, acts of Kosovo, and leave the Serb people to the mercy and mercy of the Shiptar Separatists and terrorists, can someone else prevent it? He can't. You say they have accepted some new six points, which allegedly did not want to accept the Interim Institutions and the Government of Kosovo. We cannot find out which six dots are, what they mean, and what is most important, which is who will carry them out, how they are implemented, and by what laws the six dots will be applied. If we follow what you gentlemen say and what the EU ministers say, it is the diametric opposite. You say -- there's no talking about Kosovo's independence, we'll never accept Kosovo's independence, if there's a price for Serbia's entry into the EU, we'll give up that path. However, if we hear any of the Americans, for example from US Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Fried, through all the ministers in Europe, they speak quite the opposite of you. Who were you talking to, Mr. Minister? If they have one attitude and you have other attitudes, they say they've won, you say you've won. Someone had to lose there, and lost the state of Serbia and lost the Serb people to KIM, lost 250,000 Serbs, who wanted to return, because he remained property to KIM, and as of this day, the recognition of the Eulex mission will become harder and harder for him to exercise those rights. Will something, you say, status neutral, bind anyone on that mission? We also remember the mission that used to be Unmika, so they wouldn't honor it. We are what Serbia's Radicals needed to do, and that is to fight to strictly respect Resolution 1244, to seek the reconfiguration of the Unmika mission, not by kicking it out of the KIM territory and bringing representatives of the EU, but by completing the Unmika mission up to 1,000 police officers and soldiers from the Republic of Serbia. Then you, sir, would have won a diplomatic victory if you had managed to do so, not by replacing one another, and their task and obligation is, most of all, the most devastating, which is Marty Ahtisaari's plan. To document this, not to speak in vain, I will read to you – the Eulex software declaration, a letter that arrived in Kosovo Mitrovica. He says software activities, indicators and reports. When the Eulex staff begin their work in the Republic of Kosovo, it is important that, and not to read any further, Mr. Minister, here I will provide you with a look. You know it well, and you don't want to tell us. Maybe you had to do it, but why didn't you inform us 130,000 Serbs after so many interventions and efforts, why didn't you inform this National Assembly? You, Mr. Minister, have violated the preamble to the Constitution, Article 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 12 and Article 127. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You have trampled all the resolutions we have adopted in this assembly. You respect no one, respect Javier Solana's wishes, Boris Tadic and individual EU officials. You hug them, you kiss them, and you bring devastating results here. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that at the end of this debate, when we vote, we will vote against the Government of the Republic of Serbia because of this policy, because the policy led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia can be managed by anyone. It's a policy of indulgence, a policy of courtship, a policy of service. You should know that in fact the Serbian people are not to be a servant, he does not want to be a servant, he wants to be free. What the Serbian people held out for nine years on KIM, all the googogue, you ran over once with the Eulex mission. You've transferred the ball from the field of the UN mission to the field of the EU mission. Let me remind you, in the UN membership, Mr Minister, there are more than 150 countries that have not accepted and have not recognised Kosovo's independence. There are only four countries left in the EU, and the four countries do not have the power to impose something, which could be imposed in the UN Security Council or at the UN Assembly. You've earned the right to go recognising independence right into the UN. Would you do it right in Brussels? You'd never make it. So why did you let the KIM problem move from the UN field to the Council of Europe? Here is a sentence of the Council of Ministers of Europe – for the EU, Kosovo is an independent state. That's what you have in all the newspapers, that's not what I invented, that's the Council of Ministers, their text, their report, on the website you can read, in our daily press, "Politice", "Blica", wherever you want. Furthermore, EU High Representative, Mr Solana, what kind of reports does he give, sir? All the opposite of what you say. Then you need to tell us if you've been there, courting that EU, letting them do whatever they want with one territory, sacred territory, KIM territory. Let me remind you, to refresh your memory, there is also a Serbian spirituality in that territory, and Serbian statehood, if we lose it, we lose our past, and without the past, Mr. Minister, we have no future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10734	Thank you, Mr. Kragovic. Mr Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS parliamentary group, answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10735	Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, the government's relationship with KIM to the government of the Republic of Serbia would in itself be sufficient to discuss mistrust with this government. He's not the only reason, of course. There are many other reasons, but there can always be started for this reason, that easily, starting with it, these other reasons can be explained. What the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done, or Boris Tadic, is not known, because Boris Tadic, the president of the state, often takes the role of the government of the Republic of Serbia's spokesman and often presents himself outside as the commander of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is what all citizens in the country see, this one confusion of functions and roles that are currently on the scene will not stop until the end of this government's mandate, until the end of the call of this National Assembly, and so it will remain. So, the command stick for running the wrong state policy of this government is located in a building across from us, not in Germany. Because those who sit in Germany, of course there are other buildings, but Nemanja is the center of the gathering, there is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and some other ministers, in fact, a conglomerate of nothing. What is the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards KIM? All contrary to what the state policy was established by May of this year. The adoption of Eulexa, the idea of EULEX being installed in Serbia's territory stemming from government in the country and making this government a disgraceful government, and extremely incompetent because EULEX here appears to be an element for a certain kind of trade. It was necessary to accept the Eulex mission to come to KIM territory, to essentially implement Ahtisaari's plan, because that is the only reason why the mission was ever made by the European Council and the Council of Ministers. The reason for the mission's existence is in the implementation of the Anexa 10 Ahtisaari plan. The idea of conditioning those who decide to reconfigure the UN mission on Serbia's territory, I have no idea, the impartiality of the mission, the idea of introducing the word "neutrality", that offends and hurts more than anything else. How can the government of a country seek an international community, those with whom it negotiates issues of its own territory neutrality in relation to its own territory? That's what we talked about before. Guys, that's a shame. There is no single argument, a mission that stems from Resolution 1244 SB, which, I hope, still stands, cannot be statusally neutral. The mission must be clearly defined to protect the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, as it writes there. Those EU member states that recognised KIM's independence, all arguments, from Miliband to other EU foreign ministers, consisted of declaring Albanians independence in KIM in accordance with Resolution 1244. It's enough to read what they're saying. Then they said they recognized that independence in accordance with Resolution 1244. Who do we look up to and how do we conduct politics? The best proof that this is not good, or the reason why this is not good is because of the lack of a single attitude, a single state policy. Only a single state policy could make a difference in relationships. He's not guaranteed, because we've been in a difficult situation, but what you've done is guaranteed complete failure. If you thought you'd cheat on the EU by entering, allegedly, adequately and condescendingly into the process of European integration that means the end, which you'll all see, disowning part of the country's territory, you've been wronged because they don't think of biting the alleged hook that you've thrown at them, if it was your idea. I'm interpreting you extremely benevolently, interpreting that you wanted right and did wrong. I'm not going to use the second term here. If, however, it was trade, if you wanted to say that 15% of Serbia's territory is not important, and that 85% of Serbia's territory and those living in that part of Serbia's territory are given an improvement, which I think is extremely immoral, but let's also discuss that immoral category, let's see what that trade is about. Do you know what the result of that store of yours is so far? I'm not talking to you, you know, but to citizens who watch this: zero. You didn't get anything at the store for that. And in the part where you should have been at least a little able to protect the day-to-day interests of Serbian citizens, you prove to be the most incompetent government of the Republic of Serbia ever. You were unable to meet the challenges of something knocking on the door of Europe until a month ago, and it was clear to everyone that it would knock on the door of the Balkans, including Serbia, is the global economic and financial global crisis. You joked at the expense of opposition MPs, specifically the DSS, when we proposed measures to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, including laws that should prevent negative effects and you told us to spread panic. That's what you've been doing. During that time, Prime Minister Cvetkovic, in a conversation we held with him, told us that the issue of economic policy is a matter of relative secrecy until the adoption of the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's what a man told us in the eyes. What was not a secret, with which you were completely free and clear to the citizens of Serbia, were the statements of the type: let's say, Minister Milosavljevic, that the most important thing is to protect ourselves from the insinuation of the global financial economic crisis to stop buying white technique. My men, my stove in the house is 15 years old and already two rings have stopped working. What do you suggest? Then, we have Mr. Dulic's proposal to close the windows, turn off the lights, cover the sherps with lids, because that's how we're going to contribute to the total savings, and that's how we're going to solve all our problems. We have a proposal from the Ministry of Labour and Employment to import women. That's what you've all heard. It's the same brilliant suggestion. We have a proposal from Minister Ljajic, publicly said, although he later pretended to have something else to say, to send labour inspections to all those companies that fire employees. Be careful what message it is for people who should be bearers of budget financing through taxes paid to the Republic of Serbia, to be bearers of economic growth in Serbia tomorrow. It is not their relationship with employees of the category that is related to employers, but to the overall economic climate, for which the Government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible. You should be ashamed of that. You are not men capable of rule. What kind of trade did you want to do, what kind of bill did you make in all of this, when you negotiated with anyone in the EU and the U.S. this dickhouse with Eulex, this essential denial of part of the territory? What was what you were promised? We will never know that, but we will remember easily what you promised the citizens of Serbia. You told them to follow us to build a network of highways that employs 50,000 people. You said there would be a gas deal with Russia, you're making a papasia within the government of the Republic of Serbia, which almost didn't fall these days, not because we started the story of government mistrust, but because someone came up with a genius joke, probably by being encouraged by someone from abroad, to harass the other Contracting Party - Russia, in this case, which is the contracting party with the state of Serbia in one big agreement, referring the whole story to the relationship between the company and the clean trade relationship. That's what's at work here. Pensions, social responsibility, that's what Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic was talking about in his exposé. Where is social responsibility, where is the even distribution of social responsibility issues? He only negotiates with one social group, which unfortunately is a social group with us, pensioners, and not with pensioners and their representatives, but with a political party that has imagined to represent pensioners in Serbia, who are all former directors of various enterprises and, worst of all, are related to the same pension fund that has been broken down for years. They agreed to increase pensions, and then it cannot be fulfilled, and then it is milked and lied to by the IMF, and then the budget is being made as a measure of economic policy, and it turns out that the budget, which we will talk about in the coming days, will be the measure of economic breakdown in Serbia. What you suggested there can't stand any states, and everything will fall on the burden of Serbian citizens. If taken from one side, it must be given to another side. If it's given to someone else, obviously someone's gonna be out of money. It's not a bottomless bag. Your poor economic policy will not be burdened by the prime minister of Hungary, Austria, Italy, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, but will be borne by the citizens of Serbia, and these countries I have listed to you are about the countries with which we have the best foreign trade co-operation recorded so far. They're all in trouble, and we're gonna be in trouble because we don't know how to put ourselves in this situation. Thank you, there will be an opportunity for me to talk about this in my next report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10736	Thank you, Mr. Aligrudic. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group is not invited to join a motion to vote for no confidence in the government of the Republic of Serbia. If we were invited, if we had been consulted, we would certainly have had the effect of supplementing the request, of being complex, of not being bound by just one point of life in Serbia. Surely life would not have taken that point as a topic, as a focus, to impose many other topics. Surely we would not have stopped at the time in which we applied, so that after a month and a half we would still remain for only one reason why the Serbian government should leave. We are not invited, but we will vote for a vote of no confidence to the government of the Republic of Serbia. There's a lot of reasons for that. The government itself provides reasons. The reasons are justified by the situation in Serbia, and I would say in the government itself. Unfortunately, in the most difficult time that Serbia has welcomed or yet to welcome, we have one of the worst governments, a government composed of additions to 126, a government that is not linked to either concept, nor ideological, nor targets, nor the past, nor the future. The government that looks to me, don't mind me, my origin is partly and peasant, to the peasants who impose two oxen, educated to be left, the other right, and then he's wrong, and the one on the right side, left to the right, not to catch the ox, but to cross them. My peasants know what it means. That's how you ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers drag everyone to your side, and in Serbia from day to day worse and worse. Kosovo and Metohija. You didn't create that problem. The government before you, and the government before her, and she before her, and she before all the governments had a problem with Kosovo and Metohija and none had solved it well, none had completely solved it. Now the question is, how do you move on? Do we have enough honesty to say that we can only do what is objectively possible? Mission Eulex is not a good idea. The idea of the EU, the idea of most of the world's organisation, but it's not a good idea for Serbia. I wish you were right when you claim that this mission will respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. I would hate to be right to doubt it and to think that this Eulexa mission will slowly surround Kosovo and Metohija, completely separate it from Serbia and one day put us before the final act, that we cannot even think about Kosovo and Metohija as the territory of Serbia. So whoever calls for the president's statement to be issued and with the consent of the Russian Federation and China, has to tell us here to take full responsibility for the behaviour of China and the Russian Federation, as these two states have said, we will support everything Serbia is looking for. Serbia has been looking for Eulexe placed under these conditions, Russia and China have made it possible. If it turns out to be a bad step, it's not a bad step for our protectors, it's our bad step, and I hope we don't wait for the end, we're going to act in good time as a state and solve that mystery, or don't let ourselves one day find ourselves in a situation where there's nothing more to be done. The Russian Federation. Part of the government doesn't want us to cooperate with the Russian Federation. Part of the government does not want to allow Serbia to survive. Part of the government does not want to allow Serbia to develop. Part of the government does not want to respect the agreements in which it has signed itself, in which the president of the Russian Federation participated. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, do not allow yourself to play with the presence of the president of the Russian Federation to sign a gas-naphtha agreement. It can't be trampled. If you had signed such an agreement in the presence of an American president, I would have told you, you must not step on it. With the authority of these people, with the ability of these people, with the willingness of those countries, you don't play. Make sure you create at least 100 million Serbs, so we can compete evenly with those who wish us well, and we play them. So I demand that the Government of the Republic of Serbia immediately complete all arrangements with the Russian Federation or that those who prevent it come out of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I don't expect the G17 plus to come out, they start tearing down the government somewhere, and by then they like the situation they're in. When the government is brought down, they will find a list with the help of parliament and will find a party with the help of half the budget to take over and spend it again. The EU. We must not buy EU membership by handing over territory. The government of the Republic of Serbia must commit to that. I want Serbia to be in the EU, but Serbia must not hand over Kosovo and Metohija as a condition for EU accession. Whoever runs Serbia like that has our support. If more than half of Serbia turns against the current government, let those who lead Serbia think otherwise about what it looks like. It is not only the EU's condition to arrest war crimes indictees before the UN tribunal. It's a condition that you most prefer, with the highest will, to perform. If that were the only condition, you have already extradited so many Serbs to be one of the EU's leading members. There are other conditions that no Serbian government has met since 5 October, and these are about reforms in Serbia, police reform, judicial reform, state administration reforms, and that's where you've failed most. I don't want to speak to individual ministers, this is where the government collapses, not some ministers, but our police have been locked up in patterns they've been running for years. Our police have allowed the U.S. embassy to be set on fire, our police have killed... I ask those who can only work part of the body at the same time, not to use the voice, they'll forget to beat. So our police killed a peaceful SRS protester, Ranko Panic, and none of you feel a single shred of moral responsibility. Look how Greece shakes. The interior minister resigned. The police killed the child. You because the Serbian people are different from others and suffers more than others, you think that punishment will not catch up with you. When the people make their bills, they will first issue an account for the murder of Ranko Panic. You don't know who killed him or who ordered him, you don't know who beat up the MPs, who threw tear gas at the peaceful participants in advance of the reported and approved protests. You don't know anything about the police of the Republic of Serbia. Health care. I'm waiting for the Minister of Health to resign, since he's in charge of the first cowardice when the government falls. What's Mr. Health Minister doing? They'll explain it to our MPs. Minister, you live in Cardell's time. There are no privates for you. For you, there is no citizen of Serbia who has first to be treated wherever he wants to be. There is no doctor for you who has the right to treat wherever he wants. You even singled out doctors to university professors and other doctors. In your opinion, only a university professor can work beyond his usual practices, other doctors, specialists, masters, doctors, they have no right. According to you, a private medical school should be shut down because you want it, not because maybe someone estimates it doesn't meet the conditions. Why are you getting involved in this? Why don't you let the state develop? Why don't you let the citizen "nn" take out his tooth wherever he wants, operate on his hip wherever he wants, and have the social security company pay for the price list. Is this a state institution, is it private, what are you mixed up in? So you can conduct, command, protect lobbys, especially these drug lobbys. There are other people who will talk to you about it. Where's that Secretary of Defense? You set up a 300m-euro deal with Iraq. The president of Serbia said in the campaign that they had finally hired the Purpose Industry. You gave the job 90m euros to an Israeli firm. Bring in the equipment produced by Dragic in Serbia, pack it in Sapac for what is now under arrest and represent it as a Serbian product. Is that how you protect Serbia? Are you the Government of Serbia or the Government of Israel, or the Government of another country? Let's not talk about the satellite deal. I am also very interested in the involvement of Boris Tadic in the agreement on satellite use. There's another thing, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, hypothetically, I'm looking at those who dared to present themselves as the only opposition. There are only 80 and some signatures in that request, as if the opposition had no 100 and some MPs in this assembly. I'm thinking, if this government fell, if it replaced the government that was before it, and what would change better in Serbia? During this speech, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10738	Thank you. The word is from Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the Liberal Democratic Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10739	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, the distinguished members of Mr. Cvetkovic's cabinet, this debate has been so pointless since its beginning that the only real answer to this waste of time was in fact to accept our suggestion about the immediate vote on the law, which, in some ways, would have been a diminished incompetence of the government. This would facilitate the difficult position in which our citizens are presently afraid they will not be able to leave the country, expecting all of us to make them happy by extending the period of use of the passports of the previous state, which may be one of the clearest images of the general incompetence and impotence resulting from a format that is much wider than the Government of Mr Cvetkovic himself. This does not in itself mean that we do not need a serious debate on the work of the government, nor in any way do I want to reduce the right of the promoter to, in accordance with the interests of the citizens who represent, launch the debate in this particular way. What is important for the LDP is in fact this public interest which, on the one hand, endangers its incompetent policy by the ruling majority and, on the other hand, fails to protect the opposition in the Assembly. In such a situation, the only answer to what is important is what guarantees people at this time, whose future we should make sure that we are able to do so. Mr. Cvetkovic, we didn't vote for your government when it was formed. I don't want to spend too much time on the explanation of one of those decisions. Then we said that we would support every European effort of your government, and these European efforts are not exclusively related to the most unsuccessful work your government has done, to the job of ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but also to the creation of an ambience in which some new values will arise, which will then enable our society to become an equal member of the community of modern European peoples and states. We, although we did not support you in forming a cabinet, have often protected your government here in parliament more than those who voted for it at the time. What, in our opinion, is the greatest threat to the government and therefore to the citizens of this country? It's the incompetence of your cabinet, incompetence and impotence. For a year, we have been criticizing an energy agreement with the Russian Federation. Thousands of people demonstrated before the government on May 9th this year, trying to explain how what you're doing was built on a bad foundation. In September, we discussed the agreement here for three days, offering a new argument in favour of our opposition. But no one more effectively challenged that agreement than your vice president. He was more effective in criticising the agreement than we were, and it is natural since Mr Dinkic was a negotiator. He knew what we could only sense. No one has stopped Serbia more effectively in the process of European integration to your Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Djelic. He was far more effective in this than those who opposed the ideas of the European Union here in the parliamentary benches. When we talk about your government's mandate, then we cannot forget the optimism and hope created in Serbia five years after 12 March 2003. I said at the consultations that we first entered the Government of the Republic of Serbia after 2003 and that, among other things, was the consequence of our belief that we could find partners in this government for the jobs we wanted to do. But out of that optimism and this positive energy, which was much more a product and the consequence of our society's desire to change, than the ability of the ruling coalition to disrupt these changes today has nothing left. Time is tumor, and the atmosphere in society is even worse. If we live in the fall, our society is already in the deep winter stage. That's what to think about. We need a government that will have the courage to tell Serbia the truth, a government that will carry out a 20-year-old trench society, a government that will have the ability to point to what we have in common, in addition to the differences that are so obvious. Instead, your government managed to divide itself. How long will it take? It's certainly not the day you're at risk today, but I remind you of an illusion whose hostage you are. This congregation is so far from life that most of you have in it in no way should make you safe. The government will last as long as it is able to solve society's problems. To what extent did she solve them over the past few months? Very little and mostly inefficient. A single process - the process of European integration - is crucial to us. The work also gives rise to any other circumstances that, in our opinion, can contribute to the fundamental transformation of the country. But in that business, we're unsuccessful. We cannot be called exclusively to the Netherlands, as an obstacle to the European integration process. The Netherlands, and in particular Belgium, are an obstacle to ratification of the Trade Agreement and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. But what about all the European values your government is obliged to create here in the country and not create them in any way? What about the free market, the institution affirmation? What about building a civil society? It is a long list of your mistakes, but what is needed today in Serbia is not a reminder of such a thing, but a candidate model that will allow these mistakes to no longer be repeated. As a party, we have proposed to everyone else an agreement for the future. In that agreement, of course, there is room for your government, too, Mr. Cvetkovic, but you keep your mouth shut about it. In addition to those scandalous statements from your ministers, that silence is even more difficult. Your government is incapable of listening. A government that's not ready to hear is not a good government. Mr. Cvetkovic, you are the Prime Minister who has managed to compromise our country further, to disrupt relations with neighbours, to deepen the dilemmas that exist in society regarding the justification of our European orientation. Mr. Cvetkovic, your government doesn't even understand the European definition it allegedly represents. Whenever you talk about Europe, you put a sign of equality between Europe and Russia and say that our political commitment is to be east in the West and west in the East. I must remind you that, in the process of European integration and EU accession, we are transferring part of our sovereignty to the EU and thus becoming EU citizens. As it is not natural to say today that you regret that Serbia is not Russian Governor, it is equally wrong to say that you care equally about Europe and Russia. You compromised us on one side and on the other. How many hundreds of privatisations you have made at the Privatisation Agency and find among them one that can be compared to the privatisation of NIS. How did the government react to the decision of the head of the negotiating team to leave the negotiations? How did the government react to all the warnings we gave her well - meaning, taking care of the public interest and pointing to the problems that exist in this business? You continue to negotiate despite the fact that there is an initiative before the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the law voted on by the government's initiative three months ago. Let's go back to what's only important for this country, and that's a kind of feeling that needs to end this debate. It will end with not your victory because those who want your shift are in the minority, it will end up putting a sign of equality between the infirmities of those who would replace you and the infirmities of you who are in power to do anything with those positions of authority. So we think that you were the ones who had to talk here first and take this chance not as an opportunity to convince the DSS of the justification of its initiative, you had to take this chance to convince the citizens to know what your government should do. We need a strong government, not the largest government in the region. We have to admit that you have succeeded incredibly from the most problematic partner, I don't mean anything by it all, but to make the SPS the most stable partner, the problem was that at one point they were able to do both with one and the other, and that you were from the most stable partner, the partner who won 102 mandates together, managed to make the biggest problem in the coalition, which is Mr Dinkic. Behind all that is DS, which has almost 40% support in society, but with that support it does nothing. So far from reality that today he doesn't know what to do with the laws we have to vote on, because for the first law on the agenda there are no 126 MPs, and if there's no law on the territorial organisation of courts, then there's no voting on any other law, so we're going to get out of this problem by breaking the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, and when it's broken by the ruling coalition, then everyone else has the right to break it. When your government doesn't respect the law and doesn't provide us with a budget on time, then everyone else has the right to break a law that he considers appropriate to break. It's called chaos in this country, and when we look at what's happening around us, then we have to think in time about the consequences of this chaos. When we see what's going on in Athens, then I ask you a question with which right we count on someone to have an understanding for the government tomorrow that answers every scandal with surprise and emphasis on their own ignorance. None of you know how this country lost 25% of its ownership in Jugorosgas. Nobody knows that. When we offered you the answers to those questions, you were not ready to accept them. None of you know how to form salaries in boards and public enterprises, but you know that in response you offer a catch. None of you know how it is possible for this country's public enterprise, the country's institutions, the official messenger, to forget Zoran Djindjic. They wouldn't understand if that government did it after 2003, but if it did happen in 2008, it's a shame. Do not keep quiet about it, but say that you have replaced both the director and the board of directors, every man who sits there receiving a salary to do his job, not to keep his mouth shut and offer ex post explanations, that after several days of analysis and review, there has been a conclusion that the project needs to be stopped, but not only because there is no room for Zoran Djindjic in modern Serbian history. The history of Zoran Djindjic does not depend on the book "The Official Messenger", be sure of something like that. You know that very well. I don't think it's your fault and you want to do something like that, but do something, you're the Prime Minister. I want to tell you that we cannot support the DSS and SRS initiative, and then the SNS, which joined this initiative, not because we have understanding of the results of your policy but because we think we need both sides of this parliament to bring the country out of the problems we are facing. Mr Nikolic spoke of how we would have the right to say no to Russia that we are 100 million, and we think we would have the right to say no to someone who threatens the interests of this country, regardless of whether it sits in Washington or Moscow, provided we are able to say together what is the interest of this country. Is it an interest in building a pipeline? Yes, it is. Is it of interest to connect and build pipelines and privatise NIS? Yeah. Is it the interest of privatization of NIS and the belief that tomorrow the Russians will be as naive as we are today? No, it's just one example. Can we go to Europe with 130 MPs? We can't. Can we go to Europe on one side of the street, and half of Serbia will remain on the other side? No, I don't. How are we going to go to this Europe? By bringing life back here first to those European values that we're talking about, which are mostly in these pointless and miserable plans of your government. Mr. Djelic, hello, Bozo. Of the 50 laws you announced as Deputy Prime Minister in charge of European integration in July, seven were adopted, 15 proposals were adopted at the government, two proposals are in the pre-admission phase, 13 proposals are in the final phase of drafting, 12 proposals are in the initial stage of preparation. Only seven laws went through parliament here. That's not the opposition's responsibility. That's what you're responsible for, Mr. Djelic. Take responsibility. I don't know if you tried to deceive us or if it was the expression of a general negligence. You have forwarded here to parliament a summary of the European Commission report, which you have previously forwarded to the members of the government, in which problems in the European integration process are mainly accused of the Assembly, which is not true, as well as everything that is said every day about the Serbian Assembly. Tell me how you think you're taking the country to Europe without the Assembly, and it's practically gone, because where we're sitting today is not the Assembly. The congregation must have the ability to understand the general interest of the country. Fourteen laws you proposed to Parliament by emergency procedure, we received them on the day the session began. That's why that session can't end. You want to reform the judiciary, you didn't ask the judiciary for something like that. How will your parliamentary majority vote for laws abolishing courts? Have you ever talked to these people? Out of loyalty and party loyalty, they will raise their hands, but these laws will not affirm in the midst from which they come as MPs. Without life, these laws have no future. We once did it together in 2001, the topic was the Labour Act, so we accepted the DSS condition and voted on a set of laws reforming the judiciary, and in return we entered into a debate on the Labour Act. Mr. Ljajic, that's when big divisions happened here in parliament on the subject of the Labour Act, the law you've gallantly amended. That's when the Democratic Opposition of Serbia broke down because of the General collective agreement, and you signed it. When we talk to the Prime Minister and some other people, then we mention the last point of that agreement he's standing in -- it'll be applied if there's money. Don't ignore the fact that we've been living in a country that's been suffering for 20 years and that people here no longer have the strength to survive. We will never point our finger at you as guilty of the chaos in which the country is located, but you have to understand the fact that we can't wait forever to take responsibility and start all together to do your job. What happened to us last week through the government's Vice President and Minister of Energy dialogue is definitely not a government job. That's when we saw that there were actually two governments. You were obliged, Mr. Cvetkovic, to offer a solution, not to appoint the foreign minister's chief of staff, Mr. Jeremic, you better not do that job, to appoint him head of the negotiating team. That's what you presented as a political project, not as an economic project, as defined at the outset. It's impossible to survive in the positions you've dug in, Mr. Cvetkovic. Everyone in this country, in fact, understands you in some way, because of the fact that there is a person behind you who is responsible for the situation in the country, responsible for being held responsible, I mean the function of the President of the Republic, and responsible for choosing the model that this country will change. The President of the Republic is both the prime minister and the minister, and the class elder of each of you from the ministers, he will evaluate you, not the Assembly, the president is also the negotiator on the concession, the president is also the vice president of the Energy Agreement. And all of this could be understandable on condition that there's no one who wants to help the president. I think you're prepared for something like that, and since you're not in a position to do it, then you're not necessarily responsible for what's going on in the country. We all know, Mr. Jeremiah, that you're actually juggling with our foreign policy. When Karadzic is arrested, you remind Serbia of the Storm. When an agreement is being made with the UN on the arrival of EULEX in Kosovo, you remember Jasenovac. Why did you drag Serbia into the process in which we were sentenced to defeat? To share it with Croatia. We didn't need the countersuit, because it was clear that the Croatian genocide suit was completely unfounded, clearly after the verdict given to this country in 2007, I think in February. All these judgments... (President: Time, Mr. Jovanovic. You've extended to ten o'clock, ma'am. (President: The time of debate has doubled. Only then define the rules, since the rule has always been that time extends for everyone, so we also spoke during the debate on the government. (President: your proposal was the time of debate. ) You know all of this more or less anyway. It would be much more important, Madam President, if, as president of the Assembly, you would do something to restore dignity to the Assembly. I don't think you personally at the Assembly put him at risk, because he wasn't there when you came to that function, but build him. Build it with your ruling coalition and opposition that understands why such a thing is important. We will not support the motion to vote on the mistrust of Mr Cvetkovic's government, because it would be further pushing Serbia into problems that Serbia can come out of only by being able to define the minimum of common interests that we are ready to protect, the interests of Serbs living in Kosovo and the interests of Serbs living in Croatia, but first and foremost, the interests of people living in this country and who are hostages of the general incompetence which has made Serbia the most unfortunate European society that has with its misfortunes and all around them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10740	Thank you. Dignity and dignity will be built together by MPs and me. Mr. Velimir Ilic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10741	Madam President, honourable MPs, at the beginning of my presentation, I'd like to congratulate today 600 years of the city of Chačka, it's a great jubilee, and I'm sorry I'm not down there, I'm sorry that many of you aren't in Chačka, because we were and we agreed to be down here today. Here, we have an important topic today that we need to discuss, which is a mistrust to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Many wonder why we're discussing this now. Here, as you can see, now 12, some minutes to 12, and this is a minute to 12, to discuss the government before the end of the year, to make sense, to see what can be done, what is wrong, and of course to make a certain decision at the end. The government came simply in the May 11th elections with big promises made to Serbian citizens. However, these great promises were only deceptions and none of the promises so far have been fulfilled. It's better to start this issue sooner than to wait, so when it's late, then more importantly something won't be able to be done. A lot of people wonder why they don't trust the government. First, I would like to point out that the Government of the Republic of Serbia violates the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, violates parliamentary decisions, violates two resolutions made in this Parliament and violates a series of decisions made by this Parliament. We want to restore dignity to the Serbian Parliament as an institution and that Serbian Parliament decisions cannot just be violated. Unfortunately, the president of the state also violates the constitution and violates a series of decisions made in this House. We would now like to ask the Prime Minister one question: Who is actually the prime minister of this government? Is the cabinet of the president of Serbia, is someone else sitting in government and very often speaking and giving some information before the prime minister or is it the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia? Therefore, when we observe the Government of the Republic of Serbia from parliament, we do not understand anything. When ministers come to parliament, honoring individuals who behave quite politely, we do not know if they are from the same government or whether they are from two different states. Their conflicts have become more simply unbearable. We have people sitting in government who have been in conflict for years and can't function. This government is an interesting group that has gathered together to do some work for its parties, where the agreements that have been reached and the contracts in this parliament are being violated. We ask -- how could the concession that went through this parliament, which was passed, be said to be saying that a concession agreement was being broken through a council, and today the prime minister explains that the contract has not yet come into force. Therefore, we are not clear to the role of Minister Dinkic, who was the first to run out to take a must for Serbian citizens that the Horgos-Požega highway will not work and that it will work in some other way, budget funds and from the NIP, in part, credit lines. When we get the budget, those funds are gone, they're not in the NIP, they're not in the budget, and we don't know where they are. How is it possible that the gas deal, which passes here with 214 votes "yes", where the G 17 party plus unanimously supports it, is starting to collapse the next day from their boss? Who's the commanding officer to tear down the gas deal, and why is it collapsing? Whether this assembly has been humiliated, underestimated, humiliated, when anyone appointed by parliament comes out, for God's sake - the law is broken. Everyone breaks the law, the law is passed and must be respected. Additional guarantees are required. Is there more guarantees than a ratified contract in this House and an interstate agreement? It is the highest form of guarantee that exists and it is translated into law. The law is a guarantee that it will be done and it is true that they have three parts and all three will be done because it is signed. And not now -- we rip up a piece that suits us and we get into the story and we deceive the citizens of Serbia. Who is it that goes out in public and takes the flyer again, the same man, that a unilateral agreement will be applied, and he is brought here not unilaterally, but that they will be applied from each other? How can a unilateral agreement be applied that would be the tomb of the Serbian economy? How can customs cuts, budget cuts and make up for the greater burdens of those who do something in Serbia, taxpayers and citizens of Serbia? It can't be tolerated anymore, and that's why we can't tolerate a government acting like this. The government must understand that it has been elected by parliament and what has been brought into parliament must be respected. The constitution may not be good, but change procedures are known. The Constitution and two congregation resolutions cannot be broken by the introduction of Eulex. I understand that it is difficult for you, if you were pressed, but it had to go through parliament, you would understand MPs if you were to argue here, and you could not bypass us, that we are asking our signatures to be put on the agenda, and you say, well, that's not so important for Serbia, it's important that they go through another assembly, etc. Please, these are things that can't be tolerated by any government, not in banana states, let alone here, I consider Serbia a serious state in our Serbia. Therefore, you must make sure, gentlemen of the government, how you behave, what decisions you make, and don't sell us any more fog, tell empty stories, and completely separate yourself through your cabinets and do the opposite things that are agreed here. We said -- difficult situation, difficult financial situation. All right. The administration is shrinking, the cheaper state. How can individual ministries build offices across all municipalities on the cost of budgets, develop their own party infrastructure? Is it a cheap state that one Old Mountain Public Enterprise with two employees makes a loss of 80 million in a year? Who's gonna cover the loss? Such are thousands of small, small enterprises, which someone has opened throughout Serbia to hire their party sympathisers. How is it possible in one serious state that the president of the state will come out and say, "I'll change the ministers, I'll listen to the ministers, I'll call the ministers." What does that look like? Are we a kingdom, a kingdom or a republic? Who's the boss here in Serbia? We may have a boss on the outside, I don't know. Who have we chosen to lead this country and whose authority are they? These are the questions you gentlemen must answer here. It is a shame to go out at the end of the year and say -- the government's biggest success is the arrest of Radovan Karadzic. What kind of government is it if its greatest success is that a Serb went to The Hague and is proud of it? Secondly, you have made one great success, gentlemen of the government, in the territory of our country, of your country, to make a foreign state and to legalize it through Eulex. It's a big thing you've done. Everyone in Europe will admire that, and no one in the world would do that, to build and slowly legalize a foreign country on their own country's territory. It's your success and you're proud of it. I would suggest that you be ashamed of it, because it will be, for generations to come, a shame and a great shame. You were talking about the budget. You blame us here, who sit all day, until midnight, whenever we're required, that the budget can't be adopted because of us, we're obstructing. Well, it's always night here, because this is the basement. I expected you to arrange for us to move, gentlemen from the ruling coalition, to a parliament that deserves Serbia. But keep us in this basement here for years, besides Parliament being empty, and here we no longer know when it is day or night. You see, it's always light, it's always dark and it's a bad sign for Serbia, when there's darkness in parliament. So the budget came to us the other day from 900 pages and you couldn't make a deal. Why? What you're sitting in the government, we don't know whose interest it is, you don't have any common opinion of anything. One comes out of the coalition and says -- there's a mob, we're going to fix the mafia, the biggest in Serbia's history, I'm going to expose everything, and tomorrow it's coming out and it's -- it's okay, it's okay. What's this about? When two ministers came on two committees that worked together, it was a shame to listen and watch, and we were totally confused. You said -- you'll take care of the Serbian economy, the importers rule here. Serbia, gentlemen of the government, has become an avalanche, as our people say. He can come here whoever he wants, do whatever he wants, create a political party, pressure, create a political scene, do research, deceive the public, import, export. Anything's possible here. I repeat, a built-in aviary, gentlemen of the government, you don't know where our borders are, nor does the president know where our country is, where we should stop if we have to defend it and what to defend it with. Is the Secretary of Defense there? I don't think he knows what to defend her with, because when you walk through Serbia, there's no barracks left to see. You've shut down major projects. Why did you do that, we don't understand. We don't understand why, everything that's purest and adopted in parliament with so many votes, 214, are you complicated? It takes half a year to discuss it. Where are your big projects? We don't see a serious project showing up anywhere through the budget. There aren't any of those funds to be worked out of. You're saying it's a difficult financial situation. You didn't give us an answer - what about the giants in Serbia? Privatisation ends in a few days by law, what about Bora, Elektronic Industries, Majdanpek, Freedom, Viscoz, Jumko, Magnochroma, so I don't count anymore? Some of the municipalities died. Go to Rakovica, there's nothing to do. I was in Pryce the other day, there's nothing there. If it wasn't for the municipalities and the police, they wouldn't have anything to do. So you realize that it's got to be a little bit of an economy to think and talk about. You promise, you don't keep. You hire various groups that explain, interpret, talk, but nothing happens in Serbia. You've thrown out projects and projects that mean life for individual environments. You've turned off "Glassboy" as you came. We've been talking all summer that five municipalities don't have water to drink. We've been talking all summer about Banat having no water to drink. Isn't it a 21st-century shame that someone in Serbia doesn't have water to drink? Here are the projects in the budget. You threw them out. You've thrown them out, and these many projects that you're explaining credit lines for, you're talking about -- there's no money to do the paperwork, but not to talk about expropriation. What about Banat? What about the individual places that are threatened? Is that European Serbia? Is that 200,000 new jobs you announced bombing? Where are your Schengen visas? End of the year, Djelic, what about white Schengen visas? It's the end of the year, there's nothing. What about the Association Agreement? You said -- it'll be okay, only if we win for European Serbia. You win, there's no deal. Not you, people, Europe. You're the way you are, but you don't want anything. Look, Djelic, you've been to Brussels a hundred times. They don't want you, I don't know why. Why don't you ask them why they don't want you? Don't smile now. Now one story is very interesting, what about the 1,000-euro stock? Five million poor Serbian citizens stood in ranks, lined up, enrolled day and night, and you were publishing how the enrollment was going. People signed up, they've been waiting 1,000 euros since the new year, it's for the other day, and there's none of it. How dare you lie so much to this people? Five million people you lied to. You said it was shared and nothing. I don't see Krkobic here. He shouldn't have come. What about those 70 percent pensions? The people rejoiced, believed, voted, came out, and what now? There's nothing. There's a crisis again, and it's not gonna happen. You said "Fiat" is coming, "Mercedes" is coming "Boing", "Folksvagen" is coming, everyone is coming to Serbia. Serbia is becoming Europe's largest construction site, the fastest in development in the environment. There's nothing. This "Fiyat" thing is gonna piss you off. He won't work with you dead Fiat, and what black Mercedes to come to you with, and Folkswagen, he doesn't know shit, believe me. You gave them what you didn't give them, what came to mind, per worker of 105,000 euros. It is not remembered in Serbia's history and yet something is not being remembered, it will not. So think about it. Of course, layoffs are big, big ones. If I were in government, I'd be ashamed to hear the gas went up 60%. A serious government must never allow for more accumulation than inflation or if it is an abnormal disorder in the world, but this time it is not yet. There's nothing more serious about us, and you're not ready if it happens. And my misfortunes, and where should we happen, which economy do we have to hit? You go to Rakovica and everything is dead, nothing works. People, certain municipalities have died and there is no life in them. In the large cities you admire, the sewers go to open channels, and that is also in Belgrade, and in many cities across Serbia. I've been to these cities. There's an open sewer going through the city. And you make up a circle of two and talk. Take the Turtle, the Sheep, the Borch, is that Belgrade? The craftsman who's suffocating there, people can't breathe. I don't even want to talk about it. You attached it to Belgrade to boost revenues. What's your business in Belgrade doing? Minister of Business, does IMT work? Shut down the tractor factory that's working. Is it for the Dragon, the First Spark Baric, does Rakovica Record, Lola Ribar, the largest Serb giants work? They're not working. What aren't they doing? Because you don't know how to lead them and you have to leave. It's a waste of time with you. A stable dinar -- says Jelasic, turn savings into dinar roles. What about tomorrow when the money disappears to patch this up every day, some job there or here to artificially maintain? Then where are we going to be? So, I'm not talking about agriculture. How could a poor peasant survive when you imported meat, imported milk powder, imported eggs, imported pears and apples recently? The import lobby is harassing Serbia. It's destroying her completely and you're looking at it all calmly. You've got to do something about it, and you haven't done anything. How can he sow, how can he reap, if he's a bag of artificial fertilizer, gentlemen, 2,800 dinars? It's two acres of forest's best country. When was a bag of fertilizer two acres of land? You can buy a salary for a house for two sacks of garbage in every village in Serbia. It has no perspective, Ministers of Agriculture, no, and you have to do something, and you're nothing. There goes one calendar year, another one comes, and that's why you have to leave. You'll vote us over and you'll stay, but that's sad and sad. After what you're hearing today, you should leave on your own. When MPs tell you, you should leave alone, if you have morals. It's over, so if I don't, we'll get back to you safely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10742	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. Mr. Vladan Batic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10743	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, the position of the DHSS on the issue of not trusting the Government is well known. We will not vote for the proposal, because it would mean Serbia's return. DHSS supports the government, whose headquarters is DS, despite the fact that we do not agree with the government's coalition composition and despite the government's failures and mistakes. However, the dominant role of the DS is both hope and guarantee that this government leads Serbia through the European future, which is the DHSS priority. First of all, I'd like to commend the work of a few ministers in this government. First of all, I want to apostrophe the role of Foreign Minister Mr. Jeremic, because I believe that winning the United Nations General Assembly is something that deserves all praise and is the result of the fanatical work and resistance of Minister Jeremic. I would also like to commend the work of Snezana Malovic, who has indeed taken the course of radical reforms in the judiciary, despite the fact that I personally disagree and have reservations regarding the Law on Territorial Organisation and Areas of Courts and Prosecutors. But no matter how much we generally support the government, we don't support all individuals in that government, and we don't think that some people are in this and this kind of government. Why? Because there are two basic principles of democracy, the principle of responsibility and the principle of exchangeability. In this difficult and cloudy time, the principle of responsibility should be the axiom of rule, it should be raised to the pedestal of all principles. That's why I think the government should be reconstructed and the government no longer has those who shared false promises, and now they're justifying it to the global economic crisis. First of all, I think of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. The promise of free action, or action worth 1,000 euros for five million Serbian citizens, reminds Baron Minhauzen's stories, as if we live in fairy tale times and Brothers Grimm. This would mean that state-owned enterprises are sold for five billion euros, so that the state keeps nothing to itself, but that everything is paid to the citizens of Serbia. Clearly, something like that is impossible. About the energy agreement, anyone who did not vote in this assembly to ratify the agreement today could support what Mr Dinkic is saying today. But let us remember that the creator of the agreement was the previous government in which he was minister, that his party's MPs here in parliament voted to ratify the agreement and that he was headed by the negotiating team. Finally, what Vice-President and Minister Dinkic said after his public address and in this debate in parliament at the expense of the rest of the government, I think he is creating a moral dilemma whether after that he can remain in the government. Lately, Mr Dinkic has also made unreal promises regarding the perspective of the flag, arguing that Fiat will fulfill what the agreement envisions. Fiat is in agony. Fiat's in front of bankruptcy. Fiyat will not invest in Serbia 200m euros and fire thousands of his workers, it is unrealistic. When Pandora's box of enormous salaries of the directors of public enterprises, board members, was opened, it was dominated by the staff of Vice President Mladjan Dinkic, whose ideology is the only money, always and only money, to the last pair of taxpayers in Serbia. The second Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Jovan Krkobibic, has also deceived the citizens and deceived the pensioners, the most vulnerable and most vulnerable category of citizens of Serbia, with cheap and untrue promises that now justify the global economic crisis. The IMF, who we and how we depend on, said something like that was impossible. When you deceive those who trusted you, then it's your turn to leave. Mr. Djelic, you have in some way failed the expectations of Serbian citizens. You promised a bid by the end of the year for EU membership, you promised a white Schengen list. Those promises are not fulfilled. You really need to think about your continued survival in the government, although I can see that you've now broken up and now you don't even mention the end of 2009, as the date until which we will become a candidate country for EU membership, or enter the White Schengen list. They must not be deceived by citizens. I know it's not your subjective, but it is an objective responsibility. But you can't give an unreal assessment. There are other ministers who shouldn't be members of the government anymore, but I wouldn't point out that. I would only draw Mr. Skundric's attention that in this eruption and flood criticism at the expense of the one-on-one salaries of directors and members of public enterprises, you must not allow yourself to have high incomes and great privileges on the control of a public enterprise as a minister. It just tastes bad. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10744	Thank you, Mr. Batic. The word comes from MP Vlajko Senic, in front of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10745	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, the honourable MPs, the debate on the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not make much sense unless we start to shed light on the political context in which this government was formed, because it seems to me that we have relatively quickly forgotten how perilous it was in 2008 and what was happening at its beginning. We had two elections, we had unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo and we had the attempt of those forces that lost in 2000, so they hoped on March 12th that they would return to power, that on the subject of Kosovo and crocodile tears because of the loss of Kosovo, they would re-establish a government that would have the sole goal, not economic reforms of the country, not to enter the EU, not even to implement an agreement with the Russian Federation, but to deal with their political opponents exclusively. The declaration of Kosovo's independence was an ideal stage for such a government to be formed and we went to the polls in the worst possible conditions when we talk about fighting for Serbia's European idea, which is a fight that has been fought by Serbian citizens for 18 years since a multi-party system was established. In addition, despite such an atmosphere, despite the hickey and the link that was headed to the For European Serbia coalition, as a list that wants to betray Serbia and sell Kosovo, citizens are mass, even more than we expected, supported our list and gave us the mandate to form a government and lead Serbia further into the EU. Of course, some who are now getting the rabid ones were standing on stage waiting for the US Embassy to enter that government to deal with political opponents, and today they are standing in long lines to come and join the same embassy. And this tells you how much the political context in Serbia has changed in the past year and it tells you about how great the victory for the European Serbia coalition was in the elections that were held just six months ago. In addition to a convincing victory, you didn't surrender after the election defeat. They tried all possible means, pressures and blackmails, above all on one coalition partner, to force them to form, as also said here in the debate, a government that will number 126 MPs, which has no programme, which has no purpose whatsoever, but only to deal with people, parties and politicians who have a European idea of Serbia at their heart. The government is formed and has good results after six months. In the area of the economy, although we hear here mocking an agreement with Fiat, we are in the process of making the agreement, which will transform one Serbian loser, in which the state has invested hundreds of millions of euros over the last eight years, into the potentially largest export asset of our economy, which is to solve one of our biggest economic problems, which is a high external trade deficit. The agreement will be realised, we firmly believe it and there is no connection so much that there is a crisis in the auto-industry. Of course, it affects our expectations and fears are higher, but you need to know that in all modern economies there is a shift in classical production. The U.S. economy has over 80% of its income from services, it comes from manufacturing precisely because Serbia has offered the factory conditions that could not have been obtained in any country in the environment, and of course it can't get in Italy itself, because there's a firm worker you have to pay several thousand euros. We have offered our comparative advantages, we are fighting for this agreement and we believe that it will be realised in the interests of the citizens of Serbia and in the interests of our economy. We've made an improvement in social policy as well. Maybe there were different concepts about how to work. We felt that we needed to develop the economy and thus work for the social responsibility of our citizens, but we respected our coalition partner's request to reach the level of pensions by rebalancing the 2009 budget. It is one necessary, healthy, in any case a healthy compromise that must reflect the current political strength of partners in the ruling coalition. In the area of foreign policy, the state inherited Kosovo's independence and the fact that when I say quality, then I think of the most powerful countries, a high-quality number of countries, in terms of the number of countries that exist today in the UN, but almost all EU and US countries have recognised Kosovo's independence. But we managed to verify that what seemed to be irrelevant, a quantity, or a vast number of countries that did not want to follow such a policy, that we are verifying it institutionally in the UN General Assembly and that this state is doing, after a long time, a great diplomatic victory and that it may not save the process of declaring Kosovo independence, but that it is, in any case, slowing it down and showing that this is not the question Serbia raised its hands from. This is not a topic that the government of the "For European Serbia" coalition will not deal with and there are diplomatic and political ways to safeguard the territorial integrity of this country, while at the same time maintaining relations, of course, with those who support us in this fight, but also to maintain relations, and this is political reality and political pragmatism, and with those countries that have declared Kosovo's independence. That is why the government has restored bilateral relations, because we cannot even dream of regaining integrity if we are in some political conflict with the EU or with the United States. Therefore, those accusations that stood when this government was formed, that it does not take care of Kosovo, that it does not take care of territorial integrity, we have shown practically that it can, through international institutions, regardless of the huge resistance of strong countries, make a diplomatic victory. I think that's a good thing, and everybody's admitting it to us. In the area of foreign policy, we have continued our path towards European integration, and this is the cornerstone that allowed the government of the "For European Serbia" coalition to be made. I am sure that by completing co-operation with The Hague, we will be able to remove the last obstacle called one EU member and continue to implement the agreement. Also, it should be said, that's the part about the economy, that our insistence is on, and that's good, regardless of 300m euros in almost lost tax revenues, this state, this government, this Assembly will decide to start applying the agreement from January 1st. This is our EU message - we are doing everything we can on The Hague tribunal, we ourselves are applying this agreement and we expect Serbia to accept this courageously extended hand and our EU friends and move on. The third thing about this government, which may be most important, is the future of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that is the fact that it has its own political future, regardless of how much the media is more concerned in the last days about how different there are in the government of Serbia than with the similarities between coalition partners. I am sure that the government has a future if it remains firm on the policy course for which citizens, as I said in the worst possible conditions, have given mandate and given support. Here, the opposition leader's speeches say there are differences in coalition partners' attitudes. We don't hide those differences. We have informed the public about these differences and we think that such a way of working government is just a quality, and a new quality compared to some earlier cases and earlier periods when, like, there was no difference, and when there were a lot of side kicks under the table and when the government essentially had no unity. I believe this government has a future, but it also has a huge risk. This is a government that can bring Serbia into the EU. When I say it brings to the EU, I think it has led to a step since joining the EU, but this is also the honourable MPs, the last government that can fulfill that mission and a government that has a chance, if this job does not end, to seriously jeopardise the idea of Euro-Atlantic and European integration in Serbia. I think that this is a warning, this danger that floats over all members of the government, which hovers over members of the parliamentary majority in the Serbian Parliament, a much greater guarantee that the government will achieve such results and that this obligation is a much greater threat and commitment to its successful work than the threat of any single or total opposition party. No government has had this many tests, obstructions, problems like this government in the past six months, but the goal it is pursuing is great, it is Serbia in the EU. The possible loss of not achieving this path is also great and therefore our obligation is for all members of the ruling coalition to do their jobs, to do and to carry out the work that Serbian citizens have given him and to jointly realise at the end of the term of office that we have done the job and to go to some subsequent parliamentary elections in peace, in which opposition parties will be able to say what they think of the work, and ultimately, Serbian citizens in the best possible way to assess its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10746	Thank you, Mr. Senic. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Shormaz, you won't get your word. Here you are, Mr Dragan Markovic Palma, in front of the SPS-JS parliamentary group. DRAGAN MARKOVIĆ-PALMA: Mr. Prime Minister, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, respected representativeship, I have reported for the reason that there has been no obstruction in this House for five months now, many laws have not been passed. When I say this, I don't mean parties that have been in opposition since 2000. I am solely referring to parties that have been in opposition since 11 July 2008. I'll list a few facts about their discussion. Today we could hear that the arrival of EULEX in KIM is very harmful to Serbia, and I ask if we could ban EULEX from coming to KIM, did EULEX come to KIM because a decision was made on SB, where two states, Russia and China, which did not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence? When a former KIM minister comes out and he's about to cry for this pay phone, and he thinks the people have forgotten that he's had his post for the past three years and that those promises, which they made at the time, have not been realized. I'm not saying they didn't want to, but there was a higher power -- an international community, which still exists today. Why don't we agree with their actions? I'll give you an example where the SPS-JS parliamentary club will never accept the continuity of the former government when it comes to the KIM problem. Is it good to give advice and take the railroad in Mitrovica and that Bosko Buha, only the bomb was missing by his belt, says, "Today this is the Serbian railway"? For two days, that railroad was ours, and after that it belonged to those of whom even years earlier. Then they advised the judges to enter the court building and say, "From today, this is a Serbian court." I'm just asking these judges if they're volcanoes or lawyers, so they could read what our rights and obligations are. And then they said to the Serbian police, "Get out of the KPS." They went out and a lot of those cops were out of a job. When a Serb family is found in one car, four police officers stop it on the road, and there are no Serb police officers in the group, who will protect the Serbs in the car? Do I need our prime minister, Mr. Cvetkovic, to take Serbian citizens to church, as did the former prime minister. You go to church when you get married, when you get baptized, when you wear a cake, and you pray to God when you're sick. The former prime minister took Serbian citizens to church to pray to God, to God ask Ban Ki Moon to declare Ban Ki Moon a zero decision on the independence of KIM. Is that the continuity of state policy? Is it okay to send advice to students in Mitrovica every day,'sustain, Serbia's youth, our children', go naked to KFOR soldiers, to teeth armed, and their children in EU countries. Never will this prime minister send our children They'll never send them where they're not. [[Applause]] If we're going to lead Serbia into war, and of course we won't, whoever suggests it has to be in the front row and say, "Go ahead, follow me," and no, let's go there for a while, and we're going to use our citizens' emotions because KIM's independence was declared February 17th, that few citizens vote for us. That's a little 11%. Now my ex-friend Velimir Ilic comes out for a pay phone, so when he goes, then the current wants to go away the other day, and he says that you're not ashamed, here's Magnochrom the King's salary for 36 months, he says, shame on you. Of the 36 months, 34 months he's in power, hey people. That's what the citizens of Serbia listen to. Serbian citizens listen to it every day, and they told us, they said, "Please don't replicate it because we are in a hurry to pass laws, etc." We're in a hurry, and they're skillfully obstructing, ladies and gentlemen. They say you've made a lot of promises. A large number of MPs have here that have never concluded any business contracts, maybe they haven't been able to, it's not degradation, it can do some other business. In each business contract there is one member in which it is said – in the case of more force there will be no more realization of previous members of those, those and those. We've had two more forces this year. A higher power is an unplanned global economic crisis. Mr. Cvetkovic didn't bring this crisis, so you're criticizing him every day. The crisis occurred in the world, it is being transferred to a small state called Serbia. Of course all promises can't be made economically. Furthermore, there is another higher power, Eulex. They got caught up as a mother-in-law, Eulex, writes in Marty Ahtisaari's plan and writes here as well. Yes, it does, it says, if Russia and China have said, gentlemen, accept EULEX to come to KIM, and every day we say, let's, let's, here Russia defends us, so we give them NIS, and they criticize Mr. Cvetkovic and this government again, ladies and gentlemen. The government's greatest success is not the arrest of Radovan Karadzic. Let me tell you, the SPS-JS parliamentary club is against this kind of work by the UN tribunal, which applies the double arches, to free the murderers and criminals of Haradinaj and Naser Oric, and to give the Serbs large sentences. Why do you deliver 26 Serbs from the former authorities by July 7th, and deliver General Lazarevic, General Pavkovic, and you roasted pigs when he went there, and now it's your fault, you tell us, because it respects the international obligation. When you were, it was an international obligation, and this is treason. We have to go out for this pay phone all the time when you're saying we're denying you the lies you're making, and that the citizens of Serbia are listening and that they think that's true. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, you will have to apply the Rules of Procedure as it says, but not every day the MPs who were in power appear until July 7th and say, I ask for an article. The 225th and 226th to examine this and that, that the minister appears. Here, they can ask all the ministers today. We in Jagodina 27 dots finish in 27 minutes. We have the opposition, too. It doesn't cost us the work of parliament, so we reroute that money, for every child born 200 euros from the budget, for every fourth born in the family 200 euros every month until the age of 18, anyone who is sick gets free medicines, students who go from village to school don't pay for a bus ticket, persons over 65 don't pay for a bus ticket. Here, if Mr. Micunovic had been in Jagodina, he wouldn't have paid for the bus ticket and a few more of them, besides having great merits he has so many years to drive it for free. When, far away, someone dies, that family gets out of the 200-euro budget. When they graduate fourth grade, eighth grade and high school go to sea for 10 days free of charge. A thousand 500 scholarships have students and high school students. We just saved it because we're not fighting, because there's no obstruction in the community. There's an obstruction here every day. Please, Mrs. Slavica Djukic, when this item of the agenda is over, trust the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so now that there would be someone voting on the Internet or text messages, Serbian citizens to vote, when they listen to my friend Velje pounding like an open window, so we would get 200% of the votes, people, 200% of the votes they would get. You know, you can't listen to that anymore when someone who was in power yesterday criticises, you see, he says, that city collapsed, and then they say, the military reserve didn't receive. Of course, you should take it. As I recall, these military reserves were in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia when he was Prime Minister Kostunica. Why didn't he do it? The prime minister and the government have not sold any businesses since 7 July this year. There is something in the budget called – the gulf side and the effusion side. Therefore, there was no money on the inflow from the sale of the company. In addition to the fact that there was no money from the sale of the company, everything works out, paid off in time. Therefore, the SPS-JS parliamentary group demands that it not be allowed to appear by one member every day and ask questions that will be asked today, because we no longer have time to lose. We need to pass a large number of laws to stop on the white Schengen list, enter the EU, get a lot of investors into Serbia, not every day we criticize and scare Italians as they come into the failed flag. The flag didn't go down. The flag will stand on its feet, not only the flag, but other factories in Serbia. We have to be unique, and we can't let us act like it's an election campaign every day. Gentlemen, the election's over. The citizens have given trust to the parties. This government is made. If you have arguments to criticize something that's wrong and suggest something that's good, fine. But not to criticize and attack just because you're not in power. You know what, it's a habit of you going to see a game, watching a movie, going to a bar, but the habit of being a minister, and the prime minister can't be in Serbia. Serbian citizens decide on that Finally, we can conclude, to congratulate the president of the state, to congratulate the government of the Republic of Serbia, its ministers, on the diplomacy they led, that for the first time since 2000 something Serbia has proposed has voted on at the UN General Assembly. [[Applause]] This deserves a big round of applause and a leading minister. diplomacy and the entire government, and all ministers. [[Applause]] Because let me tell you, the differences between these ministers and those before, these ministers fought to solve Kosovo and Metohija's problems, but they did what their portfolio did. The previous ones, they all talked about Kosovo, watch out, every child knows the KIM problem. This government will never recognise KIM's independence. Never. It's the promise of all the parties that made this government. I'm done with two sentences. Ma'am, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, please don't mind me Mrs. Natasa Micic, this is not malicious, when she was president of the Assembly, such a rigorous Rules of Procedure was, I am not for that Rules of Procedure to return. Now, when you go out for a pay phone and you say "a," and that's not at the agenda point, she says, "stop, you said "a," go to the place. This isn't bad or malicious. But we can't let the same amendment from an MP's club say 30. So they don't think the same thing. All right, there's a difference between parties, but it doesn't go to my head. I asked a question to a high general on a show, and I say, well, is it okay to have obstructions in such a way? What would you do if at one meeting there were 30 captains, the majors, your subordinates, and each of them were to ask, General, when there would be a salary, General, when there would be an advance. He says - I'd answer for everything once. Why don't you act like that in parliament? Let me congratulate you, congratulating the citizens of St. Nicholas, that those who celebrate spend in health and joy, those who go to the guests, too, to have a good time and to tell Serbian citizens not to worry -- this government will last four years and this government will serve as Serbian citizens. The SPS-JS parliamentary club will support a government like this, and we are confident that this government will last four years. I thank Mr. Dragan Markovic-Palma. Mr. Momo Colakovic, United Pensioners' MP group. I'm sorry, Mr. Samardzic is right at all times, as a proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10748	Dear People's MPs, I reported that I would somehow try to stop the direction and flow of this assembly, as it went to the last few speakers. In fact, this is slowly turning into a lardy, very obvious and very deliberate, especially on this subject -- the occasion that we have opened for a vote of mistrust to the government. So it's a disgrace to this congregation. Indeed, I appeal, if possible, I don't know if it's even relevant here to do this, to make a lot of speakers and audiences. I don't think the ruling majority could have happened, to what she afforded herself, to applaud so freneticly and so often the speech of one Dragan Markovic - Palma.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10749	Mr Samardzic, please, Mr Dragan Markovic-Palma is an MP, as are you. You've given a peorative sound, and I ask you to take care of the way you speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10750	So it is important, if at all possible, that this assembly speaks and brings to an end somehow this very serious topic of the agenda, otherwise it only mocks itself, its own state, its own torment, its own destiny, Kosovo and Metohija. So this was just an introduction to tell you why I answered the word, and now I'd just go on with a few sentences, a few thesises. In fact, this was about talking about facts. It's the only way to be serious about this important thing. I tried the opening letter to stick to facts only. Maybe there were too many of them for your motivation to talk about. Perhaps there were too many for the possibility of absorbing them, given the motivation. But it was just facts. It is obvious that this topic has been hidden from Serbian citizens for months. No matter how much we try to talk about it, we didn't really know what it was during some alleged six-point negotiations, conditions, etc. So that's one fact that we managed to somehow discover here today. Today we have facts as far as these negotiations are concerned. So, one presidential statement of two sentences was made and the six-point famous programme, which guarantees something to Serbia and Serbs, was pushed into a report by the Secretary-General, which is legally not binding either the Security Council or the General Assembly. It has come to the conclusion that the six points in the Secretary-General's report are equal to the response of the Albanian side, Pristina, as their text is attached as an annex to the Secretary-General's report. I'm saying a few facts that I'd like to try and motivate the MPs to get involved in this. In fact, our thesis is very clear. This is about one big scam. If she passes so easily and easily in this congregation, then this country has big problems. It's not just about Kosovo anymore, it's about some other things. That is how we will be put in place when the Statute of Vojvodina is and when we have additional conditions for joining the EU, etc. Pay attention, this assembly of lagers between the laurel and the European dogma. So, between something that's funny if it wasn't sad and something that's sad if it wasn't funny. We are talking about the EU today as if it were reaching out to us. We're still talking, even though we don't have an "s" from a realisation agreement. That's quite clear. Clearly, the Hague condition is not crucial, although it is important, it is KIM. Can't you see they're blackmailing us with the recognition of KIM, with the opening of dialogue? That's what those six dots are for. Get in that thing a little bit. You'll have to answer for yourself. I'm not saying this government is going to fall, there's no talking about it, I've seen how most behave. It's important to her to laugh, to applaud stupidity, and to make comedy out of this congregation. But, however, this government will have to meet these following conditions on behalf of this country. It will come to the situation that perhaps justice here one day had to recognise Kosovo and openly, and verbally, and not just like this, signing various agreements and accepting various unfavourable arrangements. These are the things this congregation has to talk about. Instead, an alternative is being preached here, and the alternative is being talked about in relationships of belief, trust. You know what, in the EU, it's not about values; values are a philosophical category, it's about discussion at philosophical seminars, it's about interests. Each state has its own interests, and the one that used to be there and the ones that came. See what happens today between Slovenia and Croatia around a small piece of the sea. It's serious stuff. So Serbia will never represent its interests towards the EU, as are countries that are either members, or are candidates. Why? Because this congregation is what it is and because it makes a joke out of serious state issues, and the unserious and unserious issues that are not on the agenda consider one of the most common dogmas, as a colorful lie, as promises for young children or minors. That's what this is about. So, my appeal is, I wouldn't want to pummel, because it's neither the time nor the time to have a serious debate. It's still the only chance this country has of moving something through the Assembly, telling the government something that, even if it's implicated, it might be too quiet to accept, as some idea, as some kind of proposal for work, etc. This doesn't lead to anything right now. We're giving territory for nothing. I'm not saying we should give it up for something, but what's going on is for nothing, so far nothing's been won, and public opinion is being deceived. That's what we're talking about here, that's what the opening part of the assembly and the speeches of some opposition representatives was about. I'd like to ask that as serious as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10751	Thank you, Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10752	The President-in-Office, the respected working presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, the honourable MPs, the PUPS for the first time managed to enter this parliament together with the SPS-JS and created conditions to fight for the achievement of its programme and its objectives marked above all in the sphere of economic and social dimensions of the state. In that sense, we also envisioned our programming task regarding the formation of a new government and the ruling coalition. By accepting the formation of the ruling coalition, we have primarily insisted that one of the primary objectives of this government be the economic and social dimension of the state, primarily because it has many socially endangered families, many poor pensioners and a large number of socially endangered people. This, above all, concerns our programme and one of the basic tasks is a large number, over a million and 600,000, pensioners. We've come up with two basic tasks. The first is that the social situation and the social status of pensioners must be improved and it must be different. It is our assessment that these processes have begun to happen in this task, and in this sense we see significant progress made by this government and the ministries. The second task is to open processes for the better material and social position of pensioners. We also appreciate that these processes and these tasks have begun to come true. I would only mention a few things that were present in this congregation in the debate, as well as in the functioning of the Government. Positive effects are felt by the adoption of a 10% pension increase regulation. We see significant progress in that. These processes should be continued according to our assessment. Significant processes are in achieving health care, especially old people, the old part of the population of this country. The third thing that is very important, we feel a positive process and a shift in the forecasts of significant resources for socially endangered categories of population, among which pensioners are in the highest number, which will feel the greatest burden of the economic and financial crisis in the coming period. In the next period, we expect these processes to be achieved in a positive way. It's our opinion that the government will succeed. We expect in the coming years, and especially in the coming year, to continue the processes, to come up with a new law on pension-inhabitation, to come up with a new health care law, or at least to change and supplement, to come up with a new social protection law, and in particular we insist, and we think there should be a new labour law. This would put government and all of us in approximately the same level of care for development, as well as care for the economic and social dimension, as concerns that will go to the same level with economic and political development. We appreciate that investing primarily in young people, in workers, and why not say it in pensioners, is also a development function, and we must not ignore it. Once again, on several discussions that have been here, we never agree, and that was in the debate over the past two months, that retirement is a social category. She's an economic category, and we have to preserve it. Finally, for these and many other reasons, we think that the government should continue these processes and, I must say, you are just beginning reforms on an economic, political, development plan, and above all what we are particularly insisting on, at social dimensions in the interests of citizens and throughout Serbia. In this regard, we support the Government and we seek to make our contribution to its successful work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10753	Thank you, Mr. Cholakovic. Mr. Balint Pastor, A Group of Minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10754	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MPs of the SVM will not support an initiative to vote against the Government. We still have confidence in Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic's government and support the work of Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic's government. We are convinced that the new elections would be extremely harmful at this time or next year. For SVM, it is of paramount importance that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia travel without visas at the end of next year and that Serbia become a candidate for EU membership next year. We are convinced that these two objectives can only be achieved if there is political stability and if this government survives. For these reasons, we will not deny the support of Mr Mirko Cvetkovic's government. At the same time, I would like to say a few sentences about what we expect from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, from the Government of Mr Mirko Cvetkovic. The SVM expects to respect SVM as part of this ruling coalition, as a party without whose MPs do not have a majority in this parliament. We expect respect for the basic priorities, the basic programming principles of SVM. We expect it to work vigorously towards the EU. We expect that even more energy is being worked to defuse European values in the Republic of Serbia. We expect that much more energy is being done on the issue of Vojvodina autonomy and we expect it to be much more serious to extend the rights and freedoms of members of the national minorities. These are our basic programming definitions and we expect to respect these basic programming definitions of ours. If that's the way it's gonna be in the future, then you'll have a reliable partner in SVM that can always be counted on. In this place, I want to talk about two issues from the recent past that have had some disagreements. One question is the Republic of Serbia's budget for next year and whether Vojvodina will receive at least 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. I don't think it was a good signal to the people of Vojvodina that the government in the draft budget for next year tried to make that figure anything below 5%. Fortunately, in recent weeks we have managed to correct that figure, we have managed to fight for the draft budget that is absolutely counter-constitutional in the Assembly and that is absolutely against the interests of the people of Vojvodina. That is why we will support the Republic of Serbia's budget for next year and we will not have amendments. I'm going to talk a little bit more about this issue in the budget debate, I hope, on Monday. The second problem that has arisen and caused the debate and different interpretations of whether the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians is still part of the ruling coalition or not, is the proposal for a law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. We have talked a lot about this in the past few weeks, and we have talked very much about the fact that, in the proposed form of the bill, it is harmful for the citizens of Vojvodina and for the citizens of Serbia. We have made all the arguments against this bill in the debate, and of course I would not want to take up time and repeat these arguments that are known to everyone, and to fellow MPs, and to ministers and the whole public, but I would like to say once again that it is very bad that such a single question has not been discussed with us in time and that therefore the Assembly has come into the situation that this law will obviously not be adopted in the National Assembly, this one law from the set of judicial laws. As a result, both the Government and the Assembly will come into a difficult position, but for that we do not feel responsible, since we warned about it for a month and a half ago, and no one wanted to listen to us and no one wanted to discuss these problems more seriously with us and to reach some compromise. We were prepared to compromise, as we are always ready to compromise, but we had no one to talk to, unfortunately, to discuss the subject of arguments. That's why the law will unfortunately fall in the voting day and that's very bad. It would have been much better if we had discussed it and that the law had been adopted in a slightly altered form, that our amendments and some other amendments were reasonable from opposition parties. What's going on, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament? Instead of talking about it, which I have to say from this place, means, instead of talking about these amendments, some parties ruling majority and today are trying to mistreat MPs from the Group of Minorities behind my back. That's not good. That doesn't contribute to a partner relationship in the government. Instead of talking, you ladies and gentlemen are trying to convince Mr. Riza Halimi, since you know there is one vote missing for the start of a vote on the draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, instead of talking, you are working behind the back of the Duke Hungarian Union. It's not good and it doesn't contribute to a partnership relationship. This attitude of yours, of course, will not change our opinion and our position that we continue to support this government, that we will vote against tonight's vote of no confidence to the government of Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, but I would ask you most nicely that this coalition government in the future respects the interests of all partners from the government and that in the government and in the ruling majority in the future there is an atmosphere of co-operation, an atmosphere of understanding. If so, then I am convinced that this government will survive for four years and I am convinced that it may be possible at the end of next year to achieve two strategic goals, which is a white Schengen list and a bid for membership in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10755	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the Prime Minister, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, want to discuss the motion for a vote of mistrust to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to answer questions raised in previous discussions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10756	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I would like to thank everyone, and especially those who have submitted a motion to vote for no confidence in the Government, because they have provided the government with the opportunity to express what she has done and to provide answers to all the questions that have been asked. At the same time, someone said this was happening before New Year's Eve, so we're making some inventory of what the government did from the moment of its formation to the end of the calendar year 2008. In my response, I will focus on three or four basic issues, not getting into details, and later on through a discussion, which will be attended by my ministers, to discuss all the issues in more detail. Regarding these basic, fundamental things where the government was formed, I would go from the issue of relations to Kosovo and Metohija, given that this issue is the essence of the proposal for a no-confidence vote. I want to say in general that when the government was formed in July, it found a certain, to say, starting or zero position at various levels and assessing whether it was doing well and what it was actually doing was assessing whether it was in relation to the found position - one, respecting what it had promised to respect, and another, whether it had made a shift in the right direction. When it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, I want to tell you that the official policy on the basis of which the government was formed was that the government would at all costs fight to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity, but of course using exclusively diplomatic, legal and at all peaceful means. So within that definition, the government has rejected all of the extreme policies, and on the one hand you have an extreme that says -- never mind, let them do whatever they want, we'll applaud, and on the other hand we'll take the rifle and then we'll fight. So between these two extremes, the government has chosen politics to fight uncompromisingly to the end, but using legal, diplomatic and peaceful means. As part of such an approach, we have raised the issue of voting for the resolution, which has been voted, as you know, by the vast majority of votes in the United Nations General Assembly, on the engagement of the Justice Court in The Hague for the assessment of the legal basis of Kosovo and Metohija, unilaterally declared independence, and on this occasion we have achieved the greatest diplomatic success in the last few decades, and despite the opposition of a number of very powerful countries. It is one achievement that is very difficult to ignore, and we must bear in mind that the alternatives were to initiate judicial proceedings against the countries that have confessed, to enter into isolation. So the government rejected such proposals and accepted the option I was talking about. The second question is the Eulex question, which is the very basis of the proposal for a no-confidence vote to the government. When considering this issue, we must again know that alternatives are available. You have an alternative to say - I don't care, you have an alternative to say - I won't, you also have an alternative to defend and have a fourth alternative accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I would like, for the sake of facts or facts, as one of the speakers said, which are necessary, and then we can judge them differently, the fact is that the Eulex question began without any involvement, or questions or involvement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It was also the fact that, regarding Eulex, there were opinions of certain lawyers from some European countries that no resolution was needed. If these two things were respected, that activity had started in some countries of Europe and that perhaps there was a possibility of finding some legal interpretation, we could have stayed completely out of the process. Those who criticise us do not say what was another alternative, but rather that we should engage in the process, become part of the process and that, to the extent possible, we are basically involved and practically in its course. I think that Eulex may also be considered one of the diplomatic successes of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because we have managed to get Eulex back to the UN, to reconfirm Resolution 1244, to become an active factor in the whole process. The alternative to that is -- EULEX is there, he effectively implements the plan of Marty Ahtisaari, Serbia has no influence whatsoever, and that's what I guess would have been the result of us going some other way, including the path proposed here, to say -- we won't, because I don't know if the proposal is even so drastic, that we're not just saying -- we're not going to, but we're also defending it in another way, which is not peaceful. So, the fact is that we've remained an active factor, that we're still involved in the whole process, we're wondering, and we're also maintaining relations with our people who live there. To get back to that second part, the government's policy has remained unchanged in that part, to support those who live there. For example, in Pomoravlje Kosovo we have built several kindergartens for the past few months, primary school and high school and a whole series of other activities that are under way in Osojana, but I will not talk about the details. If I can conclude from these two facts, I think the government stuck tightly, implemented a strategy related to KIM and made a qualitative shift in the implementation of that strategy, namely that compared to the situation we are not in a worse position than we were in when the government took over that policy. The second question is the issue of European integration. First of all, I want to say that our European integrations, essentially, are conditioned by the idea that we should be effective, legal, by all means a regulated country, in the way that EU countries are arranged and we want to become a member of the family of a developed and regulated part of the world. To become that, we need to make a huge number of changes within ourselves, both in legislation, in behavior, in institution creation, etc. In one word, the issue of Europe is closely related to the issue of a better standard. And the question is, what have we done for these few months on this plan, and have we made any shift, are we now closer or are we further to Europe, as we understood, than we were at the moment of government formation? The figures I'm about to tell you are different from the figures we've had the chance to hear about legislation, and they differ precisely because of the figures of what the government has done, not parliament. So I'm not saying this is enough. It is also necessary that parliament has done many things. I do not criticise parliament, the government has been elected by parliament, and the government has not chosen parliament, I always respect that fact and the relationship between the government and parliament, but this is about voting the government's mistrust, so let me tell you what the government has done in terms of legislation and where we are now. The government has, from formation to today, established and forwarded the bill to Parliament 64. It has also done three strategies and one major national programme for European integration. It's an impressive number of laws that the government has handled, handed over, what happens to them, you know better about it than I do. What is it we miss? We're missing a white Schengen to do two more laws, I'm talking about the government, handing over five conventions to parliament for ratification, to adopt six strategies, and to establish three institutions. What the government will do very quickly, by the end of the first quarter of next year we will do these two laws, refering conventions to ratification is no problem, since it is one formality, and we will prepare the necessary strategies. However, the institutions cannot be established until the laws, which form these institutions, are passed in this House, and as soon as that happens, the government will establish them immediately. From the institutions, these are the following institutions: 1) Anti-Corruption Agency, 2) the Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets, and 3) the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data, should be united in one office. The third question, which was also mentioned, is the issue of economic policy and what is it that the government has done in the context of economic policy. As for the other two points, I would remind you that our basic concept of economic policy was about to form a socially responsible government, that economic policy, above all, is developmental and that the balance between current consumption and the future of this country must be respected. These were the bases from which economic policy was made for the end of 2008 and 2009. As you know, after the government was formed, the first signals from abroad on the economic crisis began to arrive, and two to three months ago it became quite clear that the crisis would not bypass us. At that time, the government formed an operational group, which gave first information and first recommendations on the crisis in October. I would like to say what is particularly important, and that is that, even after all the insights and great insights that have been done, and the great knowledge that we have, the measures that we have prepared for the crisis, we have come to the conclusion that the basic economic principles on which the government is formed remain in force, only that we have put them in a slightly different way. When it comes to the government's social responsibility, we now call this principle solidarity and by solidarity we all literally all have to bear their share of the burden. When we say that there must be a balance between current consumption and the future, we call it a restrictive and incentive programme of measures, where restrictions apply primarily to the country sector, and incentives to economy in the work that should enable us to develop in the coming year. These are identical principles, just different formulas, which tells us about the justification of the attitudes from which we started when the government was formed. As I said, as part of the government's engagement so far, it knows exactly the mechanisms through which the crisis from the world flows into our economy and we also have the appropriate measures that we have proposed. The measures go in different directions. One of the important measures is the budget, which I won't talk about, because it's a matter of special session that's about to take place. So, I still want to say that the development projects around Corridor 10, which were also based on the government's programme, are still on the table and they are still in priority and will be realised, although I have heard that some debaters believe that there is nothing of it. That's just not true. Corridor 10 remains our main product. In the end, about economic measures, I want to say that the fact that the program exists as such. It has been announced that the original principles do not give up, those that were at a time when the government was formed and, finally, if we are talking about facts, we must say that neither the results are left behind, despite all the negative announcements, criticising our banking system, calls on people to withdraw money from banks. We have shown that the system is stable, sustainable and we have shown that we will be able to go through the measures that we are preparing to go through next year with some positive growth rate, which is planned at 3.5% compared to this year. This year we expect to end quite well, with a growth rate of close to 7% and inflation that will barely exceed 8%, although there have been such magnificent announcements not only of double-digit inflations, but of the entire disasters that await us. So, objectively, the results are there, the measurements are there. We are facing, and we must be aware of this, with a crisis whose dimensions still no one in the world has been able to determine what they are, or the depth, but what we know is that this crisis is the biggest crisis that all of us who are in this room and who have lived had the opportunity to feel and to conflict in our lives. Based on everything I've said, I'd like to answer another, fourth question, which also turns around and puts it as an objection to the government. It's a type of remark - this government is doing nothing. When you have a generic remark, a guy -- nothing, everything, etcetera, it's a sure sign that you don't have arguments. This remark would be fully in place if neither Eulexa nor UN Resolution, nor 64 adopted laws, or not adopted but established proposals, nor economic policy measures, nor high economic growth this year, nor relatively low inflation. So, if all of this hadn't been done, then that remark would have been in place, and this is how critics have to stay on general flossules. I'd say so much to begin with, and about the details, as I said, my ministers will turn around. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10757	I thank Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Mirk Cvetkovic. Mr. Samardzic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10758	Dear People's MPs, at the beginning of this presentation to thank the Prime Minister for, in his peaceful tone and trying to give facts and a reasonable explanation, helping to lead this debate on this important topic in a real and dignified way. I really thank you, and what I'm going to say next is, of course, differences, but those differences that are subject to discussion and which are subject to evaluations of what kind of argument gives about what it claims. Of course, we read in the newspaper often and often heard about how the government has defined itself as a diplomatic action around KIM and a legal action around KIM. Of course, no one could say that the action had some result. Namely, now that we are on December 17th or 18th, after the Security Council's decision we spoke of, we can appreciate the result of such a commitment to the government. By the way, Prime Minister Cvetkovic has a little bananad the alternatives that existed. He kind of pushed them into the extreme. He said, "We had to do this," because if we didn't, we'd either be doing nothing or it would be at war. You'd take the gun. It's an observation similar to the one he criticized when he said that some here claim that the government is doing nothing. If we push things to the extreme, then we become insecure and inconclusive ourselves, but that's not the most important thing right now. The most important thing is what I'm talking about, what the result is. Therefore, the diplomatic action gave rise to the General Assembly's decision to seek advisory opinion on KIM before the Court of Justice and nothing more. I'm afraid I can't prove it, but things are very consistent. I can talk about the indications, not the facts, that there has been some relationship specific, some dealing, if I may say so banally. In fact, very soon after that there was some agreement about Eulex and the fact that our government, in fact, is helping with its positive attitude to station Eulex at KIM. Prime Minister Cvetkovic was right when he said that EULEX and that the decisions on Eulex had taken place before the government came into office before it could act. That's quite true. What was missing and needed as dry water, dried bread and the EU and the United States is for the Serbian government to agree to Eulex. That's what I'm questioning right now, i.e. I see it as a negative result. It is not about what the states have recognised Kosovo, which is the EU force that has helped and everything it has done, which is what the United States is one world's absolute force that can do to anyone what it wants. We differ because we believe that Serbia should not have agreed to this, and the Serbian government has agreed to this because of some concessions. We can talk about these concessions now. What the Serbian government received in return for admitting or accepting to recognise Kosovo's independence by its acts. There, that's the result. She didn't get anything. Prime Minister Cvetkovic says EULEX has been returned to the United Nations based on the work of the Serbian government. The Security Council has decided on this, but take the text of the presidential statement, please, once again, please, or I'll have to read it myself here, not a debt, EULEX is not mentioned in the presidential statement. Secondly, the Secretary-General's report is not a legal act, it's a report like everyone else. He's just detecting facts. And that's not a very good thing about our state interests either. In fact, there is more respect for Kosovo's constitution than the functioning of the Serbian government. I say six points are there, but there are no guarantees by the Security Council that they themselves, with the help of Serbia and Serbia, will make those six points come true. It's a platform for talking to Pristina and introducing the third stage of recognition, as I said. That's what this is about. So, in the relationship of results, Serbia's legitimate diplomatic and legal action has so far come with almost zero. Or, if you will, below zero. Because until then, until the new government of Serbia, the previous government at least somehow stuck to it. She couldn't fight or wanted to. She used diplomatic funds because she had to, she used legal means, she also used some of the political resources that the government had given up. But it didn't occur to her that she was playing a game in that car, dancing in that car. So that's the difference. Approximately, the government's resonation was -- if we can't stand up to them, we'll join them. It is the biggest observation and the biggest criticism, why they joined Western forces that take away Kosovo and Metohija. There's a lot of facts about that. So, signing an SAA with 19 states or 21 at a time of ratification that has recognised Kosovo's independence. Well, the SAA isn't a trade deal, everybody knows that, it's a political agreement a couple of excellencies. His first heads are political, we have a thousand political obligations, we don't have a thousand, we have 15, but enough political obligations regarding the SAA. We are entering political obligations with countries that recognise Kosovo, therefore, is one real meta-indication in front of such a single fact. It is not an alternative to war with these countries, no one is talking about it, that is, Minister Cvetkovic led to absurdity, i.e. To banality. That's the only thing I blame him for. It's about the state showing its will, its well-intentionedness and its alternative. The alternative is, therefore, not to admit, but to talk. So not keep the channels closed, but open. Self-insulation wasn't the opposition's idea of never being a rifle or self-insulating. Who said that? Please quote one of the opposition people. No, there isn't, but there's some other policy that we can either advocate or at least show political will not to do so. By the way, we're getting into a chain wheel. If you start a positive game to play on that thing, to admit the secession of your own territory, you're going to have to end up in the most banal and defeative way. You'll have to admit it rhetorically one day, and that's for sure. Secondly, as far as European integration is concerned, I will again serve this methodology as a result so far. Maybe we'll join the European Union in 2009. I would just remind you MPs that in 2003, the Prime Minister of Serbia, in the fall of 2003, the president of the LDP parliamentary club was then in charge of European integration, the president of the government said that Serbia would join the European Union in 2007. So maybe we will, based on the same methodology and the same logic, enter the European Union in 2009. We can't talk about it, but we can talk about what's been done on that plan so far. The plan was done as follows: an agreement has been signed. The Agreement has been ratified. The agreement does not apply to one party. Fourthly, the Agreement applies one party. Total absurd. Fifthly, the Agreement applies one party, in a way that suffers direct damage. It's not that we don't need to lower customs duties on our products, or on agriculturals. Finally, this is in our national strategy for joining the European Union; and dynamics, and investing in the area of free trade and reviewing the customs policy of this country, nothing is disputed. It is disputed that the other side does not apply this agreement, because the agreement contains that we reduce or cancel customs duties, they assist the economy in order to maintain it, by not applying the Agreement, so neither does this transitional one. They're not in any kind of obligation to this country, and we're unilaterally applying it. Please, if that's the result, then I really don't know what we're talking about. Look, that's not even a zero score, that's a negative score. And if we speak in relation to the facts, which I appeal to again, we may have a dialogue, we will come to a flat foot, to equal honor as to what we say to each other and to what we listen to each other. But the facts are inexorable. That is, therefore, the most important thing why I wanted in these few sentences to respond to what the Serbian Prime Minister said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10759	Thank you, Mr. Samardzic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, applied for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, MPs of all parliamentary groups. However, I would like to give a break of an hour, and the first MP on this list is Mr Miroslav Markicevic, New Serbia. At 2:45, we'll continue our work. [[After break – 14.45]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Mr. Miroslav Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10761	President-in-Office, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, respected citizens of Serbia, I will probably be denied a round of applause at least part of the hall, since the hall is almost half-empty, but it speaks of those who are supposed to be taking part in this session. It is time for the agenda - a discussion on the government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. a vote of mistrust to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is a rare opportunity, almost unique, perhaps only in a year of party, political and congregation life, when we have the opportunity to sit before us, except when the budget is adopted, the Prime Minister and the Ministers responsible for the functioning of this country and the lives of all our citizens. I will not mention, apart from the Prime Minister, any Mr. Minister himself, that they do not understand from my discussion that I have anything personal, to try to understand that I speak well on purpose, to try to understand that this part of the assembly hall that represents the opposition, or the citizens who voted for the opposition parties now, that we are not your enemies, but just political opponents. So much more so that the whole world and our country, as part of that world and part of Europe, because long ago in the streets of Belgrade, we wore a password "Belgrade is the world", so that we are not political enemies to you, but political opponents and competitors, and that all the criticisms we bring here take note of well-meaning, not to say friendly, because I am forced to say it, given how I see the situation of our country. Gentlemen, on 11 May, some of your parties received a relatively large number of votes and then formed a government, in the way you formed it. The desire of one of the top ruling parties has long been, publicly said in the media, that it wants to build the DS government and national minorities. You did it. Not wanting to say anything bad, please understand, about my fellow MP, Riza Halimi, it turns out that the government of the Serbian state, which, I must remind you, is not ashamed to tell you that this is the state, primarily the Serbs, that is also written in the Constitution, depends on the voice of Riza Halimi, who represents the interests of the citizens who voted him and the national minorities he represents here. You are criticising the opposition as it behaves both in parliament and in public and political life, but that your media control throughout Serbia exists for one single reason, and all the rulers have been doing so since the beginning of the multi-party system in Serbia, because all the political parties that have crossed the censorship are sitting in the Assembly, and only the parties that make up the ruling coalition are sitting in the government, so to draw attention to what it is doing and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. I will remind you of several of the most important promises you have made in the election campaigns, not for 100 days of government, which every government in the world according to some good parliamentary customs has, but in six months it has not fulfilled and all perspectives speak, even from your statements, that it will not be realized. First of all, I want to remind you of the free actions you promised the citizens of Serbia. Poor people in January, although the deadline for enrollment was six months, rushed and ranks were in front of the post office. I've seen these poor people. I'm gonna say right now that I voted for that law and I don't regret voting. I trusted the minister and then the government that promised it to the citizens of Serbia. I've also seen some seriously ill people, with pumps on their mouths, recording actions, even though it could've been done by June 30th, after another month. If I were politically malignancies, they should now, from January 1st, when it comes into force, start on the G17 municipal boards, with CDs, receipts or registrations, as it is already called, start and raise two to five thousand euros, depending on how many full-aged citizens the household has, and then fine in Kragujevac to pay for the Fiat retail car. The car is now trending due to the global economic crisis, 40 euros a month, many citizens still, as a war for a bought car, can pay for it, and then well stop by the DS municipal boards, confirm their visa and free travel to Europe. So now it's clear to both you and us, and to all Serbian citizens that there's nothing going on right now, and I want to say what the perspectives are for that to happen at all. Speaking of "Fiat," what I said was that I would personally address you and take this as my personal impression. You seem like a very kind man and a good expert to me. Did you, as an economist, before you signed or announced your co-operation with the Fiat, watch the balances, I'm not an economist, but I'm so economically educated, or final accounts of the Fiat in the last five years? That company failed five years ago. It was clear to everyone by the trend of closing down factories around the world, the last time it happened in Poland, I think two factories. So that's what we claimed in the campaign, that it was just a political and marketing trick. He's proven successful and we from the opposition have to admit it here. We believed more in citizens, that they would believe more in their eyes, what we were doing, and especially Minister Ilic, as Minister of Infrastructure, but they believed in a better life, as every normal man wants for himself and his family. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Cvetkovic, do you feel guilty about privatized businesses and factories when you were the director of the Privatisation Agency? Now every day, the last is Azotara Panchevo, where one worker appears in Azotara Panchevo, who says, in all the media it was, that currently in Azotara, there is a fertilizer that is needed by our peasants, who was told by the head of the NS parliamentary group, is not working. Whether a resale, whether a 20m-euro difference was made, should be investigated by the state authorities, since, according to the latest surveys by the international organisation Transparents International, the corruption index in Serbia is growing, and an open obstruction of the work of the State Auditing Institution indicates that citizens will not be given insight into the spending of state funds and control of the government's work. Why are these factories, these companies so privatized? I'm telling you this as a man, because I was a member of the DOS then and I trusted people like you, like Mr. Vlahovic, as experts and I voted for all these laws. I have a guilty conscience. I'm trying to convince you from this speech that I don't want to speak politically or interestingly. The fact is, you're winners of the election, but what you've done. Are you sure on this European path that you can do more than the government of Vojislav Kostunica, which functioned in 2004-2006. I have a parallel to what she did the first month, the second, the third, for all three years and a few days as long as it lasted on that European path. At all, does the EU want Serbia? That's what I'm asking, honestly. What's their interest? Is there any interest in the EU in having them see us at all? What's their interest? Our interest is and undoubtedly all parties here who exist and in today's assembly of parliament are some declarative, some sincere, which is also for the assessment of political analysts, but expressed their views that they are for co-operation with the EU. What's the problem now? Their players are on stage. Their favorites. Those who supported the disgraceful, the ambassadors of the Western countries in the last days of the campaign won, whether their people are in power now. I don't mean anything by it. I mean, honestly. What do we need to do? The other day, I spoke to a Western diplomat, and they were thinking about the Serbian Parliament, and it seems to me that before some elections, they always appear and she wanted to hear opinions from all parliamentary parties, as they feel about the current situation in Serbia. We wanted to tell you, Mr. Cvetkovic, and your chief of staff, Mrs. Jovasevic, has made an appointment and we agreed to come to that conversation, and then it's canceled, and I don't know why. Maybe it's because there's only nine of us. We represent, as nine MPs, citizens of Serbia. You have to think and look after and worry, because this is the task of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of citizens who have not voted for you and who may think the worst of you, and who will come before the Government of the Republic of Serbia tomorrow or the day after that, from 2000, come from the 1990s to seek some of their rights. Do you have any idea what kind of situation our country will be in in a few months? I have a great dilemma and I ask you to understand that I am not only speaking as a politician, a MP, a representative of a party, but as a father of two underage children. If I'm worried about such a big salary compared to a lot of people who don't have any pay, as a MP, you can imagine how they feel. When, for example, the opposition suggests in September that the state's insurance guarantee to save the citizens of 3,000 euros, as it was then and still is, until Saturday's vote, there is no reaction from the government. Those people who suggested it and the parties will be ridiculed. The government will shut up. It was enough to show up on TV and say that, yes, Serbian citizens, we have enough foreign reserves, we can guarantee 50,000 euros per role each citizen of Serbia. It would certainly prevent 700-800m euros for citizens to withdraw from their savings. Do you know where they're being held? The same banks, those dumps over there and what's-his-name. That money could've been in some optics, I guess it's good, you're an economist, so it doesn't pull so fast. Why didn't you do it, I don't know. Instead of increasing wages and pensions, a decision on freezing has been made or such a decision is already being made, we see already the intentions in the budget. Instead of a better standard of living, we have a constant decline in standards. I'll say something you don't expect, and maybe this side of the opposition doesn't expect. I asked around the price of gas. It's true for nine months to form the price of gas, 60 percent, maybe it should be bigger, maybe it's economically justified, we depend. But please come out and explain why you increased your phone service 200%? Do you know who you punished here? You mean MPs who have 80,000 each, and those who have a higher salary than us, I won't mention them. The most poor poor girl, the one who had 88 dinars to pay for that TV subscription, to invite her grandkids to the studios, the one where she studied, the daughter married in another town and make another bill of 100, 150, 170 dinars. This increased the state-owned company, a public company owned by all citizens of Serbia, 200%. A company that shows great surplus and great profit, while at the same time funding professional athletes, both in our country and foreign countries. Is that okay? Is that fair? Serbia's foreign debt is said to be $30 billion. Does anyone have the authority to finally say how much this country owes, is it dollars, euros, how much do we owe? Serbia's investment rating has never been lower because of foreign investors' express mistrust with the Serbian government and its inability to provide essential conditions for their investment and their profit. If you think you can help the citizens of Serbia, no one will be able to, or the opposition, or you in power, explain to them what is so difficult to live and humiliated by the economic crisis in the world, believe you can't. The fact that for some percentage of the rating to opposition parties will jump, well, maybe we'll work better, maybe we have more time now as an opposition to improve the work of our parties. But we're gonna get more of that ratings because of the way you guys are doing it. The government does not have the capacity to continue the process of economic reforms, which is referred to by failed attempts to privatise the largest Serbian enterprises, such as JAT, RT Bor, IMT, EI Nis and "The First Five-year-old". I'd just stop at this first JAT. Did I remember correctly, and I ask the other colleagues, that as many as two years ago someone offered us 150m euros for this JAT. Did I hear that? Did I hear that right? Now that JAT won't buy anyone for a million euros. Who stopped that buy? Who is preventing important jobs for our country? Who's canceling the concession? Who's against the gas deal? Does that good, conscious or unconscious think of this country? I'm asking you to think this through. In Greece, our friendly country, what is happening there, in this day they have a much higher standard than Serbian citizens have, and you see what happens. Think about it, we have a hard spring ahead of us for all of us who do politics. You have to understand that it's your responsibility, you wanted a government like this, you took responsibility and you have to work. I want to say one thing to you, Madam President, and you will understand why I don't want to address someone who's been talking to this payphone since they've been honoring us for six months, since you've been holding almost all the media, except for the public service as it is, that we're obstructing the National Assembly. Just to remind you, your MP group, if you believe "Politics", the vice president is there, she even more believes "Politics" because the editor of "Politics" is your sympathiser, as far as I can see, read today's front page, and you will see that a member of the ruling coalition has reported many times more than New Serbia according to the Rules of Procedure. So we didn't obstruct the work of the Assembly. Even now, we will not submit much of the amendments, as well as those we have submitted and adopted here and which are part of the law, I guess the amendments submitted by the opposition are also being ignored and not implemented in action. I'm going to say again, Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic, it's not her fault. Please think about everything I'm saying. I speak out of my heart and soul, although some ministers, who are not present, would laugh, but they are politically naive. Believe me, I'm not naive. There is great dissatisfaction in the people, which could explode and our country would be in danger. Don't make fun of the people who fought for our country, as they knew, they think they're right. People say, if you took my grandfather's money, if I don't want to send my kids to get killed for that country, because I can't, because I don't have enough kids, I'm not signing that paper to be yours. If the Iraqis, occupied by 150,000 tyrants, can stand up and show dignity, both human, national and state, so we Serbs can tell them -- no more, no more, no more, what should we do? What does this government have to do, both ours and yours and all the previous ones? I want to warn you of something, a man who led this country until 2000, his delusions, his stubbornness, perhaps lack of tolerance, paid the most, paid with his life. That's one side of the medal. The other side of the medal, Mr Cvetkovic, that all Serbian citizens paid. Please think about it before you go to the next election and call your election list again - for European Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10762	The word is by MP Konstantin Arsenovic, followed by MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10763	Mr. Prime Minister, the honourable ministers, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the PUPS and I personally support the government. We are convinced that they will respect the interests of all pensioners and socially endangered citizens, i.e. to lead a socially responsible policy. As long as that's the case, they'll have our support. I must support Mr. Palma's exposure and exempt MPs from the opposition from this discussion since 2000. We seem to have come yesterday on October 5th and as if all the problems have arisen since the formation of this government. It's not Kosovo since yesterday. It's not a privatisation since yesterday. It's not The Hague since yesterday. Not everyone else's yesterday's problems. They were born much earlier, when you were in the government and you were in charge of this country's politics. From there, I think it would be least correct to say - for this condition we also bear a partial responsibility, not just to move hot potatoes to the current position and to the current government and ask them to have a magic wand to solve all problems. That's impossible. There's no responsibility to amnesty. Many problems have been created in the past, and from the point of view of my party, I will not get into deeper problems, but I will point out. In this period, over 35 different mafias were created, from bankruptcy, travellers, where one minister said, expected people to steal, not steal, etc. All this needs to be solved, gentlemen, and found a solution to such matters. When it comes to pensioners' problems, I also want to remind you that pension system laws were adopted and brought in at a time when part of the opposition was in power, when these laws were declared genocide by many. Now that we are in the phase of solving pensioners' problems, raising their standards, there is again justification and criticism that nothing has been done, that we continue to do nothing, etc. The truth is quite different, to remind you, those promises we made when we entered this coalition were largely realized. It is clear that we cannot expect our party to keep our promises only blindly, without respecting what the Prime Minister said, we did not know about many things, especially when it comes to the emerging economic crisis. On certain examples, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister and the Minister two or three questions that I would like to point out are also caused by the previous government. The first problem, it is 65 military pensioners, who have lost their pensions from the moment Montenegro was separated from Serbia, and thanks to the regulations and behaviour of the government of Montenegro, because they did not have a permanent stay in Montenegro, they took them off the record. Serbia did not accept them, so they are practically sentenced to silent dying, perhaps that is a mild word, because they do not have the means to live. Yesterday was an attempt to negotiate with the government of Montenegro to resolve the problem. He's not solved. Unfortunately, Montenegro refused. Therefore, I ask the Prime Minister and all ministers, it is about our citizens, citizens, who have not only spent their working lives in Montenegro but throughout the former Yugoslavia, to find a solution for them. There is one favorable circumstance that the Republic Health Fund has accepted these people for medical care, so at least this problem is solved. On the other hand, I recognize the understanding of this problem, so at least we've partially solved one problem, so people at least have safe health care; it's about old sick people. The next problem, which is also the result of previous governments, is a debt to military pensioners. To remind many, the defence ministry's regulation of 1 August and October 2004 has seen changes in certain coefficients when pensions are calculated. However, there has been a dispute, so the debt has now grown to 4.5 billion. If the problem had been immediately resolved and accepted in 2004, the 4.5 billion would not have been long now. It's not only the 4.5 billion problem, but in the meantime, interest rates have increased. There's about 20,000 lawsuits, court costs. So the total debt exceeds 6.5 billion. It's now in this economic situation for this government, I suppose, a big problem. I ask the Government, the Ministry and the Ministers to seriously consider this problem. I know that a working group has been formed, that it has proposed this solution, that the proposal is in the Ministry of Finance, but we do not have a final view on it yet. This item has not entered the budget for the following year or in terms of debt or resolution. I think we need to take a stand on him and be clear how this debt will be resolved. In that sense, I ask you to consider this, to define this problem and thus make it clear. I think we could have avoided the costs of the trial only that the relevant authorities had defined and said it would be dealt with. However, it remained unclear and this debt, which has grown in those four years, continues to grow, but do not forget to grow and interest on debt, and it will only increase, rather than shrink. I'd remind you, the Department of Defense has about 20,000 outstanding housing problems. I would like to point out that among these 20,000 housing problems, there are about 5,000 pensioners, about two and a half thousand pensioners who have escaped from the secluded republics and that they practically live in collective accommodations, with a uncertain future, and they are not treated as such. The particular problem I insist on here as government commitments is the issue of pensions from seceded republics, property in seclusive republics, for people who have escaped from those republics. I can't help but look back at some discussions of opposition colleagues who used to be in power, and especially a colleague from the DSS, who now, when it comes to pensions, criticises them in every way possible. I want to remind them that in the coalition negotiations, which Mr Ilic clearly once said, they were not interested in pensioners and did not want to accept any conditions regarding improving the status of pensioners in Serbia. With what right they expect and have the right to criticise any solution the coalition and the government have taken to resolve the status of all pensioners and socially endangered citizens. This government realised first that the genocide of pensioners had been stopped. We've fulfilled the 10% increase promise. In Belgrade, about 70,000 socially endangered citizens whose incomes are below 13,000 will receive social compensation, receive assistance from 4,000 quarterly, and this is a big deal, not only in Belgrade, but in other places I suppose we will solve in a similar way, as well as all other problems when it comes to housing for the elderly, for the disabled, etc. Surely that's impossible to solve overnight. It's one process we have to endure and for that reason, if the government supports it, if it accepts it, it's logical for us to support it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10764	The right to replication, based on mentioning, has a National MP, Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10765	Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, it's nice to listen to the discussion of a man who's been blamed by some earlier, some not even alive, they're all blamed by others, but these days they're nothing. Krkobic has made no promises, nothing is guilty, his son is not a functioner and not to speak any further. I'm mentioned here that I made one statement, 'I know you're stealing a little bit, but brothers you steal a lot, half with the state. '"I stand behind it, my dear. When your friends were in power, they implanted tolls in the software. The defendant was the one who made the software. What happened? The theft was so great, when I received the authority of the toll minister was 76m euros a year, when I handed over my duty to collect it was 210m euros a year, without increasing, we only followed inflation once. Imagine now how much was stolen, why did it stop and who stole the paperwork from the police and the papers, and why did the paperwork go missing and the procedure was suspended? Well, when you saw who was behind it. One gentleman here this morning was talking about justice, about honesty, and he criticized everything, and I ask him, freshman one, how many of your trucks do you have driving for the Serbian government and working for the Serbian Ways? Fifteen years you worked for the SPS, for JUL, for all governments. Gentlemen, how many previous officials have made the construction and travel companies that today are the biggest performers and now? Where is the director of the former "Road of Serbia" from the yellow flock? He's got a big personal company today. How could he register it when the law wasn't allowed? Who did the most work for Telekom? Who won over 80% of the tender for Telekom? What party is it from, gentlemen? Is everything okay in the tenders? How to get so many jobs. It's a little bit of you to ask, and then talk about something that's very important. Who works most in Belgrade, whose companies? Whose companies are performers for the government and for the city of Belgrade? Mine's not safe, I don't have any. You know that, gentlemen. A gentleman here yesterday who talked about justice and honesty, he's as the official of this government and the leader of the political party smuggling with dozens of trucks that have been working for years, and these tolls can't charge him anything, and do they owe him any money? He's getting paid in advance, gentlemen. We will come out here one day with all this data and bring it all out: whose hotels across Serbia were bought in privatisation, who bought a hotel in Sokobanja, who is the boss? Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, if you didn't know, let me tell you. Thank you. (Dragan Todorovic, from the O.R.: Who is this thief? )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10766	The word has an MP, Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10767	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, we are voting today on the mistrust of the Government, but I would like first to clarify which government we are talking about, whether we are talking about the real government or whether we are talking about the marketing government. If we look at marketing, everything is ideal in Serbia, if we look at reality, it's very bad in Serbia. Marketing when we listen to ministers from this government, we get 200,000 jobs, we get billions of foreign investments, pensioners get 70 percent of the average salary, wages are increased in all sectors of the economy, and, of course, all citizens get 1,000 euros in shares. In reality, this government has not fulfilled any pre-election promises. I am sorry for the citizens of Serbia, but in this case marketing this government was more important than its essence. This is, let me just repeat, the biggest government. That's what I said after the Prime Minister's exposé. The government, with ministers, with 62 state secretaries and 42 advisers, has 130 members. Soon the government could re-vote us here in the congregation as many as there are. And today it was very difficult for all the ministers, and not everyone came, to find places in these benches, so they squeezed. To get back to the point. Prime Minister Cvetkovic, who I normally respect, said in his first and only address to the assembly that this government should be "judged solely by facts rather than prejudices". That's what I've been doing. I'm gonna talk about facts here. First of all, I want to say that because of these facts, I will vote for mistrust with the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as our entire coalition. Here's the facts. The government has done nothing to improve the country's economy and citizens' living standards. No promise has been fulfilled. It has been promised 1,000 euros from free shares to all Serbian citizens -- citizens have been cheated. Pensions have been promised to be at 70 per cent of the average wage – citizens have been cheated. Salaries are promised, salaries are not increased – citizens are deceived. It has been promised if this coalition wins and if it forms a government, that it will come, push foreign investments, the citizens are deceived. Fiat has been promised to bring in a billion euros in investment and to bring in tens of thousands of jobs, which is not there, and citizens have been deceived there. It has been promised that by the end of the year, by December 31st, visas for the European Union will be lifted, unfortunately, and that's where the citizens are deceived. In addition, the government is making a decision that is self-initiative, I would say politically to hand it over to the European Union, starting unilaterally to apply the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The moment people in Serbia lose their jobs, when the economy and production in Serbia stop, we decide to make concessions, which none of us have asked for, to producers from the European Union. Simply, at this point, it will cost the citizens of the Republic of Serbia nearly three hundred million euros. That money could be invested in domestic economy, help those companies that are really living today, where people are on the border to be fired, to stop companies completely, and thus help these companies get out of the economic crisis. Of course, to add that this government, of course, is not only the prime minister's fault, because the prime minister is only the first among the levels, and this is part of a major coalition agreement, shaken by internal disagreements over the realisation of the gas agreement, because some ministers are for a gas deal, some are not. We don't know what's going on. Let me start with the facts. One -- the government said at the beginning of the mandate that Europe has no alternative. Except for the Hague ultimatum we all hear about, we got nothing else. I must say that if marketing passes in Serbia at least once, this marketing does not pass in Europe. We need to make a serious state, have strong and stable institutions, rule of law, have a real economic policy that needs to function as a domestic economy and preserve jobs. The priority should be to preserve jobs next year. I have to say, it's all picked up. They promised there would be no gatherings, and that's where the citizens are deceived. He picked up the gas by 60%, the phone subscription three times, the meat went up by more than 22%. I wouldn't call that a socially responsible government. I'd use some other terms. But as for the socially responsible government -- they froze next year's pensions, they frozen public sector salaries, reduced subsidies, economic growth won't be seven percent, as promised, but there will be three percent, left to freeze and the citizens, to welcome them to solve these problems, and then to freeze us. We don't have three lives to wait until this government decides to fulfill all its coalition appetites. Serbia needs an effective government that can solve economic problems during the worst economic crisis. As far as subsidies are concerned, agricultural subsidies have been reduced, reduced in the social sphere, tourism, social enterprises. I have to say, agriculture is our biggest exporter. Today we employ more than five hundred thousand people in agriculture. She never got agriculture from the government, any government, how much she gave. And now that all European countries are going to subsidize their agricultural producers, we are reducing subsidies by 25%. We will have a terrible problem in Serbia soon. By applying a unilateral agreement, we will simply destroy our agriculture. There will be no protection, to inform citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for farmers, for almost 40% of agricultural products, for seed wheat, for sugar beet, for all live animals and for pure breeding, for vegetables, for strawberries and the like. In addition, in Slovenia and Hungary subsidies are three times bigger than in our country, and we are reducing ours and not paying them regularly. Not to mention the indirect losses that will be, because all the European countries that work properly will subsidize their producers, who will soon flood our market with dumped prices, as their governments help them, will destroy our domestic agriculture. I simply don't see any sense in these completely inadequate measures that have been taken in the framework of agriculture. Also, to add that today, I already said, we didn't go on the white Schengen list, as promised on 31.12, we're probably not going to be in 2009, probably later. Again, the marketing governments do not pass in Europe. Of course, let's get back to the point and say where all the citizens are being cheated. An increase in pension levels has been promised 70% of the average salary. Pensions increased by 10% this year, but linearly. In this way, those who have large pensions, their addition, their increase will be greater than those of the poorest pensioners. The government's vice president will have a bigger pension increase than some people's total pension. I just don't know how the poorest layer of citizens, pensioners, will live next year. The next major deception is the distribution of a thousand-euro free stock. It's a five million-nation fraud of the Republic of Serbia, as it has been promised to get that money from the sale of Yat, Telekom, Aerodroma, Galenika, etc. I simply think that this government will have a great responsibility to explain to the citizens that what they promised in the pre-election campaign and in the formation of the government will not have. Also, new investments and new jobs were promised. It's a hoax again. Instead of opening jobs, we separate from the budget, especially in rebalancing, into non-productive areas: subsidies to failed companies, public sector wages, and ski resorts are also subsidized. I think these ski resorts will be just a sledgehammer for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. No one cares about the domestic economy. No one told us what would happen to the electronic industry, what would happen to Magnochrom, "The First Five-year-old", "Viskoza" etc., and not to talk about hitching a certain excellent contract on the Horgos-Požega concession. The next contract is the state and Fiat contract, the alleged 700m-euro Fiyat investment and 10,000 jobs. I will quote the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia who said -- Serbia will receive 800m euros in next year and the total investment of Fiat will be a billion euros. It's a source of my website from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I am informing you that out of these 800 million, mentioned by the Prime Minister, there will be nothing in next year. In a contract with Fiat, Fiat will only invest, if at all, 200m euros, but in equipment that does not have to be new because it is not precise. There's one big problem about Fiat. We shouldn't be against Fiat. Fiat is welcome here, and we don't need 700 million. Fiat should be welcomed with bread and salt if he invests 1m euros. But another problem is that we have not seen this business plan, where the Republic of Serbia will directly and indirectly invest 250m euros next year. There's no business plan. When I asked why there was no business plan, they said it was a commercial secret. Let's remember what they were doing with Horgos - Pozega, with the concession agreement, everyone said it should be transparent. Why can the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the MPs, the Committee on Industry and others not know the business plan, see when the money will be returned? No student in the exam would pass if he signed a contract without a clear business plan, where there is a clear return on investment, where all risks were analysed. I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to publish a business plan on the website. When a business plan isn't published, it means something's hiding, and it's probably hiding a lot. Also, tens of thousands of jobs have been promised. I must say, Zastava will employ 2,400 workers, but not immediately, but by 2012. The bigger problems are the second, the production in the flag has been stopped. Someone got smart, stopped production at the flag, the workers were sent on vacation, and the Fiat didn't come. The big question is - will our friends from the "Fiyat" in this economic crisis have the opportunity to come to Serbia? It is logical that the Government of Italy, as a responsible government, will do everything possible to help the Fiat to raise it, but to create jobs in Italy, not in Serbia. Time will show that this contract with the Fiat, which was presented as a business of the century, is directly or indirectly threatened by the international crisis, but was only a major marketing trick in the pre-election campaign. I'm only sorry about the citizens of Kragujevac and those workers who have been promised jobs. As far as the gas agreement is concerned, I've talked a lot about this agreement, it's the best agreement the Republic of Serbia has signed in the last 50 years, it has become a law by ratification, but there is another problem -- why has the Serbian government voted at a cabinet meeting differently? Have any ministers tried to tear down this agreement? Will the ministers now, after this, come out of the government if they voted against probably the most important contract Serbia has signed? The gas agreement is no ordinary contract, and when you disagree with your colleagues in the government, it is a moral act to resign. But there's another message we send to investors when government ministers argue over the best gas deal. This government does not only not keep its promises to the citizens, but the government does not fulfil its obligations to other countries either. I was talking about promises and delusions. Now I'd like to say something about the biggest economic crisis that has rocked the world. The government has no clear agenda to get out of this economic crisis. The government has forgotten the domestic economy. Except for the verbal messages, we didn't hear anything else. We spoke in this assembly that it was necessary to form crisis management. We formed some crisis committee at the Serbian government, we don't even know who it is. England has formed a national council for exiting the crisis, where representatives of the government, representatives of parliament, representatives of the economy, representatives of the union, all participants in the process and meet regularly to analyse the measures taken by the government and make concrete proposals. Unfortunately, we have not taken this crisis seriously, and we are the only country in the environment that has yet to bring concrete measures. The only measures we've heard are that it's going to be tightening the belt, but I don't know whose neck it is. We need programs, concrete programs, not some outdated metaphors about belt tightening. Investments are needed, concrete measures are needed and concrete incentives are needed for our economy. I would like to add, we said, the prime minister also stepped forward, as he said, we should show solidarity. It's a new principle that I haven't seen yet, but I think this government needs to show creativity and show, as a minimum, respect and respect for the National Assembly, to do something, to bring home the domestic economy. We act like we're on a desert island as far as economic measures are concerned. In the end, I would say that this government, not by the will of the Prime Minister, but by the will of coalition partners, is made up as a marriage of interest. There are left and right and party centers. There are parties of different political and economic orientations. There are parties that have different historical heritage and goals. The least common denominator of these so many different parties is the naked power. The unity of this government does not exist, but there are only individual party and personal interests to survive as long as possible. A government like this should not trust citizens, such a government will bring citizens to become its hostages. We will all present collateral damage to a government that, due to its coalition interests and to the satisfaction of these interests, does not function as a domestic economy and its citizens. That's why this government needs to leave as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10768	People's MPs who ask for a word, wanting to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, will not get a word, because there were no violations of the Rules of Procedure. Please be quiet. The discretionary right of the chairman is that he gives people's MPs the right to replication and the right to replication can be given by Article 101, given that someone has misread, that he has spoken offensively, and the rest. Is your basis for replication? I ask the People's Messengers to pay attention to the MP who seeks the right to reply. The right to a replica has the president of your parliamentary group whenever he wishes, and you want to explain that false information has been presented. Here you go, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10769	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we don't know where this man came from. All I know is that what's heard of this government of the Republic of Serbia is just incredible, and that's what those people who were here until yesterday say and there's nothing to blame for what they're saying to this government, and then these world records are because they've been able to make all this wonder they've heard about in six months. There's nothing worse than saying something you don't understand at all. I'd like you to come to Kragujevac, so first you can see how you've been in the election, since you've done well, that you've barely passed the vote, since the sets worked well, and that we won an absolute majority, because we worked in Kragujevac. In Kragujevac there will be "Fiat", although it is difficult for you, these investments will be invested in Kragujevac, even though it is difficult for you. I know that you and then you will say something ugly about those who are in power, because they will still be there. You've been bothered by a man who's not in my party all along, that's Mr. Dinkic. That's your goal all the time. You don't want this story for a story. You're always bothered by someone who has a vision, who has power, who can hold onto something hot. Yes, it is. So it bothers you that in Kragujevac the current budget is bigger than the Norwegian budget, and it was twice as small four years ago. You have a problem with everything that's advanced in Kragujevac. Since it bothers you, you can say whatever you want, but what happens will happen, and it won't just be "Fiat." Don't speak in the future, because if you wanted to tell the truth, you'd say what's in the contract, so you'd say what's in the next one, then the next one's in the year, and you wouldn't be talking about the eye, the way you talk. Speaking of agriculture, one simple question-- where were you six months ago? The Kragujevac has all the time agrarian budget, which is 120 million dinars for this year. Imagine that you in your government had a close budget. It is, sir, false and many things you will hear only in the replicas or discussions of our MPs. If we are the subject of this session, you are not well, because this government and the vision of this government is such that nothing is worth the story to you. You've received as many MPs as you've received, but remember, next time you won't have any.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10770	The word has a foreign minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Vuk Jeremic. You have no right to replicate. No injured Rules of Procedure. The MP received a replica and used it. National MP Veroljub Stevanovic was granted the right to replication. He didn't get the right to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. People's MP, please take your place. You'll get your word when you give the foundation for the replica. Here, take your seat. Please do not disturb the speakers and the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10771	Dear People's MPs, I'd like to answer some of the questions the opposition MPs have asked here. However, the main topic of today's debate is the situation in Kosovo, the reconfiguration of the international civilian presence in the province and the country's relationship to what I believe may be the most important state issue of this country, which is the issue of defence of constitutional order, the issue of defence of sovereignty and the territorial integrity of our country. 2008 was a year of great challenges. I would say the most dramatic year of political transition in Serbia. I am extremely pleased, because from that year on, we come out stronger, or we come out, showing the whole world that we are a mature democratic society that is able to endure the most difficult blows and that by defending democracy, by defending the law, by defending the constitution, is able to refuse and hit the hardest. In 2008, we survived a direct attack on Serbia's constitutional order. We survived an attempt to secession our territory, survived an illegal declaration of independence by Kosovo institutions on February 17th this year. Serbia reacted peacefully to this attempt to collapse the constitutional order, reacted diplomatically and reacted legally, reacted politically and thus made the Balkan history precedent. Not only the recent Balkan history, but I would say at all in Balkan history, which is that to this challenge, to this kind of provocation, a worldwide blow corresponds to this kind of blow, corresponds diplomatically and corresponds to its right to sovereign state and membership in the institutions of the international community. My opinion is that the previous Serbian government and this Serbian government, which faced this challenge, responded quite well, strongly, clearly, unwaveringly. The policy passed by by the government, when it comes to KIM, is a policy that this government is also implementing in action. So our Kosovo policy is a policy of full continuity. The very basis of this policy is the use of all legal, political and diplomatic means to defend the country's constitutional order. The most important step we took in the international arena in 2008 is our performance at the UN General Assembly. Since we have chosen to defend Kosovo by international law, we have decided to transfer this battle to the arena of international law, i.e. the International Court of Justice. In order to do so, we had to get the support of the entire world, that is, most of the United Nations member states should have stood behind Serbia in this attempt to defend the constitutional order and territorial integrity of the entire country by means of legal means. Although many have been skeptical about it, although many have felt that this is not possible, the previous government and this government have done everything in their power to gain the majority. We have received a majority in the General Assembly and will now consider before the International Court of Justice the issue of secession attempts by part of the sovereign country's territory. In defence of Serbia's national interests, we have achieved something more. This is the first time in the history of the International Court of Justice that the International Court of Justice has considered the issue of secession of a part of the territory of a sovereign state. And as the Court of Justice decides in this case, it will be a precedent for all other cases in the 21st century. We set the matter up so that now and before the International Court of Justice, if we can also count on the support of the vast majority of the United Nations member states. We will continue to do so in the future. The second major challenge we face is the question of reconfiguring international civilian presence in our southern province. The reconfiguration began illegally, without the UN Security Council's mandate, and after the formation of the new government on July 7th, we found ourselves in a very difficult position. The reconfiguration process began without Serbia's consent. The reconfiguration process began in a way that EULEX practically spreads across the part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia without a Security Council decision, with the mandate to implement Ahtisaari's plan and with the goal of building independent institutions so-called. The Republic of Kosovo. That, of course, was totally unacceptable for Serbia. For this government, it's totally unacceptable. I am also convinced that any act that directly destroys the constitutional order of our country will not be acceptable to any future government of Serbia. That's why we entered into negotiations. We have engaged diplomaticly with representatives of the international community, and the result is, in my opinion, more than good.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10772	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, but for technical and business reasons, I have to inform the MPs that we will be working after 18 hours, until the end of the only agenda we have. That's what we have to do, according to the Rules of Procedure, by 16 o'clock. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10773	Thank you, Madam President. The result of our diplomatic efforts is the following - the reconfiguration is confirmed in the Security Council, in an explicit way the international civilian presence has committed itself to status neutrality under the auspices of the UN and with full respect for Resolution 1244. Resolution 1244 guarantees Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity. The reconfiguration of international civilian presence does not undermine Serbia's constitutional order, and that was not easy to achieve. Negotiations were tough. At some point, it threatened to break those negotiations. At some point, there was a danger that the international community would put before us a condition that was impossible for this country. That's not what happened. We have fought for a reconfiguration that confirms Serbia's policy towards Kosovo, a reconfiguration based on Resolution 1244, which does not affect Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity. That's what we got 15 votes for in the Security Council. Countries that have recognised Kosovo, countries that have not recognised Kosovo, all countries have stood behind the reconfiguration in the Security Council. I think at that point it was the best that could be achieved, our red line was the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and we did not cross that red line. Mr Samardzic and other opposition MPs mentioned the statements of certain EU officials, officials of EU member states, saying that EULEX is one or the other, that it is not statusual, that he is there to implement Ahtisaari's plan. I could quote a statement here that says the opposite. There are EU officials, there are officials from EU member states who say exactly the opposite. What do you expect from representatives of countries that have recognised Kosovo? They've been trying so far, and they'll try to break us in the future, force Kosovo's independence. It's our job to fight it. Our strength is not great. We're not a superpower. We are one small country that uses all the legal institutes and all the diplomatic resources it has in the international arena to defend its territory, to defend its constitution, to defend its historical right. But the strongest weapon we have in that defense, and that's where I want to address you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, the strongest weapon we have is state unity. Without state unity, I don't believe we're gonna make it in this fight. It's a great force against us, and if we're not as unique as we've been before, I'm not sure we'll be able to be successful in continuing this fight. Every previous government, every previous assembly has become united when it comes to this issue, the question of KIM, this one has to do as well. If there is no unity, we will fail whatever policy it is. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is power in this country and there is opposition. It's normal for the opposition to criticise the government and that's totally fine. However, when it comes to Kosovo, when it comes to this historic, state, national, some and spiritual issues, we must have unity and that opposition should support power. Every time up until now, the opposition has supported power. We won the elections, we got the majority, we got the right to create this country's policy, and we ask you for solidarity, we ask you for support on only one issue, and that's the question of Kosovo. Criticize us for everything else, and as far as Kosovo is concerned, help us create a policy. I think this debate is good, I think it's fruitful, I think we can take a lot out of the criticism you've given us today. We are ready to talk to you, we are ready to receive any criticism, we are ready to formulate a policy on Kosovo in agreement with you, but ultimately, it is the government that makes the policy. Please support us and stand behind a unique platform that aims to preserve the constitutional order of this country. Kosovo cannot be preserved without the Democrats, nor without the Radicals, nor without the Progressives, nor without the People's Party, nor the Socialists, nor the Minorities, nor any other Party, G17 and all other parties in this Assembly. We must be unique. Trust us, we defend the constitutional order, we defend it as best we can, we defend it by diplomatic means, we have achieved some tangible results. Could we have done better? We probably are. Anyone can do better. But, please, support us, because without the support of the whole of Serbia, Kosovo will not be defended. Criticize, we'll receive criticism, we'll consider criticism, but in the end we need unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10774	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is Mr Samardzic, as a representative of the proposing point. Please, the right to a replica on behalf of the parliamentary group has exclusively the heads of the parliamentary groups and will therefore receive Mr. Todorovic and Mr. Jovanovic's word. Please, you have to sit down. Please, you don't have a word. Please, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know that you have the right to a replica if the MP has said something that is offensive, the minister said. On behalf of the parliamentary group, the president may speak. The way Verko got his word, I don't know. You'll get your word, Mr. Aligrudic and you. Let the promoter say what he has to say first. Here you go, Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10775	For this promise, the president of the National Assembly, I will take the floor, because it is really the turn of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Popovic has the right to reply and I think that's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10776	Mr. Samardzic, when you chair, then you will be responsible for holding the session. Please allow me to conduct the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10777	All right. I just expressed my discomfort that I stopped for this pay phone instead of Mr Popovic. I've been meaning to say so much, and thank you. So I'm going to react briefly to what the foreign minister was saying and start with what he's done with, and that's the appeal for state unity. Namely, that's one story that doesn't hold water, which is an empty story. The state unity around KiM was being built for a while, one time even gave some results, didn't last for a while, for at least two years, and then it split up. The challenge the EU has put Serbia on has spread. The EU, not saying what I say, but giving such a sign, said to Serbia - either Kosovo or the EU. One part of the government has been defined for Kosovo, and one part of the government has been defined for the EU and so it has spread. That really needs to be said something very specific. In fact, we in this congregation did not have the opportunity for four months to adopt a resolution on KIM. From the end of 2005 to about 2007, this assembly adopted five resolutions on KIM, and with very decent majority, from 200 to 220 MPs. It really illustrates a state unity. However, we have a situation that we cannot adopt a resolution, that the ruling majority is exhibiting the resolution twice and is withdrawing it, that the minister is trying, post-festum, though, to agree to other parliamentary clubs to accept the text of the resolution and it is not working. I'll tell you why. Only because the ruling majority did everything in the text of that resolution not to find one word and one thing, and that is Eulex. There's a KIM minister and we've talked about it a few times, he can confirm or deny what I'm saying. There's a rabbit in that bush. The problem, therefore, is that they concentrate around Eulex and it doesn't matter what anyone talks about but what they do. This government has one, so to speak, politics seems. It gives one façade of everything it does, especially in terms of relations with the international KIM community. There's a big story going around and there's a big store behind that story. The relationship between the story and the store is diametrically opposite. So, it is said that Kosovo will never be betrayed, that sovereignty and territorial integrity of Serbia will be maintained, etc., and that it is working on negotiations with representatives of the international community or specifically said Western forces, which only ask Serbia to give a good positive sign, a green light, for what they do to KIM. What they're doing on KIM, it's quite clear, I don't think we have to convince anyone here. They've come up with a plan for KIM independence. They started acting on that plan without the Security Council's approval. They've already brought the predecessor of the Eulex mission. The Security Council refused to accept Ahtisaari's plan in 2007. They've already put Serbia ahead of a final act and Serbia really couldn't do anything about it. I don't think that Serbia has had any chance of doing anything concrete against the unilateral acts of Western forces, against this feta complete policy. What Serbia has done, and which it has not dared to do, and that is the replica of Minister Jeremic, is that it has actually begun to accept this game and that policy, and to accept both actions, and proposals and documents, moreover, where it is actually given approval for what Western forces are doing. So that's quite clear. I also ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Public Relations, Government and NGOs to announce the presidential statement to our public at last, to see what guarantees we have for what we've been looking for. It is said -- the reconfiguration of Unmik started without Serbia participating, so Serbia is now participating with the Security Council's approval. Let's see that approval, please. Is there any line on Eulex? Is that where Eulex is mentioned? Eulex is not mentioned here at all. Are those famous six points mentioned? There's no mention of six points, six points are part of that report by Ban Ki Moon. That report, as I just said, has no legal force. It's just a list of facts and nothing else. The report also found an annex of the Albanian side, the same six sentences they say: "We do not accept neither the Resolution, nor the Eulex, nor the UN, are only important to us in the United States, the EU and NATO." So that's what we got. I want to tell you that we didn't get anything. It's this big negotiating game that the foreign minister repeats the story again, like we're reading a newspaper and watching TV. So again, it paints with pink colors of the facade behind which there is one clear thing -- EULEX stationed in Kosovo and Metohija a week before the Serbian government approved it. A week before that, our public was told that Unmik would stay in Serbian environments in police, justice, customs, etc. Unmik, gentlemen, has moved out of Kosovo and Metohija. Unmik handed over his responsibilities, both reserved and special, from Resolution 1244 to the Interim Institutions, so he transferred them, based on Marty Ahtisaari's plan and Kosovo's institutions, until they made that constitution. There are a few dozen Unmichael's officers left, who need to play some continuity here with Unmika. Unmik is retreating. There will be several officers left, and specifically in the six-point plan for customs duties, it specifically stands: Unmichael's customs officer will arrive at the administrative crossing 1 and 31, and will operate under Unmichael's regulations, but that will be valid 60 days after the customs officers arrive. Read those documents. So, please, issue a presidential statement. If you find it hard to convince a newspaper to publish the entire Ban Ki Moon report, publish those points that actually cover that six-point program. So it's another scam. That's our main problem. It is not a problem that Serbia is weak, weak and powerless to resist what is happening to it. It's about looking it in the eye and seeing what we can do, see if we can and how we can resist it. If we're talking about not capitulating, then we shouldn't be doing it. We do not need to do this to the people or to the public behind us, by step by step, by meeting the conditions of the US and the EU, by accepting these various initiatives: the SAA, EULEX, good neighbourly relations with Kosovo and Metohija. They're art. 15, 16 and 17. SSP. We're gonna have to fill that out. That's what they're warning us about. What we're quoting as foreign statesmen is just an illustration of what we're saying. May Minister Jeremic quote an important British, French or German statesman who has said something in favor of us, who has not confirmed that Eulex is Marty Ahtisaari or that Kosovo is not independent. They cannot do so for the simple reason they have recognised Kosovo and Metohija. It's the most elementary fact. Can we hide it from the people? Can we hide from the people the fact that we do not cooperate with these countries but we conclude very long-term, complex and far-reaching interstate contracts? That's what it's all about, gentlemen. Don't hide what you're doing, it's the only message I've got right now from this place. You do it openly and don't fake things with phrases to discuss such important things. The facts are known even though you don't publish them, the facts are known even though you control the press and the media that can't publish it. Here's my test. Have any media release a presidential statement, any media for the next day or two publish six points in Ban Ki Moon's report, and we'll open a public discussion about it. That's my question. In the end, status neutrality. So, one phrase that is unsustainable from the point of view of our country's interest. No UN mission that comes to Serbia's soil, to its part that is internationally recognised, in Kosovo and Metohija, can be status neutral. It's a practical denial of Resolution 1244. We know that they are not status neutral, but they are very statusally biased. They came here to establish Kosovo's status as an independent state. So it's clear as one and one = two. Just starting from these premises, we can talk openly and build this famous state unity. I don't mind, I am, but not closing my eyes to facts, but looking those facts right in the eye.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10778	Thank you, Mr. Samardzic. There's a word Mr. Vuk Jeremic, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10779	Thank you, Madam President, thank you, Mr Samardzic. I'd like to explain a few things from my presentation. I will start with the fact that the state unity is marred by Serbia being put ahead of the election: Kosovo or the EU, and that one number of parties, parties, MPs, however you wish, is defined for Kosovo and the other for Europe. Mr. Samardzic, I don't think you're right about that. I am prepared to receive criticism and I am ready to listen and take into account a lot of what you just said, but one thing not, and that is that this government has been defined when it comes to Kosovo or the EU. The government has no right, I am deeply convinced and no Serbian government would have the right to define itself on this issue. No Serbian government would have the right to give up Kosovo and Metohija, as it is set out in the Constitution. Some government may be able to give up the European future, because it is not drawn in the Constitution, but this government will not. This will not do so under any circumstances, as the only prosperous future for both Serbia and the Western Balkans is the future in the EU. As we will never, under any circumstances, deny the defence of the constitutional order, which implies defending the territorial integrity and sovereignty of this country over the entire territory. That's our platform, that's our priority when it comes to foreign policy, we're not giving it up. I can tell you that as far as Ban Ki Moon's report is concerned, he's a public report and you can find him in a public domain on the Internet. As far as the president's statement is concerned, it's also public. Now I'm going to give you a copy of that presidential statement, so you put it in the paper. He's public, you could have put him in the paper before. The Security Council supported the reconfiguration of the international civilian presence in the province because Serbia said the red line is that any international mission in Kosovo and Metohija must behave in such a way as not to affect the Serbian Constitution, not to violate Resolution 1244. Eulex is now being moved to Kosovo under the auspices of the UN, with full respect for Resolution 1244, Mr Samardzic, you can read that, you have read it in the beginning and read in point 50 of the Secretary-General's report. Once again, the British, German, French statements did not mention officials, of course they are not such as to cite water on the mill of what we want to achieve when it comes to Kosovo, because they have recognised Kosovo. But what are we supposed to do now? We should work with those countries that have not recognised Kosovo within the EU and within the framework of international institutions, to put clips in the wheels of that great force that has been turned against us, and we will not do so by bickering in this assembly and honoring each other and accusing each other of de facto recognition of Kosovo. You're saying we shouldn't sign any contracts, state contracts with Britain, France, Germany. How do you think we should be a prosperous country living geographically on Europe's continent of Europe without signing contracts with Germany, Britain and France? That's what we have to do. We must do so in such a way that it does not enter into the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country. Just as your previous government in which you were not doing it, this government will not take a single step that could result in the collapse of this country's constitutional order. We miss you, Mr. Samardzic. We need you on the negotiating team. We need you all on the negotiating team. We must be unique when we defend Kosovo. How do you plan to keep it without you? How do you plan to keep it without national unity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10780	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Samardzic has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10781	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to know what public domain the Presidential Statement and the Ban Ki Moon report can be found on. Of course, there's a public domain on the global agenda, and that's where I found it. So I went to the Security Council site and I found these documents. It's not about that. It is said that what was done before when negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija were being negotiated, which is that our public is immediately informed of what is happening. If negotiations are being held, then at least there's something to say about it, not every detail, it's clear to me what the negotiations are, but it can be said what the generals are about. If there is a document that is important for this country, even crucial, then it is at least important to read on the RTS Journal 2, especially if it is so short and clear, such as the presidential statement. I claim that this was actually a policy of hiding what was achieved or better said, hiding what had not been achieved in these negotiations. I don't think we need the pathetics of Kosovo's state unity and defence here, etc. We've come to a deep stage and a far-reaching phase, where we see exactly what anyone does and what they represent. It's actually about facts and results. It's not the most important thing that one government fell apart and another government was made. It happens to more stable countries somewhere in half the mandate, and believe that would happen to a very stable state, like France, if someone wanted to take away Corsica. That government would certainly have fallen if it hadn't secured unity. It's actually about the results. You see, for now, Kosovo is going out of Serbia with the government's consent. Why? Because the government has agreed to sign a Eulex tasked with achieving an independent Kosovo. It's like one and one and two. Secondly, I said the dilemma was for someone or -- or, or the EU or Kosovo. In fact, this was an imposed dilemma by the EU. It's not her original policy either. It was a policy of the United States and the EU got to execute it and it took it to end with Balkan Indians as it knew and could. That's how he behaves, like a Colonist in the Wild West. We were actually Indians or our negotiators here. That means, we've been allowed to be translated by the thirsty across the water, given some papers, that there's absolutely nothing guaranteed in those papers, that we accept it, that they, like us, continue to co-operate on European integrations, but we let them do whatever they want in Kosovo. That's what we need to talk about. This is EU requirements. As far as the ruling coalition is concerned, it has not been defined for European integration and against Kosovo for the time being. According to the results we can judge so far, it is in the choice of threads -- neither does it have European integration nor Kosovo. That's what's saddest. We did not get the slightest shift in European integration because we gave up Kosovo. Imagine the negotiating situation in which it is traded. Well, then there's got to be something. I'm not saying it should be done with Kosovo, but imagine hypothetically what we've got. We've got a start. Be careful, the Interim Agreement shall take effect automatically after the signing of the SAA by the two parties. Therefore, it does not have to be ratified by the SAA in order to enter into force, time is saved by giving the trade part of the agreement to be applied immediately. It wasn't done to Serbia. She's the only one who put it on ice, suspension until further notice. You had the EU Summit, the European Council, before the Council of Ministers on the matter, did not release the application of the trade agreement. We as Indians, drunk with the whiskey we took before we started negotiating, we say it doesn't matter, we'll apply it. You don't have to, it's hard for you, since the Hague condition hasn't yet been met, like Holland and Belgium are doing something about it. Please, there are a number of strong, influential Member States behind the Netherlands and Belgium who have led the EU's Kosovo policy. That's quite clear. So there's no result, and I'm afraid there won't be any. I don't like to argue from the future. We've heard that a lot of times today. Mr. Verko Stevanović said there's going to be a Fiat here, you'll see. Okay, maybe it will be, it's what I want, I love it, I can't convince anyone that it will be, I can't convince anyone that we won't join the EU tomorrow. I'm afraid we won't do what I see. But what are we talking about? You know the difference between joining the EU by becoming a Member State and starting to apply a transitional SAA. That's the difference between 1,000 light-years. It's a difference that we can hardly imagine at all. We didn't start traveling that way because the EU won't and won't. What did we get for giving Kosovo? Nothing. Maybe that's what this is about. Come on, get out, and tell us what the six-month gain you sacrificed Kosovo for is. You interrupted the continuity of politics with the previous government we ran together. We split up, just because one of them didn't think we should go to ore, and the other one said, well, maybe we'll get something. What'd you get? That's my question. Nothing. What will you get in the look of it? Listen, at the Council of Ministers of the EU, on the European Council seven days ago, it was not a subject under "sh", it is one half sentence, it is delayed until further notice. It'll take years and years. So I'm not talking about us and our desire and our strategies. I am talking about this partnership with the EU. The EU has resolved, as it has seen the state give way, to tighten to the end, and that is the point, the more you give in, the more they will tighten. They'll tighten until the belt reaches the throat and the back of the hole. Then maybe we'll get something in some kind of Belgrade pasture or in some Serbia that won't be for anything. No one respects you if you give in as much as you give in. This is not the time when Serbia could be said to be running a policy of human rights violations, a non-democracy policy, imposing constitutions, wars, etc. This is the time of democratic Serbia. Neither the greatest force against democratic Serbia could be strong if it were unique. It has the right to be unique in matters of sovereignty and territorial integrity. That is what the EU's basic rule is. It consists of Member States that safeguard their sovereignty and territorial integrity as a pupil of their eye, as it is said, a day-to-day when this narrow and tight integration exists. Well, why doesn't Britain give up Gibraltar when borders aren't important in the EU? Because it defends its sovereignty and territorial integrity in front of Spain, which does not occur to ask for it. There are clear relationships, integration goes on in some other things, and so the state respects itself. We spit ourselves in that thing, easily giving up the works of the territory. The EU is responding because it has to finish the job that the United States has given. The question was how long can we last? If we could've lasted longer, we'd have an old government. The new government turned a leaf, began to run a different policy, began to give in, however sad it is. It's for every criticism. But I'm asking a pragmatic question - what do we get? Nothing. Or, what have you got, you who represent the European dogma? You didn't get anything, just an illusion, a promise and nothing else. So the question is either – or it doesn't exist in reality. Someone said -- either Kosovo or the EU, but he didn't mean it. In fact, he wanted to bring about a government here that would say "and" and not be given either. In Kosovo, we have almost no influence, nor on our institutions that we have, as we have, held. It's slowly falling apart. Our people are being pushed into the arms of the institutions of an independent Kosovo, police are not being paid, customs duties are not being paid, customs officials, all that was therefore the decision and conclusion of the government from February 22nd or 23rd of this year. So, and what we have and what we keep leaving to convince Brussels that we are right, which is more orthodox in fulfilling our obligations. They won't give us anything. So we're not going anywhere with that policy. I think she's defeated and, if at all possible, this government, even though it's pure utopia, should begin to question her a little bit. This conversation is good for that, too. I think there's still going to be something recorded.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10782	Thank you, Mr. Samardzic. The word has a minister for KIM, Mr Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10783	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, listening to Professor Samardzic, the impression is that literally this government has done nothing in Kosovo, that this government has changed its policy towards KIM, that this government is not thinking in a way to protect Serbs in KIM, that this government is a traitor government, that it is ready to sell Kosovo. That's absolutely not true. I fully understand my predecessor's policy, so we stand up for it, Professor Samardzic, both for Kosovo and Europe, unlike you who stand for it, perhaps just for Kosovo. I don't seem to mind your ideas or attitudes like that. But, rest assured, first of all, I want to send a message to you, honourable MPs, and to the Serbs in KIM, that Serbia is not giving up on KIM, we are not giving up on our peaceful, diplomatic, legal struggles to preserve territorial integrity and sovereignty in KIM and, of course, we are not giving up on the economic strengthening of the Serb community in KIM space. It is absolutely not true that the KIM Ministry, primarily responsible for strengthening the institutions of the state of Serbia in KIM, has done nothing. I'll remind you that after two years, for the first time, we started paying material costs to primary and secondary schools, that for the first time we provided heating in time, seed material, that for the first time we started local self-government to transfer funds that could strengthen their institutions, i.e. the institutions of the Serbian state in this space. I will also remind you that for the first time we held a seminar for education and the president of municipalities, their deputies, the secretary of municipalities, and, of course, the entire executive councils. Many times today, there has been a tendency to give Kosovo for nothing, that we are ready to give it up lightly. Also, I'm responsible for saying it's not true. A colleague, Jeremic, illustrated it very nicely here and showed it. I'll take the opportunity to explain first and foremost what it says in Secretary General Ban Ki Moon's report about six points. These are very important points. Professor Samardzic, you know it well, because we used to look for it together. We also asked for it in 2000 and 2001 in talks with Unmika. But then they wouldn't let us, let us. We have now succeeded in talking to the UN, and I believe that what we have achieved in agreement with the UN primarily means a great deal to the Serb community. Because simply put, for the first time, Serbs can ask themselves directly who will be their commanding staff in the coalition, which judges will give to the Unmik courts. For the first time, taxes, customs and VAT will be collected, where they will go directly to local Serb municipalities. For the first time, Kfor will guard the administrative line, for the first time, we have fought it, and in further talks we will succeed in keeping our cultural and historical monuments, too, safe from our police. When I say our police, which is in the KPS, where there's a chain of command in the international community, where we're going to account for the international community. So we won't be directly receiving a chain of command from Pristina and so on. the countries of Kosovo. These are the great successes we've achieved in the deal with Unmika. Of course, there is another stage that is also very difficult and will be safe, because some experience teaches us, which we had with Unmika, where we couldn't do much in the implementation, or until the end of some agreements. But be assured that this government will do everything possible to ensure that what it has agreed on around six points is carried out on the ground. It's a red line under which this government won't go. Because this government will do nothing against the interests of Serbs at KIM. This government will do nothing to make the Serbs downstairs suffer for certain things, which they unfortunately want to impute to us representatives of some political parties. It is also very important to point out that this government will continue to strengthen the institutions of the state of Serbia in KIM, and we do so, we do so daily. So there's absolutely no way that we've been disabling those institutions down there, that we've cheated on the Serbian people down there and we're not doing anything for that people. You can see that on the ground every day. We've done not only for these five months, you've done before, Mr. Samardzic, too, of course, we've continued that continuity, we've financed everything down. It is therefore unacceptable that you, who together with me and Mr. Jeremic fought in negotiations and participated in all these processes, also today use KIM for daily-political purposes or for collecting some cheap political points, which can only, unfortunately, harm Serbs and other non-Albanians in the area of KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10784	The word is from Mr Dragan Todorovic, head of the SRS parliamentary group. I'm sorry, the promoter before that, I didn't see you coming again. You can do it at any time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10785	Dear People's MPs, we don't have to go into every detail, but what matters is what Minister Bogdanovic said, he mentioned the plan - six points, he simply gave me the basis to say what I want about it. Namely, this plan – six points, which I hope will be translated or published in our press, is not large, there may be about 2.5 pages. There's six areas. In fact, the plan guarantees some special interests for Serbs as a national minority in an independent Kosovo. He's so made. You simply have nothing to do with the Serbs with the queen Serbia, with Serbia as the home state, because the six-point plan in the area of police, customs and justice, primarily those three areas, is not talking about them, it is actually talking about special protection that will take some time. It's even said for customs that the regime will last 60 days. Otherwise, the police are also acting according to the six-point and customs plan, customs services and the judiciary are acting under Kosovo's laws, which is perfectly normal, because Kosovo has taken over competence from Unmik. Eulex doesn't take any jurisdiction because Eulex is coming to help make the area of police, justice and customs work better. That is why for a while, uncertainly how long it will be for Commissioner of Police Unmika to appoint a Serb chief of police station or substation. There are other benefits there. What is more clear, which is a little bit who reads, so I ask the ministers at least to read this text, in this unfortunate plan of Marty Ahtisaari, in Annex 2, you have certain benefits for the national communities, these are national minorities, where they are actually said that in areas that are populated by minorities and in municipalities that are mostly populated by minorities there will be police stations that will reflect that municipality by ethnic structure, that the commanders will choose according to a special procedure, etc. So, if we're satisfied with helping Serbs as a national minority in Kosovo, what the six-point program gives us, then okay, that's what we should say. Don't say these are our citizens, because our citizens, our citizens, are protecting themselves differently, but if they are citizens of another country potentially, not ours, then the most we can do is give them some special minority rights. It's either-or. You can't treat them like your citizens and expose them to the laws of another state. It is quite clear, customs, police, the judiciary will operate under Kosovo's laws. As for traffic and infrastructure, border control and protection of the legacy of the SPC, there is absolutely nothing said in six points. You'll see it's an open dialogue. The dialogue is the main thing. Whose dialogue? Well, dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. That's what you're looking for. Belgrade and Pristina must, according to the idea, even have an introduction to this part, where the parties are said to have considered and we are satisfied with that, six points. So, they are expected to intercede with a UN special representative, and this will be the last task of the secretary-general, after which they will leave, because EULEX will rule that part of Kosovo, that it will actually mediate and mediate in Belgrade and Pristina's talks on these matters. It's actually a plan and a program and it needs to be said openly. There may be no problem with that, but we can't discuss it by hiding or hiding this fact that's easily in that text. So once again I ask you to publish it in our press, it may also interest the citizens to read it in Serbian, and that famous presidential statement, where there is nothing and no guarantees for Serbia regarding Eulex, etc., especially this six-point plan, so let's see if it's the protection of the minority in the neighbouring country or if it's the protection of our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10786	Thank you, Mr. Samardzic. Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10787	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, first of all, let me read to you plan 113, which says: "The provisions of this Rules of Procedure on the work at the National Assembly session are applied to all other participants in the session, next to the MPs, and shall be applied accordingly to the meetings of the committees and other working bodies of the National Assembly." Therefore, Madam President, whether it is the Minister or any other representative of the Government, MPs have the right to report to the Rules of Procedure and to the Rules of Procedure. I don't think you'll lose any of that if you respect the Rules of Procedure. On the contrary, I think you can only get into a situation that unnecessarily creates an atmosphere in the Serbian Parliament that will not lead to, hopefully, solutions that we all seek. To return to the replica, first of all, about Mr. Vuk Jeremic. But before I answer, just to ask Mr Bogdanovic a question, did he speak here as Minister of Bajram Rexhepi or Minister Mirko Cvetkovic? You know, there are some things we need to clear up. People, it's impossible that a man can represent such different attitudes as Mr. Bogdanovic's. Look, he was in the government of a man who said his goal was independent of Kosovo and Metohija and it was until 2004. Therefore, you still need to take care of some things. As for you, Mr. Jeremic, you say that you have given the only possible answer to the declaration of independence of KIM - a democratic response. Mr. Jeremic, you can give the answer only on the basis of the Constitution, and it is neither democratic nor non-democratic, but it is as the Constitution writes, and the Constitution in Article 8 says that the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and indivisible. There are other members of the Constitution who regulate the situation. This is how when you tell me that you gave me a democratic response, then I remember the arrival of Boris Tadic from America in January 2007, in a pre-election campaign when he said that the independence of KIM is reality, that it is a fact and that we have to deal with it. In that sense, I accept that this is a democratic response. You're saying you've brought the issue back to the UN, to the Security Council, and that by accepting the Eulex mission, you've brought back the KIM issue to the UN. It is not true, on the contrary, that you have transferred from the UN the KIM issue to Europe, to the EU. Then you wonder... (President: Time. ) Take away, if possible, the time of the SRS parliamentary group, so you will not be damaged. What will Europe do? She'll do the same thing she did 100, 200, 300, 500 years ago, which she does throughout her history. What are the greatest colonial forces on this globe earth? Europe countries: England, France, Spain, Portugal, etc. You don't need to be explained. Have you forgotten the Berlin Congress in 1878, then that Europe gave one part of a sovereign state to another state for 30 years to settle things there. Then Serbia-Montenegro was not in a position to respond by force. We don't blame you for not being able to respond by force. No one can blame you for that, but we resent you for agreeing to blackmail. That's the basic problem. Why do you deceive Serbian citizens, or is it just a hoax? By agreeing to the EULEX issue of KIM, you have definitely removed it from the Security Council, or from the UN and moved it to the EU, which is not binding. The Eulex mission will carry out Marty Ahtisaari's plan. There's no dilemma. None of you would ask me, one thing, Resolution 1244. Do you want to force it? Well, they can, whether you agree to it or not, but if you want to seek Serbia's consent, only on the basis of Resolution 1244. How can you agree to negotiate with those who do not meet their obligations? What do they explain that they do not meet Resolution 1244? Did you ask them - gentlemen, does it say that on paper? How can you ask us Serbs and Serbia to fulfil our obligations and you do not? In addition, the military minister and the president of the Republic are seeking a revision of the Kumanovo Agreement, reportedly to end the security zone. And there is a big fraud, because the Kumanovo Agreement clearly states that this is Serbia's administrative border with the Autonomous Region of KIM. If there is an audit, the Autonomous KIM Area will be released. These are all the things you consciously do by misleading Serbian citizens and slowly allowing KIM to slowly slide towards independence. Please answer simple questions. By what laws will the rules of the Eulex work? Will this be based on KIM Constitution and KIM law, or will it be based on the Constitution of Serbia and the law of the Republic of Serbia? We can't play around here all the time trying to fool the citizens of Serbia. Tell the citizens of Serbia -- that's the situation, we can't, we can't, and we'll understand it, but don't deceive us. That's the problem with this government, it's a problem with Boris Tadic, which has been trying all along to deceive Serbian citizens, to win possibly some political point, so they can double-cross Serbian citizens and continue to do what you've been doing for eight years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10788	The word has been made by Minister Vuk Jeremic. I would just like to say, Mr. Todorovic, that you have read Article 113 wrong - the provision of this Rules of Procedure at the session, not the work. The term is "order". Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10789	I also want to thank Mr Samardzic and Mr Todorovic for this criticism. I think there's a lot to discuss here. First of all, I think any criticism on this subject is constructive and should be heard. At no time do I have any doubt in the best intentions of both Mr Samardzic and Mr Todorovic to contribute to the creation of state policy, I hope, at the end of the single state policy that this country will use to defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity. That's why I'd like to answer some of these questions, because first of all, I think there's a misunderstanding here in the middle rather than a fundamental confrontation. I don't think we have any fundamental confrontation here. We all want the same thing here. I don't believe anyone sitting in this assembly who's intended to destroy our country's constitutional order. We can have one or the same opinion on Kosovo, but I do not believe that there are strong supporters of KIM independence, i.e. the collapse of the country's constitutional order, chosen by the people to sit in this assembly. We can fight politically and we can move the ball to each other, we can criticize each other, but I deeply believe that the people of this country have chosen a parliament in which, at least on this one issue, there should be a high degree of unity. You asked me, Mr. Todorovic, about a democratic response to an attempt to violate the constitutional order, so I want to explain it. We're thinking about an answer that doesn't mean the use of armed forces. It's our political decision, Mr. Todorovic. The government has made a political decision to defend the constitutional order to approach methods that do not involve the use of armed forces. Another government, eventually elected on another political platform, would have the constitutional right to use armed forces. I don't think any government would do that, or any government you're leading in the future. I believe that the use of armed forces at this time and under these circumstances is not in the interest of Serbian citizens, the defence of the constitutional order by legal, political and diplomatic means is. We believe it's a political priority. We will continue with such a policy and ask for such a policy for your support. I deeply believe that Kosovo is one of those topics where it really is, I will try not to repeat myself many times, necessary state unity within this institution. We have a majority. The government by definition has a majority, the opposition is in the minority. I think that when it comes to Kosovo, we should cross-reference our opinions, and that's why this session is good, and that's why everything you've told us is very useful. I didn't expect you to have any misunderstandings on any of these issues. I'm taking this opportunity to explain some of these misunderstandings. I believe that after the cross-referencing, after the government's decision to lead the policy on the subject of the KIM, the opposition should escort the government. One day we will probably be an opposition to you, then we will follow you when it comes to Kosovo politics. The DS believes that the establishment of state unity is necessary in Kosovo, and that the government should be the one creating politics. We take an opinion from you, try to integrate it to the maximum possible extent, and then decide what the government's policy is, but we expect support from you as well. We expect you to be a loyal opposition when it comes to kim. We're not looking for understanding for any other question, we're looking for Kim. We would not have been chosen by the vast majority of Serbian citizens if we were someone who, for his own purpose, had collapsed the constitutional order and detachment of Kosovo from Serbia. We do not, we will fight all legal, legal, diplomatic, political means to defend the constitutional order and territorial integrity of the country. As far as Eulexas is concerned, as far as the reconfiguration is concerned, we have fought to ensure that Resolution 1244 is fully underlined, drawn, and that EULEX must act in our southern province that it has full respect for Resolution 1244, that is explicit, the documents confirmed, or supported by the Security Council. It's not true that we moved from New York, from the UN to Brussels. We fought until the end that Eulex had to report to the Security Council. They wouldn't. It's on paper, it's in the Security Council's decision, that they have to file those reports. Many things are in the decisions of the Security Council that are not respected in the world. After all, our country was bombed without a Security Council decision. Therefore, someone may decide not to respect what the Security Council has brought, but we do not have a better chance of fighting for our interests than to use diplomatic means of elections to write something down in a document that supports the Security Council. Whether at the end of the day all members of the Security Council will decide to respect these Security Council decisions, we don't know that. Some countries bombed us without a Security Council decision, some countries bombed some other countries without a Security Council decision. Therefore, to be aware, not all that is written in the decisions of the Security Council is what we all ultimately respect. It is our responsibility that elections to write such a thing, and we have fought that the international civilian presence in our southern province is reconfigured by the Security Council's decision, has the obligation to report regularly, as Unmik did. The UN Security Council, and we'll be on the Security Council every time, as we've been to the Security Council. We will not allow, as a member state of the UN, anything to be done with our implicit consent that the effect will have on the collapse of the constitutional order of this country, the collapse of democracy based on, democratically, a adopted constitution, but that is why we need your help. We need your help, we need Mr Samardzic's help, we need you on the negotiating team, we need you, we can't do it without you. Thank you for your criticism, but we need you on the team, we all need you on the team.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10790	Thank you, Mr. Jeremiah. Mr. Samardzic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10791	Dear People's MPs, don't be angry, but I can't resist this challenge for help. In fact, if we had held a debate on Kosovo this July, when the opposition, 108 signatories, gave the initiative to hold a debate over the resolution, we could be much more open and independent of the government's future moves. That was July. The initiative was still in June. In late July, the congregation began to work. At the end of July and in early August, we could have had a debate like this, very open, and offered to help, why not. You have the government, we are the opposition, here's our opinion. But after three, four or five months, maybe even six, this now seems kind of a post-festum, since it's all over now the minister is asking for help. It's very much about what he said about the democratic means of making such a policy. The Minister's explanation is very simple. He says disowning weapons is democratic policymaking. No one spoke about the weapons, but not using the weapons in this case is absolutely not enough to lead a democratic policy. This is an example of a non-democratic policy towards Kosovo, because we haven't had a debate in the Assembly for six months. That's the problem. We offered something we did not call democracy, but called it a regular congregation procedure. The motion for a resolution, here's a debate, take whatever you want, leave whatever you want, let's continue the debate in a month, two, three. Under the constitution, the government is obliged to formulate and lead both internal and external policies and is independent in this. After the assembly debate, whether the resolution was passed or not, she would lead the month, two, three, and then come back to the assembly. Now that she's got nothing in her activities that, on the inside, are absolutely non-democratic, non-transparent, no discussion, we don't know what it is. Today, since decisions have been made, we do not have these decisions SB translated and published on our websites, on our electronic media, in our printed media. And now we're running a non-democratic policy, on the inside, according to KIM. I can only say that this invitation from the foreign minister is in principle fine, that he may be noble, but we can't judge by his intentions, the devil took the joke. We must judge by our actions. The works are catastrophic by the state of KIM and Serbia's relations with KIM. I've never used a word - treason. KIM was handed over on a plate to someone else. Maybe not so many Albanians, and they don't know what's going on there, but the Western forces that have their own strong interests in it. Let me remind you, about these Western forces, EU enlargement is no longer dominant in the framework of enlargement policy. EU enlargement has been in the domain of EU foreign and security policy for two or three years. That's what she decides. Think about that fact of what our chances of expansion are, and what we're giving for it. It is an opportunity to hear such things in this congregation, and that is why it can serve, which is why it is made. This is the representative organ of the people, it's spoken to, and if anyone listens, we don't know. The government should listen. I'm sorry, it's been a while, decisions have been made, we're down and we can't help that thing. We can only criticise the government, but call it to account for what it did, without the public of Serbia, without the Serbian Parliament, without democratic means. The thing's over, the vase's broken, we can't glue it, maybe we can just buy someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10792	Thank you, Mr. Samardzic. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10793	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Cvetkovic, Ministers and Ministers of Honor, Art. 101st and 104th were injured. Neither the government's representatives, led by the Prime Minister, understand us, nor in their answers that are the consequences of misunderstanding respect the dignity of the Assembly. We didn't ask the government for an explanation for what happened in the past, but it's clear that the arguments, which are acceptable to us, the government cannot give. It is completely pointless to seek out a place for future co-operation. We asked for one vision, and a vision from you, Mr. Cvetkovic, and a vision from you, Mr. Jeremic, not a call for loyalty. Thank you very much, we do not need ambassadors, but we need an answer to the question -- with which right you have decided to confront us with the entire EU by showing understanding of the degree of human rights in Iran. With what right? Whether this is ever discussed on the Assembly's board of directors or whether it is the price for the support we receive in a barren project of makeup of Kosovo's truth. Mr Cvetkovic, we expect the same from you, what will your government do, a few hours ago the Constitutional Court accepted our initiative, will the government continue negotiations with the head of the cabinet of Mr Jeremic, who is probably in the same rank as the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy? I mean negotiations with Russian partners. Those who at the beginning of our new tragedy, which lasts for 20 years, said that Kosovo is the most expensive Serbian word, unconsciously today, through the government's moves, getting confirmation of such a thing, while in the meantime the price has become very low, so instead of swearing allegiance to a policy that, on the one hand, is based on myth, and on fiction, let's then get answers to a few simple truths. Your government spoke for itself about the thieving in Kosovo. Kosovo has become a front for anything that is unacceptable. If there is no power to define a policy that will be different from what we have survived in the past, then you yourself, as members of the government, have challenged more than anyone in the opposition. It has never been in the past few years of unity on Kosovo's policy, not because we didn't want it, but because previous governments have been incompetent, as have this current one. They could not define public interest as the centre of the gathering, but must have found love and hope in the government that Kosovo will be what it imagines. It depends not on Kosovo's fate, but on Serbia's ability to be organised and serious, which was not in the past. Eulex came to Kosovo, Mr Jeremic, to do a job that could no longer be done by the Serbian state, which is still unable to work by the Kosovo state, recognised by most EU member states. After 49 recognitions, you decided to banish 50th and 51st ambassadors, the next-door ambassador of Montenegro and the ambassador of neighbouring Macedonia, with disturbed relations with Bosnia. We can only describe your policy as a series of pointless conflicts. We can't give you support for something like that. (President: Time. ). Madam President, I remind you of a sentence that I have completed my presentation - take care of the integrity of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10794	Mr. Vuk Jeremic, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10795	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic, for this criticism. I think it's very important that this matter be discussed too. You mentioned a few questions, one about this topic, directly to Kosovo, which is the main theme of today's Assembly. The second is related to Serbia's foreign policy, when it comes to regional policy and when it comes to our global performance in the international arena, or about human rights. I will start with this Kosovo, as it is, however, the main topic for today's session of the Assembly. There was no unity, I agree in this parliament, but there was no unity when it came to Kosovo politics since you were a member of parliament, or until your party was in parliament. Since then, there has been no unity, but unity has been almost 100%, since then. But that is not why we can't fight for a single policy in the future, however much this after this debate, or the current point in the debate, seems. I hope, however, that after we exchange opinions and after we cross opinions, I want to believe that we will still come to a single policy. As for our regional policy, I would like to remind myself that good neighbourly relations are one of the conditions for integration into the European Union and this government takes it very seriously. We have three foreign policy priorities. One defends the constitutional order by diplomatic means, since it threatens us, unlike the vast majority of countries. Another thing is European integration, and the third thing is good neighbourly relations, i.e. the best possible relations in the region. It was not Serbia who decided to bring down the constitutional order of any of its neighbours by its unilateral act. It was done by neighbours towards Serbia, and some of the neighbours did it towards Serbia. The recognition of KIM as an independent state for direct consequence has a violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country and if we do not react to it, if nothing diplomatically, then we have sent a message to the world that we have given up on the defense of constitutional order. I think we've tried to find a good balance when it comes to reacting in a way that the citizens of this country are not at a loss. When it comes to Montenegro and Macedonia, you asked me about the 50th and 51st ambassadors, or 50th and 51st recognition, it did not come at any time, it was not aimed at CG and Macedonia because they are our closest neighbours, it came at a very serious moment, Mr Jovanovic, and this is the moment after Serbia took the victory in the general assembly vote, to move Kosovo's status issue from political to international legal arena. It was a crucial moment in which, unless we reacted in such a way, we would send a message to the world, now after the vote, whoever wants to recognise Kosovo would welcome it. I had serious talks with management and CG and Macedonia in the days before and I presented to them the danger of their act. If they'd done that a day earlier, what they knew and what we explicitly presented to them, they wouldn't have done any harm to our global plan to stop KIM's recognition after it went to the hands of the International Court of Justice. CG and Macedonia officials knew that and did so with the intention of doing the maximum possible damage to the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia reacted to this by diplomatic means, as a result of our performance towards their act, violations not only of our sovereignty, but also of vital interest which represents a continuation of diplomatic struggle, a continuation of diplomatic and legal struggle to preserve constitutional order. No parameters of our country's relationship with those two neighbors have changed. Mr. Jovanovic, if you look at economic indicators, they are the same day before recognition today. If you look at co-operation in many areas, it's the same as today. Yes, there is no Mrs. Anka Vojvodic, former Montenegrin ambassador to Belgrade, I am personally sorry that she is not there, because she was an extremely decent woman, who has done a lot for Serbia and CG relations. She's gone, everything's the same as before, and the result of what she's no longer there is that there has been no new recognition of KIM as an independent state. And if there was a new recognition, then we'd be in a situation where the whole story in front of the International Court of Justice is just one nominal process. No, we've made our bitter, diplomatic reaction not to get any new confessions. If you are talking, and I know you talk very often to representatives of foreign countries here in Belgrade, with ambassadors, talk to them. Ambassadors of non-classified told me, at the official meeting I had with them, we followed what you're going to say after the recognition of Montenegro and Macedonia, and if you hadn't reacted like this, a number of us would have decided to admit it. This is how we decided not to do it. It wasn't pointless or it wasn't for fighting. No citizens of Serbia-Montenegro, with the exception of Anka Vojvodic, whom I repeat that I am very sorry that he is not here, felt and did not suffer any damage from this state act, reacting to something that is a direct attack on our constitutional order at the most difficult moment. So we reacted because of it. As for human rights, the issue of human rights is one of the most important issues and problems that the international community will face in the 21st century and we as a constructive member of the international community will do everything in our humble power to protect human rights in the world. We are a small country that has no unlimited diplomatic resources. These diplomatic resources should be used economically, given what its foreign policy priorities represent, and Serbia's first foreign policy priority is to defend the constitutional order by diplomatic means. As for the defence of human rights and global protection of human rights, we make our contribution primarily within Serbia's borders, as far as we can, since there is one part within Serbia's borders where human rights are in no way protected, and these are the human rights of the Serbs at KIM. We don't have the administrative capacity to protect them there. So let's start with ourselves. Let's start with the protection of human rights in our territory, where we have the capacity to protect them I believe we're protecting them from a few excellencies. In one part of our territory, human rights are not adequately protected. I want to draw attention, first of all, to the human rights of Serbs and other non-Albanian communities in KIM. I think this assembly should pay far more attention to the protection of human rights in its territory, specifically in KIM territory. As for Iran, I don't know what the situation is about human rights in Iran. I'd like to know what it is, but what I do know is that within the framework of the Islamic Conference, where there are 50 countries, close cooperation with a number of countries, such as Indonesia, Iran and Egypt. and many others, but I will point out these three, Kosovo has so far recognised only four Muslim states. Many of our friends who have recognised KIM and who voted in favour of this resolution against Iran have done their utmost to lobby the Organisation of Islamic States, using the fact that Kosovo is predominantly populated by the Muslim population and that for the sake of Muslim solidarity Kosovo should be recognised. With the help of some member states of the Islamic Conference Organisation, we have prevented it. I think sometimes friends should be respected. Friends should be criticized, but sometimes they should be respected. As for the protection of human rights, do not have any dilemma. Human rights protection will remain a priority for this government, but we are going to ourselves, starting from Serbia's territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10796	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Aligrudić, then Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10797	This is where Article 100(1) is injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. There are no speakers in the National Assembly that are first and second. It is primarily an injury to the chairman who was done about an hour ago, and this is clearly still insisting. So that you don't get me wrong, the discussion that was conducted between the proposing representatives and the ministers present here, I think it's good to hear and it's good that they went after each other and made arguments, because that's actually what we want. No one comes to mind, nor does the chairman need to defend the proposed group above all against the procedure under discussion and work at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. None of us are going to hurt it because of ourselves. Some times it comes out of the box, but you see, let's say what we can hear here. We hear, say, from ministers who today, and about the mistrust of the government here, debate in a way that offends the dignity of the National Assembly. One of the ministers comes out and says what he thinks is just and exclusively the subject of this debate. Of course, the formal incentive for this debate is what you did with Eulex, what you ran the wrong state policy and made the whole circus when it came to trying to defend the territorial integrity of the state. But what you wanted to do, that's what people foresaw, to avoid indulging in the way in this fishing on the discussion, you avoided talking about another part of the story that will definitely catch up to you, which is that because of the trade you're making, which you didn't get anything for, because everything is very clear here, you don't come from panic to do any other state work. This government has been doing nothing for six months. This government is unable to send to the National Assembly as many laws as it threatened six months ago to bring down the National Assembly with legal proposals. This government hides measures from MPs who will take action to protect this country from the impact of the economic crisis, and does not hide various papazians and nonsense such as refrigerators, stoves, which we cannot buy and the like. What else are you hiding? What was seen from the previous discussion that Professor Slobodan Samardzic was very good at running with you, hiding the capital matter, running away into a discussion where you think you can hide. You're hiding the capital matter. The argumentation of Professor Slobodan Samardzic would have full meaning and full meaning, but it would be clearly supported by the evidence that you want to avoid here. Give us a table of six-point documents, or six-point documents, and give us a report from Ban Ki Moon translated, give us a presidential statement, which clearly gives us everything we're talking about, and then it'll be clear to everyone. On the one hand, you have an empty story, and on the other hand you have something supported by arguments. That's what you want to get away from. Well, we asked you at the beginning of this debate and you ignored it. (President: Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10798	Thank you. Mr. Velimir Ilic, then Mr. Dragan Todorovic, and Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10799	Dear People's MPs, this debate has been delayed, we have been listening here for a very long time to the foreign minister about the problems followed by the negotiating team, about the successes achieved on the diplomatic plan. But I have to do something I said this morning. Gentlemen of the government, Mr. Foreign Minister, you've done something that no one in the world has ever done, made possible, legalized and created a foreign state in our country, and you've legalized it through Eulex these days. If it's your pride and you defend it here for hours and discuss it, you talk about successes, your friends in the world. Who are your friends in the world? What country is there to cooperate with? Do we have a friend in the world? We don't, gentlemen. You've pissed everybody off. Here, with this gas deal and Russia you had a fight. You don't know what you want. There's no one behind us. We talk, human rights, human rights, of course, we're all for respect for human rights. We fought here, many on the right, regardless of any further considerations, for democracy in Serbia. Democracy hasn't come yet. They're not free media yet. We still have persecution on various grounds. Please, you don't respect your own decisions, you don't respect your own court, and that's why the government has to leave. I repeated the other day, the executive verdict of the Vujan monastery, that the monastery cannot be privatized. You sold the monastery property and the source. People brought in the deed, and the court gave them the verdict that they should not be sold. You sold it. What you're up to, you do it, you don't care who's behind it. You're sitting here every day working at Belgrade's department store. They were told it would be worth it. Why don't you pay them? They've been coming in for years. You gave one of them where you were interested, where your municipalities were, you didn't give it to others. You have to pay for everything or you don't pay for anyone. You can't solve that question. You have the Secretary of Defense, solve the problem. The other day you shut down the best firm in Serbia, the Technical Remont Institute. It was the best firm in the big, old Yugoslavia. You sent people home. No one can explain where they are. (President: Time. We said, you're selling property in privatisation, so the owner knows. So you say, we'll figure it out later. How? (President: Mr. Ilichu, will you bring the end? ) Therefore, please get serious here to discuss serious issues. Don't brag about your diplomatic successes now. I repeat, your success is that you don't have any friends in the world right now. Tell me which country is friendly to you, to stand behind you, to help us, to do something. Finish it, Mr. Ilich. You don't. Here's what the Dutch are doing to you, the European Union. Who is your friend in the European Union? No one, gentlemen, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10800	Thank you. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic. I'm sorry, Cedomir. Dragan Todorovic is before you. I'm sorry, I thought you were already talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10801	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that Minister Vuk Jeremic is not here, but simply some things have to be said. All of what Vuk Jeremic did, he did with a few months late, that's the problem. Then how can we trust you? That this session was held when the motion for a KIM resolution was filed, then we should have gone out and faced all the facts and arguments. And that would be the right way, and that would be an honest call and confidence that you really want to co-operate with all MPs in the Serbian Parliament, because I believe that the largest number of MPs want well for this country and that they would like to contribute to the steps taken by the government in line with the interests of Serbian citizens. Among other things, you are bound by the Constitution, Article 99 and Article 123. The government had to, before taking these steps, put a resolution on the agenda and try to convince you that what you're up to is not good. What did you do? You did everything you could to fool us, to get us out. Apparently, Mr Bogdanovic spoke to one MP group, with another, with a third, and wrote their remarks. He was basically just eating time, looking to put it off, to get us into this situation that we came into. Why didn't you show up in Kosovo Mitrovica on 10 November 2008 for a session of the Kosovo and Metohija Community Assembly? Who is more invited than the presidents of Kosovo and Metohija municipalities to hear all the government's intentions and to assess whether it's good for them or not? We may be wrong here, but they certainly can't be wrong. They know what conditions they live in, know what they need, and know how to do it. Why didn't you leave when you had such strong and good arguments and tell them about it down in Kosovo Mitrovica? None of you showed up. One more thing, said Mr. Vuk Jeremic that using force is not a democratic tool. That's true, but as far as I know, Europe has no alternative for you. What's NATO doing? Is that what he's diplomatically accomplishing his goals and his interests... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... or a criminal bombing, wherever he is unable to achieve his interests in a different way? Then what are you going to do with those and why are you trying, why does that road have no alternative for you? (President: Time, Mr. Todorovic. ) There are countries in the world that have a different approach. This approach is based on equality, understanding, non-interference in internal affairs, but you certainly cannot find this approach in the EU and in America.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10802	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10803	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government, once again, the essence of the LDP policy in this debate is aimed at defining the programme that the government here is to offer to us, whose centre is the interest of the citizens of this country, which we can achieve together. For us, this debate is pointless if the aim of this debate is to convince us that we should show loyalty to the government's unsuccessful policy. No one contests any more governmental failed projects, from fallen economic reforms, political system reforms, to Kosovo itself, from life. Unity in Kosovo politics is not built on the idea that Kosovo is a front and an excuse. This unity in Kosovo politics did not exist in the Serbian parliament because it was not the LDP, but because parties in parliament, except LDP, have always been more concerned about their interests than about the interests of those they allegedly represented. More than the LDP, the Kosovo policy behind which parliament stood several times, challenges life in Kosovo itself. If we have to be so vulgar, the Serb community in Kosovo, because it is the first victim of this irresponsible policy. And when the Ahtisaari plan was discussed and the debate was held in July of the month and the debate was held in the Serbian Parliament's solemn house a year ago, when Eulex was rejected and attacked, and here we are now offered arguments in favor of Eulex, which we understood and supported a year ago. Our questions were simple and must be answered simply and clearly. There is no answer, because it is a prerequisite for giving a sincere response to policy change. If Europe is our priority, then through the process of European integration, we must reform our country, improve political life, speed up economic reforms, affirm society. The only victim of a months-long debate in parliament will be the non-governmental sector that will be left without law. So many times we've said that the government has taken responsibility for the country's governance to change the country, not to continue to run Serbia along the tracks set in the past. There is no unity if the goal of unity is our mutual understanding, and the ignoring of life. Foreign policy is wrong, because it confrontations us with the world, confronts us with our neighbours, and it actually serves as an excuse for all internal incompetence. Since there is no minister, it is not polite to talk about it anymore, but I call on the government to make a statement by the end of the debate on the energy agreement with Russia and say is it ready to accept the LDP's suggestion, strengthened by the Constitutional Court's decision, and stop the process of talks with the Russian Federation, until the court gets an answer to the simple question: is the agreement in accordance with our Constitution or not, the same constitution that is a great front for each other's government initiative? Show respect for the Constitution by suspending negotiations with the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10804	Mr. Riza Halimi has a word, a group of minorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister and Minister, I've waited quite a while, I had an obligation, since I was mentioned twice during today's debate, so I have to explain it first. Let me first say, and that is known to be that I am not part of the parliamentary majority, I have not voted for this government, nor for the previous one, I have not voted for that first reason, not only am I not part of the parliamentary majority, but rather because the prime minister's exposure did not contain a single sentence on the minority problem. Then, I really don't see any reasons or motives for any dilemmas that have been presented today for my position when it comes to the law on the seat of courts and prosecutors. Through the amendment, and in principle I have expressed my views and the amendment requires correction of the proposal, and it is known that it is not accepted. Then, of course, like a number of other MPs, I asked here to withdraw the law and to offer a more serious proposal that would be acceptable to most. It's never been done before. Then why the dilemma, to appear with anyone who actively followed the sessions of this assembly, so that I could support a proposal that goes to the expense of the citizens of Presevo and Bujanovac municipalities, in this case when it comes to courts? Of course, as their legitimate representative, I could not possibly vote in favour of proposals returning that environment for at least a hundred years in an earlier period when it was not there. Another series of practical reasons, which I have already presented here in the debate, of course, obliging me not to support that law. However, today's debate, if I haven't voted, there is no reason to meddle in that story and I would not, firstly, support, in this case a motion to recall this government, because I still feel that it is necessary to give more time for this government to show itself in the realization of the programme it has submitted here, and that so far there has been insufficient time. In my view, I do not see any particular interest here in how much the government has so far had in achieving the programme, in solving life problems, but rather in today's discussion on another topic, which we have had four or five times the opportunity to talk about when it comes to the resolution on Kosovo. Here, apparently, the main word is Mr. Jeremic and Bogdanovic, and what about the others, what about the programmes of other ministries? As far as Eulexa is concerned, my position here is well known. We talk all the time about wanting to go to Europe, and rightly most of us here want to, that's what the interest is, we're part of Europe, we're part of that civilization, and we see an interest directly in solving the life problems of our citizens. All the laws that went that way and the next period and I'll probably still vote. I don't see any particular desire here to endure on that path and that we really want to integrate faster into European flows. I see here the main theme of how unique the Assembly is, is the absolute majority or is the gross relative majority here for one concept. If that's the main problem, not solving real life problems, then I see there's a missing topic here. I don't see at all why neither the representatives of this government, nor the previous governments, are taking over the mortgages they don't actually have. I absolutely don't see a single shade of difference between Mr Samardzic and Mr. Jeremic's views. If that is the main objective, gentlemen, this government and this Parliament have achieved the greatest singleness that can be achieved, if that is the problem, if it solves the situation or at all what is the problem of both this country and the people and the citizens of this country. I think there's a lot of trouble and I can see there's no mood to talk about it. We're talking about the Constitution and the laws, I was just proving when it was the law on courts, not to enforce the law, not to enforce the Constitution. It provides that the procedure can also be implemented in Albanian, and this is not in practice. The Kobajagi Albanians won't do it. Now the Albanians in Presevo, Bujanovac, the Medvedji voluntarily gave up the right that the Constitution of this country and the law provide for them and they voluntarily give up. Then there is no readiness for self-critics and to say how much conditions are created that really this constitutional law, theoretical law and in practice live. Let's move on, in 2001, the government predicted the integration of Albanians into the country's social, political and state system. Here I say, in Presevo with 90% of Albanians, only 47% make up Albanians among government officials at the municipal level. For the county not to talk, there's no living soul. In Bujanovac, with 55% of Albanians, only 21% are employed in state authorities and local self-government where they have primate because as most of them have a larger number of board members, only 31% of the administration employees and in all local institutions is an Albanian employee. When it comes to what Mr. Jeremic said earlier that there are problems in Kosovo over minority issues and that we have solved everything here. It absolutely doesn't stand. We're far from it. The second is that it is shown formally, theoretically, a completely different situation on the ground and practice on the ground. So what was defined as an objective in 2001, as a goal, has not been realized for eight years. There were positive results in that first government. The last two governments have abandoned the program. They're absolutely acting like everything's settled in the field. I now see instead of that programme that was to integrate Albanians into the budget proposal, it now says that in this case both through investment and through who knows what other activities, the Serb population is at risk. Now, in a situation where more than 12,000 citizens in these three municipalities in the 2002 census than in 1991, there are 10,700 Albanians less, 1,100 Serbs less, 700 Roma less. How does it occur to someone to point out only that the Serbs are being emigrated and that they care about the Roma and Albanians in the first place? There's state policy. Is this then affirming our state policy in international terms? What are the points like that? Let's move on, then let's see about security. Whether in the territory of this country in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji, where there is formally no state of emergency, he still speaks and controls Gendarmere. In Belgrade, it takes an hour or two to complete the task and withdraw. There's a good part of what the police took over, even part of the local police's competence takes over the Gendarmere. These days in the courtyards of the house where the weddings are held the entrance of the Gendarmere, the Kobajagi to protect. Where does this tradition get the police, and in this case, the gendarmes, to protect the man who has the wedding ceremony? I think there is a lot to talk about and talk about situations on the ground, and about minority rights, about the programme of the two governments themselves that took over in 2001, which has been blocked over a long period of time, and there is no political will to achieve the programme. Again, in the end, I point out that with votes and Albanians in this area, I came here to solve life's problems. For now, I'm telling you, I have the same role our representatives played from 1990 to 2000. It's just to bring up problems, not the possibility of them being solved. So I say, it is finally time to talk seriously about these topics, and Parliament is the best place to talk about it honestly and seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10806	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. The word has Mico Rogovic, the parliamentary group "Forward Serbia".
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10807	President-in-Office, the Honorable Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is democratic that you on my left in a period of five or six months ago formed most of the necessary for the work and ruling position of more than 126 MPs. It is democratic that we, members, i.e. We put opposition members on the agenda, and we really didn't do it, i.e. As part of the opposition, the Serbian Progressive Party, no one has asked, but we will take part in this and we will try not to criticise everything that you want to do. What is good for Serbia, we have no idea that we are criticising, what you have promised, and what you have not fulfilled, indeed, and how we, the MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, are going to talk about today. Before I go to the agenda point, I cannot help but look back at the words of Mr Arsenovic, who told and talked about the opportunities of some ancient times. Yes, but you're representatives of the political group, and I'm not saying that personally, but given the age structure of the population, you've felt good times in this country. Do not let others, children, children who will be born, prevent the possibility and honor our right to give them the opportunity to live better and have a good way from the pioneer alliance to the pensioners’ alliance. Dear President, I sincerely hope that in the next period of this esteemed home, I suppose and I hope, the bill on the ban on lying to the people will arrive. Why am I talking to this guy? We'll only remember the pre-election promises of this last government and Mr. Cvetkovic's exposé, and we can go back to 2006, 2003, and when you come to the turn, we can talk about it, and this guy's promises -- an increase in the number of employees, it's, no less or less, about a figure of 200,000 people. These days, some secret service, through its people who have bought mainly the Vojvodina firms, perform mass layoff actions and regardless of all the measures taken by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, without this intention and without the interference of the secret services, cannot be prevented from firing Serbian workers. Growth in employee income and pensions. If we compare pension growth and profit growth and domestic currency value decline, periodically, it ranges from 10 to 22% over the last two to three months. Bridges or miles of highways and all this when I say this, I note once again that Serbia needs both highways and investments, but in our exhibitions, we only look back on promises and what you should have done. Of these promises, related to bridges and highways, a tour of Belgrade has been opened periodically and phased, and we are followed by arbitration for the Horgos-Požega highway, and Serbia is known to be missing, unfortunately, some successes in international arbitration. The embrace of Europe and visa-free travel; and we from the SNP have nothing against this, but that is, is our administration and our services ready to issue new travel documents to citizens? That's what we're sure of. Biggest, like a mountain lie, business with the Fiat. The promised production of several million cars a year. It is certain that the number of cars will be around 58,000. Several thousand agreed jobs, to a figure of 400 people, which will form, according to the Minister of Economy and Regional Development, a small car, is likely to be "full". The role of "Fiyat" in the start of 700 million and the state of 200m euros, until our state assumes an 80 per cent commitment, which, you will have to admit, is a huge burden for our state administration, and 20% of the Italian firm, which has not provided a guarantee of that amount to this day, counting on likely to receive funds from EU funds for this job. Stealing is an act that is legally sanctioned, but the law doesn't apply to us when it comes to grand thefts. This comes when, in the phase of oblivion, they come out of the consciousness of election promises and lies, and it comes as a top-notch operation. With all this, high-ranking civil servants and these days say that the crisis has a phenomenon of psychological nature and that the rights are just about to arrive. Others, after a unanimously adopted restrictive budget in the government, say we should go to a new political dialogue. It's all about the same members. about members of the same government. The most powerful countries are making plans to prevent the collapse of the banking and stock exchange system, the collapse of the automotive and complete industry, the drastic relaxation of workers and take a number of measures, such as VAT reduction, extension of credit repayment deadlines, reduction of state administration. The downsizing of the world's most massive apparatus, that's probably not what you and your ministers are thinking. The government consists of 25 ministries, 111 agencies, republican authorities and funds and planned 61 advisers. To all these words by the President of the Republic, who speaks of work and responsibility for work. Do you think anyone capable of coordinating this number of people and in such a large number of organs? The question is, how many employees are in such a machine, i.e. An army of administration. For all developed countries, a 25 ministry apparatus, 111 republican funds, agencies and 61 advisers is a mental noun. And you'll have to agree, regardless of the financial crisis in those countries and the situation with us, that the standard of the countries of the West and ours is still incomparable. Unfortunately, in all these problems and in this bush for you from the government does not lie a rabbit. All the problems in the public and the media are being served blockages of the work of the National Assembly, obstructions in its work, the same home that has been warning you for years and calling for affairs of the type Bojan Kristo, and all other affairs that existed before this government. You are making proposals and laws that are not very urgent on European standards, and that the relevant proposals in the area are not yet on the agenda. As you do with the 2009 draft budget. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, I must remind you once again that today is not the day for the Parliament's trust, today is the day for a vote of mistrust to the government. Thank you very much. During this speech, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10808	I thank Mr. Rogovic. Mr. Free Marash, LDP, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10809	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of Ministers, Mr Cvetkovic, the key pre-election promise that eventually formed this government was - European integration. Unfortunately, it's unfulfilled. I just wanted to say two words to Mr Samardzic about it. Mr Samardzic, it is true that the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic was then Cedomir Jovanovic when Mr Zivkovic said in 2003 that we would be in Europe in 2007. But if he really knew that Mr. Kostunica would be the prime minister for four years, he would say 2077. Serbia enters Europe. This is no excuse for Mr Cvetkovic and for these slow European integrations. Unfortunately, Mr. Cvetkovic, I'm afraid you've turned a lot more to Russia. We see this best through this agreement, which was initially an oil-gas agreement, an agreement with the Russian Federation, for which we definitely, every day and most of the government itself, we get confirmation that it is not in the interest of the Republic of Serbia. The LDP was also against the agreement for several key reasons before the agreement arrived in the Assembly and during the debate and after the debate: the first key reason is that the provisions of the Constitution which speak of freedom of the market, the provisions of the Constitution that speak of competition, the way natural resources are used, and, Mr Dulic, the protection of the environment. We were also against this agreement because it is directly contrary to the Stabilisation, Association Agreement and the very essence of European integration. Therefore, the LDP submitted an initiative to protect the legality and constitutionality of the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, this government has won, by ratification in parliament of this agreement, the authority to conclude a contract on the construction of a pipeline, a contract to build a Banatski Dvor warehouse and to conclude a NIS sales contract 51%. We protested for that, too. No country that is scheduled in this future South Stream has sold its refinery - 51%. But what happened after the ratification? According to one of the ministers and vice-presidents of the government of the Republic of Serbia, there has been a change in the platform. The change in the platform is based on a protocol signed on the same day the agreement was signed in Moscow. However, the protocol was never even in front of the MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly, so we have also recently claimed that MPs were deceived when they discussed the agreement. After that, the government unauthorizedly decides to conclude only a 51% NIS sale contract. We have long believed that it was Russia's support when it came to Kosovo, however, we are now deeply convinced that it was a commitment taken by the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic towards the now prime minister of the Russian Federation, Mr Putin, and that for this reason only NIS is currently being sold. The resignations of the negotiating team's chiefs when it comes to the agreement, now oil only, and members of the negotiating team, or the changes that have taken place, and the fact that the foreign minister's chief of staff is coming to talk best about the agreement itself. This agreement is not an economic agreement, and it is particularly not economically profitable for Serbia. This agreement is a purely political agreement, we heard it from MPs from the ruling coalition. For geopolitical reasons, it is necessary to sign the sale of NIS 51%. Unfortunately, Mr Cvetkovic is not currently in the O.R., but I hope his fellow ministers will tell him that the LDP continues to require that the final decision of the Constitutional Court be awaited by our initiative, which we asked to assess the constitutionality and legality of the agreement with the Russian Federation. If a 51% NIS contract is signed, we think the government will make a huge mistake, a mistake that will not be possible to correct, and we fear that such a move will surely violate the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10810	Thank you. Ms. Elena Christmas-Talian, the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10811	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Presidency, gentlemen of the Ministers, the state and national interests of Serbia are at stake on the very basis. The current regime, headed by Boris Tadic, has begun the process of recognising Kosovo's unlawfully declared independence and should be clearly and openly told to Serbian citizens. The government has changed state policy towards KIM under the pressures of Brussels and Washington, and is ready to give up the southern Serbian province on behalf of Serbia's uncertain entry into the EU. The authorities continue to deceive citizens that the issue of EU entry and the question of KIM are two separate issues, despite clear conditions and messages coming from the West. The EU has no intention and does not want to talk to Serbia as an equal partner. On the contrary, it is entirely obvious that the EU's intention and willingness to completely undermine Serbia's territorial integrity. The regime, headed by Boris Tadic, has been conducting secret negotiations for months on the acceptance and deployment of the illegal Eulex mission. This is a key reason that all these months, the ruling majority has refused to put on the agenda a debate on the KIM resolution, which would clearly define the relationship to Kosovo's independence and EULEX. I will remind you only of Mrs Nada Kolundzhija's statement, given at the time when the government's proposal for a resolution on Kosovo was put on the agenda, and the statement reads: the essence of our resolution on Kosovo is that it does not endanger our Euro-integration. So if someone thought that this resolution on KIM was meant to be about showing the state's clear position in defending territorial integrity, he was mistaken. On the basis of this, we see that the goal of their resolution on Kosovo was exactly what their overall policy is, which is to show Serbia's idolatrous attitude towards the EU. The mandate of Eulexa is precise, it is the implementation of Ahtisaari's plan, which envisions Kosovo's independence, the implementation of the Constitution and the law and the so-called state of Kosovo. The Eulex mission is unacceptable and its recognition must be rejected by anyone whose goal is to protect Serbia's territorial integrity. Every other explanation or explanation, and we have listened to them in recent months, about some Serbian conditions under which this mission is acceptable, aims only to deceive citizens. Total nonsense is the claim by the ruling majority's representatives that EULEX does not apply Ahtisaari's plan, as well as today's attempt by Minister Jeremic to convince us. Doris Pack, head of the European Parliament's delegation to Southeast Europe, points out that EULEX is an executive body that should help meet the conditions set out in Ahtisaari's plan. Further, he says, the contents of Ahtisaari's plan are also in the Kosovo Constitution. How pointless the current regime's claim that Eulex is not implementing Ahtisaari's plan is also the answer of US analyst Daniel Server. To the question of journalists -- if Eulex starts working under a new agreement that covers Serbian conditions, would that mean that Eulex is actually becoming a new mission and not a mission designed by Martti Ahtisaari, Daniel Server has provided a very plastic explanation. He says, if you call a horse's tail a leg, how many legs does that horse have? Eulex is the Eulex, the server concludes. The government is trying to cover up the real task and mandate of the Eulexa flossula about the alleged status neutrality of Eulex. By legalising Eulex, the UN Unmik mission is abolished. The UN mission is the only mission envisioned by Resolution 1244 and it is the only mission that respects Serbia's territorial integrity. So the regime advocates abolishing a UN mission that respects Serbia's territorial integrity and acceptance of a mission that does not respect Serbia's territorial integrity and tasked with ensuring Kosovo's independence. The ruling structure also praised the alleged diplomatic success that it managed to act on a UN Security Council decision on the presence of the Eulex mission in Kosovo. I would remind you that this was exactly the proposal of UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon at a Security Council session held on 21 June this year. The proposal was not accepted by Russia, China, Indonesia and Vietnam. It is Ki Mun's plan, which implies the so-called redefining of the Unmik mission, which essentially means the gradual abolition of the UN mission and the takeover of competence by Kosovo institutions and Eulex. The EU's plan, which neither the UN Security Council approved at the June 21st session, was enthusiastically accepted. It is this Ban Ki Moon's plan that implies encouraging dialogue between Pristina and Belgrade on practical issues. So it involves those six points we've been hearing so much about lately. This co-operation on so-called practical things actually leads to an effective recognition of unilaterally declared independence. I will also remind you that what Boris Tadic spoke at that session on June 21st about this Ban Ki Mun's plan and his proposals are diametrically contrary to what Tadic is saying today. At that session, he said, "The UN mission is not over." In other words, it has not fulfilled its mandate and under such circumstances the UN neither can nor leave Kosovo. Tadic has polluted and with Ban's thesod, the Kosovo Constitution is so designed to seek UNMIK's temporary civilian administration, to take away effective powers. Tadic noted: Such uplifting of Unmik's mandate raises concerns, also concerns the fact that the report also gives the impression of a silent violation of Resolution 1244. When it comes to government officials' claims that Ahtisaari's plan has been buried by an agreement on six points reached by Minister Jeremic and Boris Tadic, it is enough to quote Alexander Ivanko, a spokesman for Unmik, as of 3 December this year to make it clear to everyone that this is also a public deception. ''Euleks will begin with a quick deployment and Unmik will quickly retreat. You'll see fewer and fewer Unmik cops and then when the EULEX schedules completely unmik cops won't even be there anymore. ''I don't know if you've been able to see part of the interview given yesterday by the head of Unmika Zannier, who was published today. He made it very clear there will be no six points. The decisions to be made will be strictly in co-ordination with the government in Pristina. So, all what the current government represents as a strategy for the defence of KIM is actually a strategy for the indirect recognition of Kosovo's independence. Serbia's entry into the EU will be uninterrupted, from The Hague through Kosovo's status, then the issue announced by German Ambassador Cobel for Vojvodina's status, then possibly Raska districts, Vranjska koolina, an area they call Presevo Valley. Until Serbia fully territorially disintegrates and reduces to Belgrade's pasture, it will not be desirable for the EU. Whether or not the EU will exist then, it is a completely different issue. EU High Representative Javier Solana indirectly acknowledged that the issue of KIM recognition would be a condition for Serbia to join the EU. In early July, German Minister for Europe Guenter Glosser said -- Serbia will have to recognise KIM's independence to join the EU. Serbia should support the EU's process in Kosovo to support pro-European processes in Serbia. Similar threats came from Chancellor Angela Merkel's party. This was precisely and clearly sent to Serbia and in the latest annual report by the European Commission. "Serbia should take a constructive approach towards Kosovo's participation in regional initiatives and international forums. "This puts additional pressure on Belgrade to recognise Kosovo's independence. The big problem with EU entry is the fact that any public debate and the face-to-face of arguments on the issue has been blocked. Citizens do not have the right picture of what it means to join the EU, there are no facts available to them. We were literally bombed by a Euro-blessing propaganda. We have not analyzed the fact that the EU has shaken, the fact that the Irish have rejected the Lisbon Agreement. Why did they turn him down? What bothers the Irish in this euro-blessing thing? A sharp rise in labour from Eastern European countries has led to a decline in profits and decline in standards. For an ordinary man, an increase in the single market means a fall in profits. The single market favours large capital and multinational corporations. That's what the Irish understood, and that's the fact that the government wants to hide from the citizens. It is a long list of promises the current regime led by Boris Tadic made, and absolutely nothing has been fulfilled. The ruling coalition has torn the country down territorially and has led to economic collapse. Worst of all, there is absolutely no responsibility for all the wrong moves, for the deception of citizens, for the politics of personal interests being carried out across the coat of arms of the people. We have been brought up to this point that there is no longer a question of how to enable citizens to have a more decent life, a more decent life, but how to ensure a mere survival, how to survive this complete economic collapse that has been brought by the current government, and all on behalf of a future uncertain European well-being. You have created an army of unemployed, poor, miserable, humiliated, who you have inflicted on this torment and the guilt that they themselves are guilty of all that has come upon them. That's what they're called. The losers of transition, as if it were something that was inevitable and that had to happen to them. There's no responsibility for you again. The current regime has so far met all requirements that have come from the West, and there is no shift when it comes to improving citizens' standards. On the contrary, only the sunflower. In the end, I will list part of an article by Branko Radun -- an old Serbian political thought, which affects the very essence of the matter. In this article, he quotes the contents of the Nazi poster from the time of occupation during World War II, and his source is Dr. Koste Nikolic's book "German War Post in Serbia in 1941-1945". It is an amazing coincidence of the historical situation and the propaganda used. Radun cites what is written on a poster -- Serbia must become a member of the European family. Serbia is not an isolated island. Serbia is an integral part of Europe. Then it follows that without a European community, there is no life for anyone in Serbia. I quote - Serbs, you rightly want a better future, and it is in Europe. The Serbian people will become a member of the great European community. Serbia will no longer be a monetizer, a new, better life will begin. The work will be valued and respected private property. There will be no fear of new wars and people will commit themselves to raising prosperity. Because of the incredible coincidence, I stress once again, these are not the messages that are being sent to citizens by Boris Tadic, Minister Jeremic, Mladjan Dinkic and others, so this is the content of the Nazi poster from the time of occupation during World War II. In this article, Radun perfectly accurately and accurately identifies and defines what the goal of this propaganda was during World War II, what it is today, and the goal is the same. It's a spiritual and mental breakdown of will, breaking every resistance imposed by unfair solutions, it's a campaign to impose a shameful defetism that is trying to achieve, a fatalistic acceptance of everything they plan to do in these areas as historic inevitables, and unfortunately it will not end in Kosovo. Radun points out -- as it is today, and then it is said that there will be investment and jobs in new Europe for our people and that Serbia will prosper if it accepts the current situation as inevitable, it should only forget the parts of its territory and parts of its people outside Serbia's captives. Such capitulation is presented as a realistic policy. As then, it is said today that any resistance is in vain and that Europe has no alternative. So the question arises in the end - how long has your EU mantra brought us? If you have not already provided an argument on this subject, here is a question that is being raised - why has this European paradise led to a riot in Greece and France? In the wake of the European prosperity of young education systems, the overall economic situation, the fear of a uncertain future, why? These are the problems that the model, which you impose as a model that has no alternative, has not given an adequate answer. It's unemployment, low earnings, inadequate social protection. So this attitude towards the citizens, towards the workers, cannot be tolerated. This attitude towards national interests cannot be tolerated. This government must be held accountable and, more specifically, this government must fall because it has completely destroyed this country economically and territorially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10812	Thank you. Instead of Mr. Djorđa Milicevic, the word is Dejan Radenkovic SPS-JS. Within the same parliamentary group, I have been asked for one change, and I have done so, as I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10813	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, the EULEX mission at KIM is being deployed according to the UN's decision, which respected all Serbia's demands to keep the mission status neutral, not to implement Marty Ahtisaari's plan and to respect Resolution 1244 of the Security Council. The arrival of this mission means that Marty Ahtisaari's plan was finally put in an ad act. We expect EULEX to deal with issues that are extremely important for the Serb animal in KIM. It's a technical mission, not a political mission. This means that it should deal with life issues extremely important for the survival of Serbs in the province. Is the Serbian Government's policy wrong, as it was heard from this pay phone today, or is it a policy that really wants to protect the interests of Serbs in KIM and Serbia's interests, I think it is high time that, above all, in the interests of the survival of Serbs in KIM, we are going to implement a policy in which we will not engage with the world, which we will not make enemies and that will not divide us into righteous and sinners. I honestly believe that no one in this room cares about Serbia falling apart, losing its territory, but the interest of all the country's progress. The Eulex mission is status neutral, not implementing the Martti Ahtisaari plan, and it is claimed by the leaders of this mission, and it is claimed by the UN. On the contrary, only Albanian politicians and part of the Serbian opposition speak. Why? I understand that it is in the interest of Albanian political oligarchy, but I wonder why it is in the interest of someone in Serbia to revitalise Marty Ahtisaari's plan. Such a debate, of course, is echoed in the southern Serbian province. It brings additional confusion to Serbs in KIM space. Who's using this? Opposition parties to whom KiM serve as an instrument of party struggle. In this House, it should be clear to everyone that KIM is not a party, but a national and national issue of the utmost importance. Please let us all be aware of that. It is up to us to choose whether we are going to keep giving auto goals, whether we are going to use KiM only for party purposes or we want the southern province and the position of Serbs in it by burning down customs checkpoints and embassies, by creating chaos, by inciting fear, or by choosing a second time, which is the way of peace, reason and conversation. Are we going to leave actions on Kosovo's defence to fans or are we going to have a long-term state strategy and serious plans, diplomatic, economic and political struggle for KIM? The political conditions for the arrival of Mission Eulex have been met and we have a great deal to do. The arrival of this mission will significantly boost Serbia's influence in the southern Serbian province. I think Serbia should strengthen ties to the province's peacekeeping mission. Our relationship with Eulex will depend on his work and his behavior. If Eulex performs his tasks and solves burning problems, he can count on support, serious co-operation and support from the Serbian state. I believe that together we will be able to facilitate Kosovo's everyday life. The main motive is to correct historical injustices, to ensure complete security for everyone at KIM, to return to everyone the property that is usurped, but also to bring those who have committed crimes to the face of an impartial and objective judiciary. Our goal is to achieve the rule of law, total freedom for the most vulnerable, and these are for the kiM Serbs. The goal is life without fear and anxiety in KIM space. We expect EULEX to take a serious step in ensuring the safety of Serbs and all those who are at risk of KIM. We also expect Eulex to ensure freedom of movement, legal freedom, return of usurped property and help the process of returning more than 200,000 displaced persons. The Eulex's task is to curb all kinds of crime and extremism in the southern province, which are the main cause of Serbian living insecurity. I especially believe that Eulex must oppose, first of all, ethnically motivated crime. Please, don't make it difficult for us to make the position of Serbs in KIM space difficult. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10814	Thank you, Mr. Radenkovic. Here you go, Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10815	Dear People's MPs, I have come to the floor only because of one illusion that the ruling majority, in fact the government is spreading around the employment of Eulex to KIM, and it's just been said by my predecessor. He said the decision on Eulex was actually a UN decision. My question is to him, and who wants from the ruling majority and the Ministers who are here to tell me - what is the UN decision on the basis of which EULEX is deployed to KIM? Given that the UN will control EULEX, which we also heard a little bit, just to read you a statement by Eve de Kermabon, head of Mission Eulex at KIM. That statement was made on December 6th, days before the stand-off for Eulex was approved, and he said the following -- my chain of command is clear, that is the EU; and I will work towards this clear mandate and not take orders from the UN, but from EU foreign security chief Javier Solana. The question is simple and clear -- on what basis is the UN's EULEX deployed to KIM?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10816	Thank you. Ms. Aleksandra Jankovic, MP of the NS. Your task force has four minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10817	God helps, Serbian citizens. (Glass from the bench: God help you.) ) On the eve of one of the greatest Serbian fames, St. Nicholas, we have come to the situation that in the Assembly, which looks more and more like Big Brother's house, we finally see ministers who seem to have fallen out of television, such a sweet, sweet jump, marketingly shaped. Only the fact-finding prime minister, otherwise a multiple political figure, leading both Serbia and the government and the government's commission, is missing. The beautiful Bora is not there, but rather shows the absence of the body, but also the presence of the spirit, especially in the image of his favorite student and good boy, who with Lavrov has long been on "you", since he has a huge diplomatic experience. A huge part of today's debate on government's mistrust resembled the match, the government against Samardzic, and the young Wolf definitely, with the blessing of a beautiful Bora, was promoted to the new prime minister. We were a little surprised by his jasty, but the boy has world manners, so he took off his moves, probably looks and listens to hip-hop, and he must not fail the expectations of the former classmate, at the cost of Serbia becoming an accomplice to the so-called recognition. An independent Kosovo. "I have agreed, I will be all I want" -- in the hip-hop version, it is obviously a song by a young wolf who is persistently trying to convince us that the fact that EULEX has deployed in Kosovo is totally cool and neutral, because we will once get a positive opinion from the International Court of Justice, in this or the life of the future century, that only one can say that good theologian who explained today that a real Serb is going to church three times. I only have one dilemma. If this is how he yells at us who are his people, how does he treat Americans and Shiptar terrorists? Let him try rapping and yelling. Maybe he scares them harder. We haven't exactly been able to hear it from the formal prime minister, and now we don't see it, let alone understand it, and I'm founded to say that it's not just because I'm blonde. Either there are a lot of blondes in Serbia, or the prime minister gets so little involved in his business, they don't follow him or even listen to these assigned ministers. As St. Nicholas mentioned, in whose evening we speak, had a real debate at the First Village Assembly, it could even be said that there was a conflict with those who spread heretic interpretations, very dangerous for the people, and so today, at this assembly-government assembly, we are tasked with demystifying the government, which is the former, and believe me, for a short time and future Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, correctly said he would not be able to deal with the crisis. I know you're reacting to him, that's why I'm mentioning him. So, the former and soon-to-be Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica has rightly said that he will not be able to deal with this crisis government, which is global and will last at least two years, because it is incompetent, and already now we have the crisis run by the government instead of the government managing the crisis. The problem is that from the moment this government was formed has been in crisis, because it is made up of so many diverse elements of which each has its own indigenous ambitions and desires, that it can never function as a cohesive organism to solve the real life problems of citizens. I believe that the Prime Minister himself, especially in the situation of the discovery of the last G17 minus affair, had to complain to his mentors in Washington: Gentlemen, we created Frankenstein. This global crisis has come as an ace to the 11th incompetent, discreet and autistic government. Now everything can be transferred to the coming crisis, and the ministers will again be able to, as in July of the month... (President: Time. ) relax with new passports and visas, which have never been a problem for them, according to the world’s stress relief centres. If something goes wrong, then the people press them for their mistakes, in the end there's always a syndrome - Kristo, hit the money, it's well loaded, and then you get into a plane out of the country you're sick of. Just in the end, to prove that New Serbia is not an unconstructive opposition, I will divide the present ministers from the government, there are six left, which is a beautiful figure, God forbid that it is just like that, two flyers from a series of our enlightening fliers, which we shared on Sundays in front of the "Russian Emperor" and which are called "See, Wake up, Wake up".
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10818	National MP Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10819	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers of Government, I am a little sick and tired, as Momir Vojvodić spoke to you in time. Because the discussion is declassified, because it's actually over before it's even open. The moment we had a quorum at the beginning of this session, it proved not that there was no quorum needed to hold this session, but that the proposer did not have the small, third-rate quorum needed to continue the session. It is only to warn the President of the Assembly that the government is appealing to the assembly majority MPs to discuss this proposal with the quorum, the session is at all possible. There is no doubt about it, the government's tolerance and the congregation's majority were demonstrated, but apparently all those expectations on which it must have been a proposal to discuss this today fell into the water. I hope so, like many who celebrate tomorrow, not exactly that we're going straight home to liturgy, but it's very possible it's going to happen just like that. This just means that obstructing assembly sessions by endlessly calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure is not the result of disorientation of the congregation's majority, but of the fact that the presidency and president of the Assembly commit themselves to respecting the principles of tolerance. This confirms the most obvious fact that this debate is only being held because the government wants to hear it. If that's the case, then let's pay more attention than usual to the subject and the reasons on which it was called. It would be said at the beginning, when there is a way of coming forward, without any malignancy, quite frankly after a discussion of the representatives of the parliamentary group, spontaneously with Mr. Stevanovic, when he first called for the word "proposer," I assumed he was calling to withdraw the proposal. However, on the basis of the discussions that followed, there was an impression, whether it might be considered not some kind of instability of the government, and that someone would like to recommend themselves to the government and whether such very unprincipled accusations are actually a very discreet form of recommendation and by the way pointing to a place that could possibly be filled with an interested candidate. To a place whose, I'll discuss it a little later, because literally the discussion in the most part is being intonated as if on the agenda it wasn't a matter of trust with the government, but rather a problem in the way of a resolution ministry. The promoter himself is very consistent with the content of his proposal and without any malpractice, I will honestly comment that I think that this is basically about a tragic misunderstanding, a tragic misunderstanding with reality, and tragically by that concept that the trait of tragic heroes is that, regardless of what side of the plot and outcome, everyone is right. So there is no doubt that there is a lot of truth in the arguments put forward by the promoter. I have had the pleasure of reading these days the book of the Prime Minister of the previous two governments, the president of the proposing party, Dr Vojislav Kostunica "The Defence of Kosovo" and I must confess that I read it with satisfaction. It's hard to find the truth, the lack, the weak place. On the contrary, it also preys in a certain way, but it must be noted that its political value is not so. She simply does not drink water in that context. The question was, when the rules of the game are broken, the one that's hit in a game that doesn't go according to the rules can really be declared to leave the game and to move on to another discipline and to commit yourself to another game, but when the game is totalizing, the question arises: are you staying in or out of it? It is essential for Serbia to remain in play, to stay in the game to preserve its perspective. To be quite honest and open, to leave an epimetic concept of perception in the past, to repent its old, but to devote itself to the last moment, to the possible choice of future and commitment to it. If we were to open this issue to the end, we would see that many significant arguments in the debate did not appear even in earlier periods, because one of the motives, as I understood the promoter, is that this and the way to open up a public discussion on a subject that is likely to be unjustly, maliciously, tendingly, by the congregation's majority suppressed from the public debate and from the Parliament's agenda. I will remind you, Mr Samardzic himself, as well as Mr Popovic knows about it, as well as some representatives of the current assembly majority, that, in time, together with the NGO, the Serbian-American Centre, the town of Kragujevac, has formed a Centre for the Thinking of the National Strategy, which acts as a forum of this organisation. He held many sessions of public and working discussions, among other things, on this subject. Mr Samardzic was a guest at the Centre for National Strategy. A number, now deliberately mentioning this publication so that unnecessary animosities would not be involved, New Serbian political missions even published a discussion from the public session of the Centre, in which you have one contribution that I am trying to apostrophy and bring out, but somehow it could not enter the public debate. There are questions that have never been opened. How much, in fact, calls for an identity approach to Kosovo's subject, pathetically motivated by the rely on folk mythology and the overall tradition, indeed in any case with reality. Try to try to think from hypothetical assumptions, let's say, in the international context of Serbia's obligation to fully integrate, sovereignty in all Serbia's territory, it has an obligation to guarantee the human rights of all its citizens, as well as all other constitutional and law-defined rights. How do you imagine this situation? The state of Serbia is struggling to deal with the mafia in its own ranks, in its territory. How do you estimate her odds in the reckoning with one of the most organized mobs in Europe? Given demographic population flows, what prospects you give to the future and generation that would be 15 years of age now a national minority, if we talk about a generation of Serb 15-year-olds. Not to open up such painful and difficult questions that are under-discussed and strategically considered at all. The fact is that at this point, maintenance in reality has been targeted by the definition of a development perspective, a moment based on an open choice option. It was once said here that the collapse of unity that existed in the government in politics towards Kosovo and Metohija, along the lines of those that have been defined for Kosovo and Metohija and allegedly those that have been defined for Europe and Europe's Serbia. Didn't, if that's the line, and the citizens on that line were identifying themselves. Did we interpret, understand and accept the message that was then made? The message is, again, an emphasis, in the difference between this epimetical and traffic-respective and perspective view of the world and the possibilities that stand before us. These reasons are contained in topics that, indeed, someone says mantra, are the easiest to formulate as a European definition, but they are most precisely recognized as topics concerning living standards, development, economic opportunities, increasing investment, raising opportunities for economic success and living standards for Serbian citizens, and its perspectives. Isn't there a reason why, right away as a topic on the subject of Kosovo, it doesn't attack any less, not more than directly, a minister who is recognizable by engagement in the area and a resolute Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, which he is leading? It seems to be happening exactly on the basis that he most precisely formulated the other night on one of the, as Mr. Aligrudic, vampire sessions we had, as Mr. Todorovic, the head of the SRS parliamentary group, said explicitly here, and you can check that in a stenogram, that he did not attack Mladjan Dinkic as to why he was obsessed with it, but as a personification of democratic changes in Serbia. It seems to open up topics that talk a little more about the causes of this debate and when there are no prospects, unless it counts with some marketing effects. From there, they seem to be re-connecting the topics with the once-in-a-lifetime misalignment, such as the topic of the energy-gas agreement. Look, it's actually a non-disciplinary interpretation that, as an MP for the G17+ Group, I have to deny. How can you say that Minister Dinkic or the G17+ parliamentary group is against the energy-gas agreement when we voted to ratify the agreement? The differences in vision that have arisen in relation to one segment of the agreement, and that is the wonder of the one that is our concession to the benefits of the other two that the agreement offers and promises, are precisely because it wants to endure not on one partial arrangement, but on what the agreement confirms. That seems a lot different than what you can hear here. It's even more unclear how the NIS theme could have been at least associated with the Fiat theme. On the one hand, you have NIS, which is actually one of the richest companies and the biggest winner in the country, and on the other hand, Fiat and the solution to Fiat's problem, companies that represent one of the biggest burdens of domestic economy and which, during the restructuring period, sucked about half a billion euros for subsidies only to support it. Or perhaps the fact that, in the case of NIS, as a potential buyer, an interested Russian partner appears, and here in the case of Fiat, we are talking about the partnership of the state and representatives of the European Union. Does the whole topic of updating Kosovo and Metohija positions of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Minister Mladjan Dinkic, then NIS and Fiat want to redefine a strategic foreign-political context in which the state of Serbia should understand? Some of the MPs, the proposing's representatives, are nodding their heads, so they're probably suggesting they are. I can only tell you that these are issues that should not be so easily opened at all times, as they are to whom they are to whom they represent, which in their basics have strategic decisions on which citizens have already declared themselves. It is precisely because it is undoubtedly the European definition of this government and what is undoubtedly its relationship to the future of generations to come, it enjoys the support and political parties Together for the Kragujevac, which I belong to, and the G17+ parliamentary group, within which it participates in the work of the national parliament. It's just that this whole debate that gets involved in this side-by-side topic that, I say, is over before it's open, as if it confirms the rule that the head that tickles the most should hit and get, and it's not hard to bear if we understand what it's really about. To define that I will use a metaphor that is not at all gentle, but please take it extremely seriously. Indeed, Serbia, and for those who have lost their hearing with reality, that may sound the hardest, is much like a three-generation house: Grandpa, father and grandson. The house, alas, has walled windows and the grandson would be the only one in it to break through the wall and open the windows, but they don't give him grandpa and dad. Grandpa and Dad because the light wouldn't come into the house and it wouldn't be seen that the house was full of corpses from Dad's enthusiasm from one chauvinistic drunkenness and grandfather's revolutionary enthusiasm. That child is still growing in the dark, in the breath of dead bodies. "Together for Kragujevac" supports this government, along with the MP group G17 plus, precisely because he thinks that, until he sees that he supports the European perspective, and stands on the side of this youngest citizen of the mentioned house, to remove the walls once from the window, to open the windows, the sacred and smell of the wide open world enters this house.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10820	National MP Vladimir Milentijevic, the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10821	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, today's debate on the motion to vote for mistrust with the Government of the Republic of Serbia has shown largely that we are deeply divided. We are most divided when it comes to the problem of the southern Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija and Mission Eulex. Since I live in Kosovo and Metohija, I will mostly look back on this issue. To explain to you how long the state of Serbia had the state continuity in solving problems in Kosovo and Metohija, I will return to the period from February 17th. You know very well that on February 17th, the Assembly of the province of Kosovo declared Kosovo an independent republic. After that, respecting the strict constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Resolution 1244, the assembly declared all decisions declared by the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly invalid. Meanwhile, neither the UN special envoy in Kosovo and Metohija nor the UN Security Council has annulled such a decision, but has just backed Kosovo's independence. This was done by 22 EU countries, both done by the United States and has already gone with pressure on Serbia to accept Mission Eulex, which exclusively aims to implement the Martti Ahtisaari plan, which is to create an independent Kosovo. In this situation, the government of the Republic of Serbia has a clear condition: EULEX and independent Kosovo or the EU. The majority in the government at the time prevailed that it was much more important in the EU than to be clearly determined by Mission Eulex, as it is clear to everyone and today that Mission Eulex was aimed at implementing an independent state of Kosovo. There has been a break-up and the government of the Republic of Serbia has fallen. So the government fell because of Mission Eulex. There was a new election, new elections gave what they gave. And now I don't think the citizens voted for this majority, but okay, it was created, after all, the way it was created. The government was elected as it was elected and the government of the Republic of Serbia was established on July 7th. I calculated that on July 10th, when the government of the Republic of Serbia recognised in its conclusion the formation of the Community Assembly of municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija, that the new government continues state continuity when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. I'm going to have to quote you the reasons why the government adopted the conclusion, not to read this out front. "From such a position of Kosovo and Metohija, all state authorities, including the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have a constitutional obligation to represent and protect the state interests of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija; that the Assembly of the Community of Kosovo and Metohija was established on 28 June 2008 in Kosovo Mitrovica, with the presence of MPs from 25 municipalities of Kosovo and Metohija, based on the results of local elections; that the Assembly of the Community of Kosovo and Metohija was established on the basis of the results of the election of the units of local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija, held on 11 May 2008, which was announced by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; that, following a unique, illegal declaration of independence of Kosovo, and the so-called National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, etc. Kosovo's constitution, the need for both Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to be institutionally organised" etc. "For these reasons, the government draws conclusions on supporting the establishment of the Community Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija. ''Stav 1: ''It is supported by the establishment of the Assembly of the Community of Kosovo and Metohija, which was founded on 28 June 2008 in Kosovo Mitrovica." It was the last document, which means July 7th, 2008, adopted by the government. Unlike the government, the Assembly has not adopted any documents. On July 10th, the government of the Republic of Serbia submitted a motion for a resolution to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the continuity of state policy in relation to Kosovo and Metohija. That's the content. You remember well that this content did not have a key problem, which is Mission Eulex. The proposal was sent to the July 10th assembly procedure. The consultations were held for three months, consent, national and political, not for the adoption of this resolution. I will reiterate that the assembly majority did not have 126 MPs for this proposed resolution, and the government of the Republic of Serbia has withdrawn the proposal. The DSS, NS and SRS parliamentary groups submitted their proposal for a resolution on the Eulex mission. The proposal was also submitted by the LDP parliamentary group. Both were removed from the agenda because there was no political will to discuss the subject of Eulex and KIM at all. We have another major absurdity in the very Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since its constitution, the KiM Committee has not had a single session. Seven months since the establishment of the KIM Committee Assembly has not worked. Is it some kind of obstruction not to discuss the situation at KIM? Yes, it is. On July 4th, a motion for a vote of no confidence was submitted to the government of the Republic of Serbia. At that time and until then, no one knows, at least from us on this right, what kind of negotiations are being conducted on the Eulex mission, who is negotiating on the Eulex mission, what is it he's negotiating. We don't know what kind of agreement has been reached today or today. I don't know what time the MPs were looking for the document today on the agreement between Belgrade and Ban Ki Moon. I think it's something inadmissible. After all, the Eulex mission was deployed throughout Kosovo and when we accepted the deployment, when the mission was completed, today we only have a day to discuss all these topics that were to be discussed six months ago. What is particularly concerned is the 2009 draft budget law when it comes to the AP KIM. We are concerned for many reasons, because the new budget from 2008 has reduced the budget by 35%, where personal incomes have been reduced by 20% and social contributions by 90%. That's what worries us a lot. I ask what is the intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to reduce the KIM budget by 35% when we have the most people who need personal income and social contributions? With the government's decision and conclusion, on the day of Kosovo's declaration of independence, all police officers, judges and all those who were in Kosovo institutions, they were withdrawn from those institutions. And today, we do not have a clear intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this is evident from the 2009 Budget Proposal, that these people who are then withdrawn for known reasons will receive salaries and will have compensation of that kind. Mr. Minister, I trust you, but the data that I've provided speaks differently. If the budget is down 35%, I don't think it'll be able to make up for everything that's lost. True, there are clear reasons why this government needs to be voted out of confidence, and that is too much to say that KIM has no attitude, no relationship and has distanced itself from the citizens of KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10822	I thank Mr. Milentievich. The word is Miss Smiljana Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10823	Respected National Assembly presidents, respected ministers, respected MPs, our fellow and opposition friends are today criticising the ruling majority, demanding the government's shift for the alleged betrayal of national interest, violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, abandoning the fight for the preservation of KIM within a comprehensive Serbia. Simply put, because of the acceptance of Eulex, which means reconfiguring international presence at KIM and at the UN Security Council. I'm going to give you a few interesting facts about what's going on in our southern province, from both the recent past and the present, the reminders that work. First, just nine years ago, part of the opposition that is seeking the government's shift today was also against an agreement between Milosevic and Chernomirdin, which was the basis for the UN Security Council Resolution 1244. He criticised Milosevic for almost the same things that are today being attacked by the government, and in today's case, Resolution 1244 is being held as the only guarantee of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia over KIM. Secondly, part of those political representatives of Kosovo Serbs who participated in the petitioning of EULEX was once against the UN at KIM, i.e. against Unmik. Today the Unmika mission is supposed to be the only legitimate and, as such, only acceptable to a part of us. Have we forgotten that the mission, after the March pogrom in 2004, was sharply attacked and charged with failure, failure and failed to fulfil its mandate, entrusted by the UN Security Council. Is it important what the international mission at KIM will be called if its mandate is based on Resolution 1244 and if, after Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence by the provisional institutions of self-government, it is statusally neutral? What difference does it make between Unmik or any other mission, regardless of her name, including Eulex, when the UN Security Council decides on them, i.e. if these are under the mandate of the UN? I'll look back on the present. Currently, the fiercest opponents of the reconfiguration of the international presence at KIM in the UN are Albanian politicians from Pristina, both from both authorities and the opposition, all from Sejdiu and Thaci, representatives of the current government, to Haradinaj, Ceku, the leader of the opposition. Isn't that a little weird? I wonder what that brings to a similar wavelength of separatists and secessionists, who are trying to tear off part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and part of our opposition? Obviously, the agreement that has been reached is unsatisfactory for all those who correspond to the chaotic situation of KIM and who have used it well in the past years to make their patriotism a good charge for money, smuggling, donations, a set-up tender. They're not fit by any system or rule of law. So far, all the Albanian initiatives have been supported, and Belgrade's voice has barely been heard. So it was during the negotiation process, so it was after the March pogrom in 2004, and so it was up to the adoption of our resolution at the UN General Assembly, which is, in the opinion of the majority, the brilliant success of our diplomacy. Also, a significant diplomatic success is the UN Secretary-General's plan, which is the result of six-point negotiations between the government of Serbia and the UN, concerning police, customs, judiciary, traffic, borders, Serbian cultural heritage. So, six counts of importance for the survival of Serbs at KIM and for the return of the exiles. Right now, when we take the initiative and Pristina is the one that is not constructive, if I am not wrong for the first time, we are in our assembly discussing the government's impeachment, which is responsible for diplomatic victory and for taking the initiative that puts Kosovo's most powerful supporters in a stalemate position. There has been no more important issue in Serbia than Kosovo and Metohija for a long time. Politics and our relationship with Kosovo and Metohija should be the point of gathering that we agree on, not about which we conflict and waste energy. We are aware that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is one of the oldest and most difficult state issues. If Kosovo and Metohija are truly at our heart, let us not allow it to be, as was unfortunately the previous years, the means of political bickering, marketing and campaigning. Speaking of past government work on Kosovo and Metohija, it can be noted that the government of the Republic of Serbia is holding the issue at the top of its priorities. The government is not like the previous one, defined as having only people from its party for its co-workers and its constituencies in Kosovo and Metohija. So, starting with the results of the local elections, both the Serbian government and the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija are working well with the presidents of municipalities that are from the DSS and the SRS and other parties. The government of the Republic of Serbia, starting with these assumptions, supported the creation of a network of Serbian local structures, the Assembly of the Kosovo and Metohija municipalities. Gentlemen of the opposition parties, you should also be pleased with the fact that even after a few months of the formation of this government, almost none of your staff has been changed in Kosovo and Metohija. We hear more reasons for dissatisfaction than members of the ruling coalition's party. Our approaches are clearly different. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija are seeking a measured and constructive approach to finding sustainable solutions, respecting their interests and European standards. This issue is not just a matter of one party or a coalition, not just one ministry, not just one government, the difference between the authorities and the opposition on this issue should be reduced to the least possible. Our fellow citizens pay attention to the messages sent to them from the congregation. So I ask you to be constructive and not to abuse, for who knows which way, the suffering of people living in Kosovo and Metohija, but to unite in one tolerated atmosphere, with differences in our attitudes. Finally, I use this place and this moment not only to express my support to the government, but to send clear support to my people in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as those who are forced out of their homes, that this ruling majority is not only doing everything to preserve Serbia's integrity and sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija, but is trying to do much to facilitate their daily lives and enable the return of the displaced. Of course they will never do anything that would endanger their lives, security, existence, as well as express will and desire to live within the frameworks of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10824	I thank my young colleague, especially for the call for dialogue. The MP, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10825	Dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, present ministers, I must first of all note that this debate on confidence in the government does not bear the necessary amount of tension or fear that would imply the danger of this government being replaced. There are at least two reasons for that. The first is that the debate on the government's trust means that there is a possibility that the government will change its composition or change its goals. Since none of us, left or right, are convinced that the government is ready to change its goals, the personal composition absolutely means nothing in this respect and in that sense the expectation that the government is changing is truly unrealistic. What concerns me as a member of the opposition, as a member of the SNS, is that this debate here does not have enough new elements of criticism and there is no sharpness, because if the government's moves were only talked about at this point in the agenda, when there was no daily opportunity in uncontrollable discussions on any legislative proposal, then this debate would make sense. But since, on a daily basis, independent of what the subject is on the agenda, using the Rules of Procedure in a democracy that is indisputable and which costs, these rights are sometimes used, and most often and misused, I estimate that there is not enough energy here today because arguments against the government's move are almost chaoticly being brought up daily. In principle -- when you talk a lot, nobody hears you, in principle -- when some talk the same thing every day, they just say they don't differ from the government that puts the media in politics instead of the government itself. This kind of abuse of media on one side gives birth to contempt for the profession of MPs, which I protest as someone with experience in parliamentary life. Not wanting to contribute in any way to the debate on government's trust, I am now talking about laws or vice versa, in the shortest possible way, I am going to ask the citizens and my colleagues on the basis of which we are assessing the results of this government. We have an exposé of July 7th, an existing memorandum of economic policy, one revised for 2008 and the latest economic policy memorandum for 2009. These are all lists of intentions, one very significant effort has been made to show us great data, numerous, expensive, about everything and everything, but these are just plans and programs. Can we evaluate someone based on intent and what they want to do? We can't. Can we assess this government by the laws she's been proposing here? Here, let me just take the Anti-Corruption Agency Act as very indicative, because this is a goal that has been one of the priorities for years back. The way it was proposed, the argument given in it, the period of validity, the delayed application, the solutions in the law, say that even when it comes to legal projects, they remain in fact intent on what the government is going to do. So even laws aren't enough arguments to judge this government. There's one law that we've adopted or talked about last week, the one about the state of banks that we haven't owned yet, where the system of court puts its paws on another part of the property. Maybe it's talking about this government's intention that has nothing left to privatise and sell so it can exercise power. It's only here that we come to the essence of what allows us to judge the government. In addition to an assessment that I will only explain with a few questions that we have been asking for years ago, which the government is not responding to, I will base my complaint on the Government that it is unable to lead a comprehensive economic policy. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Cvetkovic, your intentions to care for the employment of people and the standard of residents are honorable and respectful. These are the main objectives of the memorandum, but why not lead a comprehensive policy of measures to result in a better life for citizens? Why does the National Bank of Serbia feel that it should also be independent of the interests of citizens, when it puts clips in the wheels of what you want, even if declared, to do so? If you are not the one who can unite the government's policy with the memorandum objectives, I ask the citizens of Serbia and those above you -- is there something that is not the goal of living better and if it is not the professionality and conscience of the governors, and who can also draw that link in the interest of Serbian citizens? I'm not talking because I'm interested in who personally does the job, I'm talking about it because the exchange rate is the basic price of which citizens' loans, their salaries, the job of exporters, importers, the work of our factories, state enterprises, the import of tractors, the import of equipment, that's the basic price that depends on the life of all of us. Therefore, foreign exchange rate policy and credit price cannot be any imaginary category, but must function as objectives called employment and better life. The main criticism of the SNS as an opposition is that we cannot only hear in election campaigns in discussions between the governor and now Vice President Djelic about where the money from privatisation was spent. I ask you, where are the foreign reserves and the privatisation foreign funds measured at seven billion euros in just two and a half years? According to Mr Dinkic's confession, $17 billion has entered this country in the last eight years. Who put in such a record of these funds that you don't know more about them than I do as an MP, and the citizens don't know anything about them? Who makes money on those assets, and where does he invest them? Which agency are they going through? Who gets paid the fees? I'd end it with a question -- why is there no final account since 2001, that's the last one that was? For 2006 and 2007, it was delivered to the Assembly, but it was never discussed. About the largest state resources that mean the permanent spending of the future, we get information that pensions, salaries and debts have been paid out of them. When you tell us how much the debts we inherited cost, which we will repay as a serious and responsible authority, but when you write down what credit risk is for each of the loans, where it is invested, what this country and these citizens have received from these loans, and what has returned to those who gave them to us, you will have the credibility to sit so peacefully and listen to the debate about the government. What is the problem, which is in too many words, in the tabloidity of the press and reports on the government's work, only the governor has provided himself with support, so even when he says he will prevent the export of capital abroad, no newspaper will record it or comment on it, but that is why every MP's speech, every political representative, and even you, is exposed to the public as you are not in a position to control it. I hope that we will lead the real debate on the budget, that you will focus your forces on achieving goals called employment and citizens' standards, and that you will be able to provide 126 votes here for your defence, not that those who are prevented by political points, but the lives of citizens here present accusations that have faded in daily repetition. The Serbian Progressive Party will appreciate your effects, not your intentions. You will prove yourself to the citizens and these MPs here. I think it will depend on the deadline for the election, and your survival and your place in the history of this country. Thank you. (During this speech, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10826	Thank you. The word has Bajram Omeragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10827	As an MP for the Bosniak list, I would like to stress that the Bosniak list will support this government, not only because we participate in the work of this government, because we believe that the government that has been working for six months has not had time to show everything it can and now prevent the government from continuing its work, in our opinion, we believe that this would be extremely unserious of this Parliament. What's the consequence of a no-confidence vote? So, new elections in 2009, when the whole world shakes up the crisis that everyone announces. Serbian citizens did not deserve to see this year not as a year of development, not as a year of investment, not as a year of European integration, but as a year of waste of time in the elections, which we only had a few months ago, and in these elections nothing would change. The Sandzak citizens feel the very big problem that exists in this Parliament that months we cannot declare the laws needed to come to the White Schengen list, to speed up the process of European integration and the citizens of Sandzak expect this Parliament to start working effectively, to speed up our European integration, because this is the only way to improve every citizen in this country. I say what would be an alternative to the European path? We've heard a lot of stories here today about how ideally in the European Union. It's not ideal. Not some countries voted for the Lisbon Agreement, it's a fact, but tell me an example of a country entering the European Union, so it came out of the European Union. Why doesn't anyone leave the European Union if it's bad? Therefore, the Sandzak citizens expect the process of European integration to be accelerated in the coming year, that the investment process in our most underdeveloped region is strengthened. I wouldn't use this opportunity today, since we have a budget debate. Here we will express our view on the budget, given that the items in that budget that are intended for underdeveloped areas are very small, and of course regarding our position in this coalition will call on our coalition partners to pay attention that those funds provided for by the Office for underdeveloped areas, that this figure is increasing and that some of the problems that have been encountered in our ruling coalition these days are overcome. As coalition partners, we want to continue working with our coalition partners in such a way as to exchange more information, to consult on many decisions that are important for the work of our majority in this Parliament and in the government. I want to say once again on behalf of the Sandzak citizens that today I do not want to take up time because simply the Sandzak citizens want the year 2009 to be the year of investment, European integration, and in four years we go to elections and then measure the effect of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10828	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10829	Ladies and gentlemen, since this government has 27 members, tonight I'm going to present 27 reasons why she needs to be voted out. So far, life costs in Serbia have been high, but have now become unbearable, even for better-standing citizens of Serbia. The promised inflation to, quote, no more than 8% has already reached 10%. The number of people's kitchen users increased by 3,600, the gas was raised by 60%, phone services increased on average by more than 100%. Pensions are promised to be 70% of the average salary in Serbia. That's not gonna happen. True, pensions have increased by 10%, however, their real value is lower than it was before this government was formed. Boris Tadic and his coalition partners have pledged to create new 200,000 jobs, out of which 10,000 are on the construction of a highway network. The highway network left only one failed contract on the construction of the Požega-Horgoš highway, and as far as employment is concerned, instead of mass employment, we have mass layoffs. Within a week of October, over five thousand workers were expelled from their jobs on the street. The 2009 draft budget does not provide for further employment. By the end of this year, over the next 12 days, 280 companies will be liquidated, 45,000 workers working in them will be expelled into the street. The Vojvodina Assembly, in which DS and its coalition partners have 3/4 MPs, adopted a Separatist Statute that opens the door to the Kosovoization of our northern province. In order to satisfy the unsatisfactory appetites of coalition partners, the number of ministries, the number of ministers and civil servants has increased, causing further increases in public spending and an increased budget deficit. The Hague tribunal was also arrested by the founder and first president of Republika Srpska, Dr Radovan Karadzic. At peaceful demonstrations in downtown Belgrade, police, for no reason, killed Protestant Rank Panic and brutally beat up several MPs. In the Serbian Parliament, the country's highest legislative body, a symbol of statehood, constitutionality and democracy, the electoral will of citizens has been affected. The strongest opposition party, the SRS, has 22 parliamentary mandates. We now have a situation here in the Serbian Parliament that we have representatives of the party who not only did not participate in the elections, but did not exist at the time when they were held. It has been promised that all full-time citizens of Serbia, by the end of 2009, will receive shares worth at least 1,000 euros from the sale of the largest economic systems. That's not gonna happen. Agricultural producers were promised at the time of the election campaign that each hectare of land would receive a premium of 10,000 dinars. Those premiums haven't been paid completely yet. In this room there are people who have registered their households, and not all their premiums have been paid to the end. It is part of it, but part of it isn't. It has been promised that Fijat will invest 700m euros in the Zastava factory in Kragujevac and create several thousand jobs. We first learned that out of these 700m euros, the state of Serbia and the town of Kragujevac will invest 350m, and according to what has been happening in the last few days, the investment will be nothing, it will be another pre-election colour lie directed by DS and G17. You made a gas deal with Russia a mixture of Spanish series and a Serbian thriller. It has been promised that Serbia will be on the white Schengen list by the end of this year, that Serbian citizens will travel without a visa to EU member states as of January 1st. That's not gonna happen. Serbia's investment rating was never lower than it was these days, because foreign investors do not trust the government's stability and credibility. Ratification and implementation of the SAA with the EU have been promised. We ratified the agreement in this assembly, however, the EU countries refused to do so. Indexes on the Belgrade Stock Exchange have been promised to grow, however, they are in the last month the lowest since the founding of the stock market. According to the latest surveys by the international organisation Transparency International, the corruption index in Serbia is constantly growing. Hostage management of state and public enterprises has been promised. We have been listening and reading for a month about how the directors and members of the boards of directors of public enterprises receive rudely high salaries, which in certain cases move up to 12,000 euros per month. The stability of the dinars has been promised. In addition to investing over 500m euros in the defence of the dinar course, the real value of the course compared to the time this government was formed is now less than 10%. An increase in economic growth has been promised, and it fell from 6.5% to 3%. According to neighbouring countries, one sly policy continues to be conducted. We have the following result - Montenegro and Macedonia have recognised the independence of KIM, and before the International Court of Justice in The Hague, there is a trial against Serbia on Croatia's charges of genocide and aggression, which is twilight and international law, and a bit of Serbia's diplomacy. Finally, the 27th reason, the Serbian government has made a crucial contribution to the installation of KIM mission Eulex, whose full legalisation will almost until the end come up with Resolution 1244 of the UN, which is the final legal obstacle to full independence of KIM. If that were the case, it can be seen from the statements of the highest officials of individual EU countries. I'll quote a few of those statements. French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner says the following -- as more than 50 countries have recognised Kosovo as an independent state so far, the Eulex mission will certainly apply Kosovo's laws. The message is clear, the UN mission in the southern Serbian province will apply the laws of the Cypriot state, with the government's consent in Belgrade. A little later, 12.12, Germany's top defence ministry official, Christian Schmidt, announced the following -- the establishment of the Eulex begins to implement Marty Ahtisaari's plan. What's this about? It is obvious that the government in Serbia has agreed to implement the Martti Ahtisaari plan on KIM, but has insisted that the plan be caught in another less recognizable uniform, so that Serbian citizens do not recognise what it is. The third statement I will quote, UK Foreign Minister David Miliband's statement, issued on December 11th -- the deployment of Eulex allows Kosovo to move forward on its path to UN membership. As you know, the right to membership in the UN has only independent states, internationally recognised states, UN member states. I believe that Serbia's accession to the Eulex mission, on the Ahtisaari plan, not only legalises the occupation and gradual independence of KIM, but in a special way is done to amnesty all the crimes that, in order to declare that independence, have been committed against Serbia and the Serb people in KIM. The remaining few minutes, for the sake of respect for these victims, will remind me of them. More than three thousand Serbs were killed. Three thousand of them are still unknown to the fate of 560. More than 250,000 members of the Serb people with KIM were expelled. More than 150 churches and monasteries have been torn down. 650 Orthodox cemeteries were destroyed and defiled. It was robbed and destroyed, burned down more than 40,000 Serbian houses and other buildings. The Serbs were kidnapped private assets estimated at least at 15 billion euros. The crimes committed against the Serb people and Serbia by the NATO pact member states, headed by the United States, are also being amnested. NATO and the United States have, by aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, turned out by what we hear today, committed an unpunished crime against peace. It's the most serious crime under international law, it's even more serious than genocide. More than a thousand Serb soldiers and police officers were killed. The destruction of Serbian towns and villages has caused material damage estimated at least 30 billion euros. More than two thousand were killed and more than 10,000 Serb civilians injured in the senseless bombing of Serbian peoples. The message of all these facts is more than clear to me. This government has not passed the exam, and this is why it is due today to vote in favour of its resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10830	Thank you. Mrs. Vesna Pesic, LDP.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10831	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, President of the Assembly, here at first sight we feel like it's some kind of serious debate, some serious people who need to vote for mistrust and others who need to defend government policy. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to hear any relevant debate, not really a serious argument for either one, not for the other, so my impression is that this whole debate has gone to waste in one mess, so we don't see what's one side and what's the other side. I'd like to say that this is coming from here, which is where both sides don't try to understand each other, or to establish any criteria that we're talking about here today. The reason the LDP did not accept that the government's mistrust was an argument for this mistrust. We believe that this argument is not based on a true assumption. Our party was saying at first that there was no normal man, not to tell members of any state who wanted to take a plate and give some of their territory, and of course there was such a debate here, that it was bribed by certain people that they wanted to give some territory to someone, that's how it came out of some obscenity or what was said, some pure betrayal, which was most popular here. Gentlemen, what is trying to resent here is that this government allegedly betrayed Kosovo and that on the tray, as it is said here, independence was delivered, that it was indirectly accepted, through the arrival of EULEX in Kosovo. I think the problem at first was that we didn't have sovereignty in Kosovo, and when Minister Jeremic, I must say, is acting here all the time, this story that needs to be told and making it one of the most ordinary budding, is because he won't admit that Serbia since 1999, by entering foreign troops, and so as I know, losing sovereignty in Kosovo has no sovereignty. He keeps talking about defending sovereignty, and from us all 250 and from this people, if anyone listens to us at all, it will not be accepted by the elemental fact that we do not have sovereignty in Kosovo. There is no government of this state of Serbia at KIM. Serious people would go, both sides, from that fact, to see what, when those facts are gone, can be done for Kosovo and Metohija? What can be done for the citizens of both Serbs and Albanians, and how can we live with this fact further and what can we do with it seriously? This is what the government of Vojislav Kostunica did, that we have sovereignty in Kosovo and that it's written in the Constitution, that's the lie we're arguing about today. There is no sovereignty in Kosovo. He's lost. The wolf Jeremic had just boasted, as the decision was made, how we will act on diplomatic means, allegedly we will not use force. Please, gentlemen, we have made no decision not to use force, but we will use diplomatic means and foreign policy to restore sovereignty, which no one alive has ever succeeded. This is not a foreign policy issue, but rather an internal issue, because the issue of sovereignty is an internal issue, not an external issue, because it refers to whether these citizens are citizens of this country or not. We can't even want to apply force, because it hides that there's one force down there. If there's a force down there, if there's KFOR down there, if there's a NATO army down there, it means that this country has no sovereignty over that territory and that's why this comedy makes this discussion completely pointless. On the other hand, I think that if we can't take this fact together and stop lying to these citizens that Serbia as a state has sovereignty in Kosovo, that at least so much that some argument that was here could be respected, that a pro-European government would admit something and the criticism that was given here. That is true, that a pro-European government has accepted the arrival of EULEX in KIM, but that does not mean anything else because it has been said publicly everywhere, that this Eulex needs and will indeed implement the rejected Ahtisaari plan. It is true that it will build the institutions of an independent Kosovo, or controlled independence, supervised independence of Kosovo. Yes, that's why EULEX is in Kosovo. So we can get away from that fact, that Eulex means it, but I don't see why a pro-European government takes so long to defend itself from it and say, yes, it is. We need each other to admit that the initial assumption is wrong, which is that we have some sovereignty there. If we are not this time, not for the sixth time, and so many times we have had the opportunity to better agree on this subject when it comes to Kosovo and maybe do more for the citizens who live there, and somehow better secure our international reputation, if we could not figure out which way, I think today's debate, when it comes to Kosovo, has failed. The current government should not have insisted on leading a policy of continuity with the government of Vojislav Kostunica when it comes to Kosovo. He was supposed to go out on purpose and knowingly with his policy on the subject, he had a majority in the Assembly, and he was supposed to change that policy, as she practically did. He's got most of it, so when he's got most of it, he can run his own politics. It's just that there's some kind of my biggest grudge to the current government, regardless of what I said, that both sides are trying to cover up the truth and keep lying and fooling the citizens. This most people don't do their job. When someone gets most, then they need its policy, its objectives, its values, its regulatory system, legislation, to make it clear and to see what the identity of this government is. I have the impression that this is a weak government, that Mr. Cvetkovic, whom I respect as an expert and as an economist, I end up saying it as a relatively likable man, but I have the impression that someone is ruling from the shadows. Boris Tadic says very unpleasantly the other day - listen carefully to what the goals are. No one like the party's president can hold the bank and not know who the president is, in what way and what his powers are. We're watching how funny it looks on TV, when he says no, he's going to control the ministers, and under the Constitution, he has no right to control the ministers. It's a rule from the extremity. Is that power some kind of psychological need? We in sociology take power as something positive. The government needs to solve problems. This majority does not deepen into problems, it does not solve them and pays by being extremely inefficient. When I read in the paper that Montenegro was only two years ago, I don't know if it's two years old, I guess it is, it has its independence, it has already passed 240 European laws, and Serbia barely 15. So it's a government that doesn't have an identity, from which it's ruled out from somewhere, from some shadow, where you don't know who's doing what, and even when it comes out in public. Let's say what is done in public enterprises, then it doesn't seem like it came to the agenda to sort something out, to say that these public enterprises should start working towards some economic principles, to introduce some order, but it seems to be kicking it under the table, to let it know, I don't know, Dinkic, that it's not doing this or that or to discipline some kind of partner. If such data have been provided, I guess it was a good opportunity to control both short and long-term something called party prey and thus strike down what is worst in Serbia, which is a naked, disillusioned interest called the party state. When it comes to the party state, I'll say one more term, that means lawlessness. Believe me, in this crisis that's being prepared and the recession that's coming, and where it's hard to live, and where it looks like it's going to be even harder, if there's a rule of law, if that law really applies to everything, then people can also attract and suffer, but if they see this interesting disenfranchisement, that there are some privileges and there's really a law that should only apply to someone out there, and the other one that doesn't apply, then it really feels like the government isn't establishing that fundamental sense of justice in one society. So, the disillusionment of the party state, the lack of any control mechanisms, any government control mechanism that we have tried to establish in this parliament has failed, from the audit state institution we have chosen here to the Constitutional Court. He is returning to us today the question we have asked about the gas agreement, returning to the Assembly committee to decide whether it is an important international agreement at all, so it is absurd. For we have chosen this Constitutional Court to transfer it to the Assembly Committee, and we know very well what this congregation board can do. So no institution has begun to work, and the laws of those which we have passed, they are not applied, and the judgments that make judgments are not carried out. What would concern me is that chaos is growing in our society, and when chaos grows, you are less prepared to fight the environment, recession and economic accidents that are being prepared. Only a high order, a high concentration, only to carry out our duties, only a quick, efficient and responsible government can now help Serbia in this difficult crisis and try to get away with as little cost as possible. Unfortunately, that's not the case. Serbia continues to melt, as someone said the other day in the paper, our salvation is gone, I hope we won't fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10832	The word is Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10833	National MP Vesna Pesic presented a real-political idea of sovereignty here. We can approach this problem on that side, I don't have any fence. In fact, what guarantees Resolution 1244, which is nevertheless a UN act, is a guarantee of sovereignty in some formal international legal sense. We can say-it's nothing, it's just one formal guarantee of sovereignty and say what counterpart Vesna Pesic said - sovereignty in Kosovo has one who holds the effective power. Let's look at the problem on that side, Kim. Serbia is holding part of the active government in KIM, or rather, until a few months ago, it still held part of the practical government. I will remind you, since 1999, and especially since 2000, since 2001, there has been no child of the KiM of Serbian origin who has not attended Serbian school, so school in the education system of the Republic of Serbia. There were no people who had not been treated in health institutions belonging to the health care system of the Republic of Serbia. Social policy was in Serbia's hands. So, when it comes to people who recognize Serbia as their own country. There have been municipalities, practically since 2002, since the first KIM elections for municipal local authorities, municipalities that have been under, so to speak, effective control of the Republic of Serbia, which co-operated only with Serbia. This year, on 11 May, Serbs went to the elections called by the Republic of Serbia, i.e. The Republic Election Commission that controlled those elections. They chose their authorities, local authorities, 54% of the Serb and non-Albanian voters went to the polls. Serbia has invested in KIM for as long as possible, as-so, but we are talking in the relations set by counterpart Vesna Pesic, the practical authorities. So, Serbia had one part of the active government in Kosovo, the other part held temporary institutions, the third part of Unmik. From February 17th, there was a certain disturbance. It is not a problem that Albanians have declared independence with regard to holding an active government, they have continued to hold power where they held it, not in all of Kosovo. The problem was that Unmik began to retreat unilaterally, based on the Martti Ahtisaari plan. So there's a problem. Nothing prevented Serbia from retaining its power at KIM, to retain, in the terminology of Vesna Pesic, part of sovereignty. I once made a statement, while I was a minister, that we are in favour of legalising this one state, that I am in favour of a certain functional division of government in KIM, where we will not, in fact, be able to solve this problem with weapons and force, but as the practical situation requires, how the division of government on the ground itself imposes it. I think it was a good program, that it wasn't utopian, because Serbia had already held power over KIM in the areas I mentioned to you. Freely elected representatives of local authorities have educated their assembly on the delegate principle, as delegates of these municipalities who participated in the elections and became councils of these Serbians, so to speak, the municipality. It was also participated by residents of Gora, hence the Gorans, who joined their municipality in such a single process and such an organisation of Serbia's authorities in KIM. What is our problem with the government, and now I'm moving on to this main issue of distrust, so I'm tying it to it, is why it's so simple to let it go. Why wasn't this practical state maintained in every way? I can tell you that Unmik didn't resist much of us holding the KIM election on May 11th. There were those verbal threats to Joachim Riker, so the special representative of the secretary general. He threatened and talked, but we knew it could still be maintained. The Albanians did not object at all, did not cause any interference, did not threaten, did not even commit any acts of violence against the elections. Isn't this an effective situation that could have led to Serbia's defence of KIM interests? These final questions, if you will, these metaphysical issues of sovereignty, not counting on a clear international legal criterion, sovereignty belongs to Serbia, it says in UN acts, but, in fact, those issues that have the ultimate power over KIM, who has absolute and complete power over KIM, we could have left them for another time, in 10, 15, 20 years, to solve them in another atmosphere. So the government had one maneuvering space that was secured by the former government. We finally had a consensus, as a joint government, to do so. That thing's loose. If you look at the six-point program, it's actually raising hands from what Serbia has in its power at KIM. The six-point programme is actually a Serb protection programme as a minority, if Pristina agrees. Therefore, there will be major problems, Serbs will not agree. They have the right to, it's their human rights, to choose the state they're going to live in, because no one can move them from one country to another, except, of course, by violence. They manifested it with their signatures, 70 and a few thousand signatures were given against EULEX in Kosovo, because Serbs in Kosovo knew and knew very well what EULEX means in Kosovo. It does not mean defending their interests as citizens of Serbia but, at best, means defending their minority interests in Kosovo and Metohija. They didn't agree to that, and they have a right to that. We can't get our eyes off such a real situation. However we turn around, the thing with Kosovo and Metohija is not over, unless we raise our hands and say that sovereignty belongs to someone else, and in fact it doesn't belong to someone else, at least one part in this naked sense of active power belonged to Serbia, and it still belongs to Serbia and still has a chance to keep it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10834	Thank you. Mr Goran Bogdanovic, Minister for Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10835	Dear Madam President, honourable MPs, listening to Professor Samardzic, the impression is that the government of the Republic of Serbia has raised its hands from Kosovo and Metohija, which is absolutely not true. Maybe two or three hours ago, I repeated the same thing. Nothing has changed, Professor Samardzic, from your ministry to my ministry. So there are still local self-governments down there, there is still a Community of municipalities, and Serbia is still investing in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. There's no change in that. I think it is wrong to send messages and disabling Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, that Serbia has raised its hands from Kosovo, that Serbia will not invest in Kosovo and Metohija, that Serbia will not finance local self-government in Kosovo and Metohija. We are making huge efforts, the Serbs in Kosovo know it well, recognise our policy, regardless of what is currently being held in Kosovo and Metohija by local self-government parties that are not in the government. We have excellent co-operation, we do everything we can to strengthen these local self-governments, do everything we can to continue and improve the process of infrastructure, do everything we can to restore schools, do everything we can to continue those programmes that have started since 2006, 2007 and 2008. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia will do nothing and no move against Kosovo Serbs and other non-Albanians, be sure. This is what I want to send a very clear message to Serbs in the area of Kosovo and Metohija that this government will not give up on Kosovo and Metohija. These six points you were talking about, they absolutely correspond to Serbs in Kosovo. You know, we worked together on these six points both in the negotiation process and before, in 2001 and 2002, while there was a former Coordination Centre. Unfortunately, there was no understanding at the time by Unmik, but now we have managed to negotiate with the UN. For the first time, Serbia is wondering which judges will work in international courts, which police officers will work with international police officers, for the first time Serbs will be able to collect income at border crossings 1 and 31. So, I want to tell you something, I'm not saying this as a minister, I'm saying, first of all, as a man living in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. We'd all be happy to have our army down there, our police, our judiciary, but we need to look the facts in the eye, we need to see that there's something completely different down there. Obviously, we were struck by an accident. Let's see how all of us together from that accident benefit for that people who stayed down and what message we should send him, what the state of Serbia, what this government should do to improve, first of all, the life of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Otherwise, by demagogue, by pulsism, by picking up some cheap political points, we're not going anywhere. Believe me, Serbs will have no use for anything to say to any of us. Serbs want concrete things to be seen down there, that every Serb feels that the state of Serbia is taking care of it. We're going that way, and this government is doing it, it's making a huge effort, and we're going to go into it, so be safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10836	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Samardzic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10837	Thank you, but we still need to clarify what Minister Bogdanovic said. In fact, there is a great danger, and we draw attention to this to the government that runs the business, that what is the Serbian government and that the Serbian state authorities have had their direct action, their institutional link, their decision-making system in Kosovo, that it can all be lost over these six points that are contained in the Secretary-General's report. I'm warning you again that the Secretary General's report is not binding on anyone. It's just a report and it's the only six-point document. These six areas have been deployed to about 15 points. They are not important points, but where those six areas are mentioned where something will help Serbs, it is found in a non-binding document. It's a report. Secondly, the content of this document or part clearly speaks of the following: it is, in the area of police, customs and justice, international participants will be the cap of these processes, so KPS, where Serbs will participate, will be Serbian customs officers under international control and justice, where there will be Serbian judges in a Mitrovica court. It's okay, but you don't have any guarantee it'll stay that way. I mentioned that the customs regime would last 60 days. I'm sorry, that's where I was wrong, I looked at the document again, that applies to the judiciary. So, you know that about two or three weeks ago, several international judges and several prosecutors came to the court in Mitrovica and their mandate to be international representatives for 60 days, according to an explicit text of six points or six areas. Same goes for the police, same goes for customs. So what we're facing and what we're drawing attention to the government, first of all, is that they're no guarantees, that it's going to go like last year's snow in a few months. Otherwise, all these things take place under the legal hat of an independent Kosovo. The police will apply Kosovo laws. Of course, when international police leave, and we don't know how long they'll stay, there is a problem with these guarantees, there will be a chain of command, as it says here, an existing one, which means that Albanians will command the police. Of course, Serbs will oppose it, because they think there are guarantees, at least some Serbs. But believe me, 70,000 of those who signed this petition against Eulex, who came to both the Assembly and the President of the Republic, etc., they don't believe it, otherwise they wouldn't have signed it. I think we can be a well-intentioned bar according to these signatures, say that people have a real fear of what happens in a few months, so they signed a petition against the arrival of Eulex to Kosovo. So there's the problem. We use this pay phone to at least warn the government, if we can't influence it, if it stays after this vote, it might stay, it'll take care of what it does, that what it has in its hands, and that's the fact that it's the situation I've been talking about, that it's going to have to give it up just because it's accepted the six-point program, and there's no guarantee that it's going to last. It is simply a transitional period towards establishing and stabilising the institutions of an independent Kosovo, where EULEX, the thousand to nine hundred employees, will remain indefinitely for a long time. Their goal is to oversee the work of institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. They don't have the jurisdiction that Unmik had under Resolution 1244. There are no reserved powers for them, there are no powers of final decision. It is all in the institutions of Kosovo, according to Kosovo's constitution. I think the government knows that, as I know it, and I don't think we can gamble with these things, because it's still 120 or 130,000 people who don't recognise an independent state of Kosovo. So it's a huge cultural heritage that's threatened in one way or another, it's property, to talk about extremely real, practical, pragmatic relations. On the side of Serbia's sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. It is about these real things, which will fall very quickly under the control of the state of Serbia, as it has, practically, since 2000 or 2001, when there was the first consolidation of politics towards Kosovo and Metohija, through the Coordination Centre, and later through the Ministry, one, another, etc. So, the intention is not to empty the story, but to warn from this place of great danger that has prevailed over the population of Kosovo and Metohija, the citizens of Serbia, who only recognise Serbia as their national state.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10838	Thank you. The word has the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Science and Technological Development Mr Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10839	Dear Madam President, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, during today's debate today, European integration, deadlines, our country's perspective are mentioned on several occasions. The question is, is this European policy towards our country fair, is our country doing everything in its power to make rapid progress on this path and, of course, some issues concerning effective work and our institutions of government, the Assembly and other parts of our state administration? Let me remind you in a few words about these few key points. Progress, which has been made in the last few months, of course we were all disappointed when the Netherlands was left alone, and yet blocked, because these decisions are made by consensus, in early September, the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, or technically speaking -- the application of the country's Transition Trade Agreement. On that day, for the first time, we saw our country enjoying the support of all 26 EU members, who were universally supporting Serbia that day, and the same thing that was not always the case in the past, the entire European Commission and all its parts. Our country has decided to apply the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the first thing I want to say is that it is not a unilateral application, because in that most important part of customs, the EU has been applying the Stabilisation Agreement since December 2000. That's what they're called. The autonomous trade privileges it has given our country and in the past eight years, as is the case today and tomorrow, our businessmen can export to the EU market without customs duties. Of course, the Stabilisation Agreement is better because it turns these unilateral benefits into a contractual relationship. That's why it's better to have a Stabilisation Agreement. But it should always be recalled that the EU has been applying, in the most important part, that customs, their share of the contract for eight years. Another thing we want to say is that, as we started, we will prepare all institutional assumptions that the application of the Stabilisation Agreement will be such that, when it comes to that time, everything we do in 2009 is considered as applying the Stabilisation Agreement, because that is what counts in the assessment of the capacity of a particular country to obtain candidate status. I want to tell you tonight that our country will apply for EU candidate status next year. We will set that date with our European partners. Of course, in order to ultimately get that positive outcome and formal candidate status, we will have to come to a positive outcome of the Stabilisation Agreement before that. In a technical sense, our country can also demonstrate its high administrative capacity, which the European Commission once again presented in its report last year. I want to say a few words about deadlines. Of course, what happened during the summer, which is one unprecedented economic crisis, one blockade, that stemmed from an unexpected rejection by the Irish people of the Lisbon Agreement, and of course what happened in the Caucasus, these are things that occupied the much greater capacity of the French presidency than we expected. When I say that, it's no way to defend ourselves in a defensive manner against some of the deadlines we've set ourselves not being fulfilled. But I just want to remind you that the objective circumstances have changed in many ways. But that doesn't mean in any way that we and one single day gave up our strategic principles. All I want is the honourable MPs and our public to present the activities we've had over the past few months. As far as the Agreement itself is concerned, we are ready for its application. Which is very important, in that technical jargon of the European Commission, and she found a way to accept so-called. Euro-one certificates and that she, in a commercial sense, applies the Stabilisation Agreement with us de facto, if not de jure. On the other hand, in October, our country wrapped up a big deal for our administration by adopting the National Plan for EU Integration. It's a document that's not worth so much because of its 850 pages, but because our administration has very clearly identified what separates us from the total inclusion of so-called. Aki communitre or legal fluids of the EU in our legislative order. An operational programme has been developed to complete the big deal by the end of 2012. In other words, our country, in a techno-administrative sense, is ready to join the EU at the end of that year. It's not a guarantee that we'll go in then, but it's important that we do, and it's a big job that's ahead of us, on that road. As far as the legislative agenda is concerned, several MPs have reminded us, because we are working in full transparency with our Assembly, how much legislation has been passed here, how much has been adopted by the government and given to parliament for adoption, as long as it has arrived with others. I can say that more than two-thirds of these laws have either been passed, or is in the final stages of the completion of the work. In February, I hope this esteemed home will decide to hold an extraordinary session, where one number of these laws could be passed. At the same time, I'd like to say that it's one job that's just ahead of us. For the sake of comparison, this legislative agenda of ours, which was approximately 52 laws for this year, is what we ourselves have drawn out in our National Plan for EU Integration, representing some 156 laws. So there's an even bigger job ahead of us. We absolutely agree with those MPs who say that this great work cannot be done through any form of confrontation. The vast majority of these regulations have absolutely no political weight, but it is technically the introduction of certain standards into our country, and they are crucial to the development of our economy. Every time you, I, anyone, meet our businessmen, it is always a question of when this and that standard will be adopted, because without the adoption of that standard cannot be exported, not only to the EU, but to the markets in the environment. As for visas, in July of last year in the previous government, we formed an inter-resor group dealing with visa issues from relief to liberalisation. Negotiations on visa relief and readmission were concluded in September, and already in January of this year, which the EU signed with all Western Balkan countries, began to apply. Every month we have meetings with consular representations of EU member states, especially those that are part of the Schengen area and we find, although there are still some difficulties, visas are given faster, cheaper and longer. It's a statistic that encourages it. Of course, what was the subject of the great debate, when the agreement was ratified in this esteemed home in November of last year, was a matter of reading. Some have said that there will be a big wave, that tens of thousands of our citizens will return, that our country is not ready to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, in all this year, we're not going to cross the number again of some 2,000 people. There's no increase, there's no reported disaster in that area. On the contrary, this dialogue was developing. In January, Mr Frattini, as Vice-President of the Commission, came to open a dialogue on visa liberalisation. In May, his successor, Mr. Jacques Barrot, brought so-called a map of times to identify technical and, in no way political, conditions to achieve visa liberalisation. We delivered what was expected of Serbia, and this is the best, most reliable, most accurate report from all the Western Balkan countries and 28 November, the European Commission gave us their reaction to our reforms. We're the only country that's already gone with the answers to all the technical questions this week. About the passport, it's true that there was a problem in the launch. Believe me, July 7th, when we launched the release of a biometric passport, it wasn't an easy day. I've been with our citizens, and I'll always be with the citizens, especially when it's not easy for them in their relations with the administration. It's easy to criticize from the cabinet, it's easy to find a flaw. We know well that we cannot have one impeccable administration overnight and that capacity, but already now more than 170,000 biometric passports are divided. We started in early November and this big procedure for our diaspora in Paris, the country that holds the presidency of the EU, in Dusseldorf and Vienna. The foreign ministry has drawn up an operational plan for next year, so our citizens, too, have respected what was promised, and this is contrary to this old passport that cost 188 euros per person, a new cost of 36 euros, as in the country, and is added to that by a shipment of 15 euros. It is a measure of respect and equality between our citizens living in the diaspora and those living in the womb. As for the next steps, I would like to tell you that we will have a visit to experts in February and that the European Commission will most likely reach its first conclusions in May next year on the preparedness of various Western Balkan countries for visa liberalisation. It's not a guarantee that this job will be done next year. It is true that elections for the European Parliament in June and elections for the German parliament in September are moments that determine the EU's capacity to determine certain things, but our country is very committed to working on visa liberalisation and we will lift visas for our citizens. You'll see, it'll happen much faster than what different people expect in our country. I want to say that three days ago, when we talk about relations with the EU, that's just one example, we opened a facility worth 7.6m euros to prepare drinking water in India. There, the European Commission participated with 2.4m euros, and that is only one small part of the 190m-euro programme we implement annually. Of course, the billion euros we signed last November will not be a reality right away, but we started and finished programming for 2007. For 2008 things were technically completed and we work very hard on the IP for 2009. We can say that, of all Western Balkan countries, Serbia is the one that is currently showing the best absorption capacity of the European budget. Dear People's MPs, of course, that the European budget that is under great pressure in the years to come will not be easy to adopt for our country. But still, as the French Presidency announced, next year there will be a six-billion budget rebalance, a full rebalance of the European budget will take place at the end of next year and by a well-known rebalancing technique, in the middle of that six-year budget programming for those countries that are ready and we are preparing, new opportunities will be opened. For us, it is primarily an opportunity to come up with additional funds to build our infrastructure, rails. The Danube has been named a new regional priority for the EU and a new programme for 2010, so as far as we're concerned, we with these 200m euros a year won't be able to cross immediately...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10840	Please, I'll give you my warning. Let Mr. Vice President finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10841	We will not overnight transform the amount of the European budget for our country from the current 200m euros to a billion euros, but neighbouring Bulgaria, about the same gauge as our country, gets 1.8 billion euros annually, Slovakia with five million inhabitants has received 11 billion euros for this six-year budget plan for structural funds. For example, neighbouring Romania received 300m euros for science infrastructure only for the next three years. We can list for a long time the possibilities that are opening at this point. I want to conclude with a few perspectives on this European integration. No one in our country should be a Eurosceptic because they don't want to look at the facts. No one in our country should be a European romantic because they don't want to see the facts. We need to look at the facts, recognize that this process, a process that is not perfect, a process during which we will not agree to any blackmail about our territorial integrity. But at the same time, the process that has now been tested properly and this is after ten years after the introduction of the euro as a common currency, the first major scale crisis experienced by Europe, and we can see to what extent this large construction is giving effect to its countries. What are we saying? Some said a few months ago that this Europe would fall apart until Serbia reached it. It's the usual flossula. We find that some rich countries, such as Norway, Denmark, as confirmed by the prime minister of Denmark during a visit to Belgrade, including Sweden, and that they are considering entering the eurozone. The prime minister of Poland has urged that criteria for entry into the eurozone be loosened because a number of Eastern European countries want to enter the eurozone as soon as possible. Why? Because it's a single mechanism, a collective mechanism, that provides stability. At the same time, if nations like Iceland and some others want to join the EU, they recognize that at these difficult times being a member gives perspective and stability, which would also serve our country at this very moment. As far as we are concerned, the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants the dialogue with the Kingdom of the Netherlands and with all EU countries to continue on Sundays, that this hard position, which is very difficult to explain to our citizens, be changed, to apply the transitional trade agreement as soon as possible, that our country that has this capacity, applying next year and reminding what was first mentioned in the European Commission's report in November, which is that Serbia can get candidate status next year by meeting The Hague conditions. That's not what we say, but it says officially for the first time in the EU. It's no guarantee, but for the first time, it's one perspective that's opened up for us. As far as visas are concerned, our country is making good progress. There are no revolutions here overnight. We are expected to adopt finally one valid strategy to fight drugs, we are expected to better equip our border crossings, we are expected to continue to fight organised crime more strongly, we are expected to have additional resources that will be directed towards the integration of those citizens who are subject to readmission. And there is no surplus policy, we are expected to have normal reforms implemented by every normal European country. We just, I think that's what my fellow interior minister was talking about two days ago, and we're taking those steps that need to prepare the future and the possibility of our country being among the first to have the ability to receive a chip of digital footprints, a country that's not just preparing to lift visas, but, and that's a slightly longer perspective, for entering Schengen space itself. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no reason to idealise European integration, but there is no argument and there is no alternative thing that anyone has formulated from one perspective where 55% of our goods are already going today, where 88% of our country's investment comes from, which has since 2001 given 2.5 billion euros in grants to our country, whose financial institutions, the Investment Bank, have invested 1.4 billion euros for our clinical centres, for our local infrastructure. For the national infrastructure of 540m euros, for Corridor 10, next year 250m euros in support of the liquidity of our system, 1.2 billion for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We don't need to idealize Europe, but it is our destination and strategic definition of our country and our government. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10842	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The replicas first have Mr. Todorovic, so Mr. Aligrudic, Mr. Markicevic, on behalf of his parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you from the ruling coalition install some smaller batteries, this is an excessive charge, we can't take it. This is really amazing. (President: Mr Todorovic, you cannot make such a statement and it is not right for you to make these comments as vice president. But what's said really offends common sense. This man thought he'd never be allowed to appear in parliament, he's coming and he's telling us some stories again. Let's remind Mr. Duke of some promises he made us here. Do you remember - Let's go, Come to Europe, SSP. They came to Brussels, and they said, "Get out." It's not gonna happen. Do you remember, Mr. Djelic, when you promised us in April that by the end of the year we'd be on the white Schengen list in the election campaign? Do you remember, Mr. Djelic, accusing Governor Jelasic and the Director of the Coin of Money that it was those who were responsible because the passports didn't arrive in time? What did they say to you? That you're ordinary, I don't want to say that word, but a man who speaks the hardest possible untruth. Do you remember, Mr. Djelic, what you promised Serbian citizens during the unilateral application of the SAA? What did you promise when you were asked about the big economic crisis? Mr. Djelic, I'd just like to ask one question - do you remember saying that our country is going to make money from that big economic crisis? How dare you come now for this pay phone and talk? What are you going to say, since I don't have a lot of time, to people who took farm loans of 20.3 billion dinars? Already, by jumping the Swiss franc and jumping the euro, 20% have increased their obligation, and you want to apply the SAA unilaterally, which means free imports of agricultural products from the European Union. What are they going to do with the loans they took for the equipment, for the plantings and for everything they needed? How are they going to repay these loans because their loans are accounted for in euros and francs, and they charge in dinars for 90 days and change? Mr. Djelic, it would be best for you not to really show up in this congregation anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10844	The word is Mr. Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10845	Mr. Djelic, where do you live, man? What are you talking about to us? What you've been saying for these 16 minutes, God knows. You don't know what you're saying either. You know, your speech when we had the adoption of the SAA, when we ratified the SAA, was for a shade weaker than this. This really is your highlight. So no one here has said anything like this. Look, it absolutely offends the dignity of the MPs. Let me just set one thing aside for you. You're talking about a unilateral application of the SAA, so you're referring to it as a cumulative reason why someone needs you to support this whole story. Do you know what you're accomplishing? You are practically doing damage to the state on the side of the revenue you first tried to compensate by asking the IMF to grant you a VAT increase. They said, "No, you can't." Then you remembered the excise. That's where they told you, "Yes, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on," come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, Then that budget appears as inflationary. It appears as an inflationary economic measure, a negative economic measure of politics. You're saying it's something positive. Is that going to pay for that Austria? Is that gonna pay for that Sweden? They will not, but they will pay the citizens of Serbia out of their pockets, which you probably do not care at all. The other thing you said, I'd love to replicate it for you, but that man can't link what you said. Come on, please, come back, I'd love to hear from you for another 16 minutes, let's see. Please, people, protect us from the tyranny of the ministers and vice-presidents of the government, who hold a verbal tirade here that cannot be imagined. At some point, this kind of thing has to be enough. If you want to be circuses, go somewhere else, don't do it here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10846	The word is Mr. Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10847	Mr President, I did not ask for a replica, but sought the violation of Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure. I think Mr. Bozidar Djelic, vice president of the government's previous exposure Okay, I'm still gonna say whether it's a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[President: Mr Markicevic, you can get a replica, we agreed there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure.]] Go ahead, but through this form, please. Mr Djelic, you must understand that you are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today, that you are neither at the seminar nor at any NGO gathering. I've been listening to you for at least eight years. Djelic, I trusted you very much. Just tell me, do you want me to repeat the discussion from the National Assembly during the last resolution on Kosovo and Metohija? I've been raised a man and I don't use private conversations for political purposes. If you keep talking here like this, I'll use it. If you and everyone sitting behind you think we don't know what you were talking about in a closed session of the DS General Board, then you're wrong. What you said here is contrary to what you said at the closed session of the DS's board of directors. I call upon you to no longer deceive or give false hope to the citizens. You said that in 13 days or 14 days, as long as it's until December 31st, there would be visas for citizens. For some reason, maybe it's not your fault, maybe it's such an economic situation, maybe they won't take us into Europe, but these visas are no better off silent and you don't talk about visas anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10848	New Serbia is gone, it's wasted its time. The word is Mr. Jovan Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10849	The chairman, honourable MPs, distinguished representatives of the government, see, after five months, we have had our first chance, although in the past five months there have been really many major political events, although a large number of MPs in the past five months have repeatedly called on the Prime Minister to come to the National Assembly, for the first time we have met with the government and at a session to discuss its mistrust. This is where a minister came out with a call for state unity. I would remind you that all MPs of the opposition political parties in the Assembly at each session each day invited the Prime Minister and Ministers to come to the National Assembly to discuss the strategic issues of the Serbian state and to reach out, or try to achieve a state unity. When things on a series of issues got out of hand, when we came to the practical situation on the Eulex issue, on the issue of impasses in European integration, on a dispute within the government when it comes to an oil-gas deal, then at the non-trust session now we have the first time to discuss where it cannot be achieved, there is no state unity, because the debate on non-trust shows all political differences between the opposition and the position. The discussion of the government's mistrust is not an opportunity for state unity, and unfortunately, by the responsibility of the congregation's majority, the opportunity has been missed. This government began in public, so marked by those who participated in its formation, as a pro-European government. The goal, according to Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic's exhibition, is the definition of Serbia's European future, as the highest and most important goal. To remind you, there were six key issues defined as the government's programme: the definition of Serbia's European future, the non-acceptance of AP KIM independence, the necessity of strengthening the economy, strengthening the government's social responsibility, strengthening the fight against crime and corruption and respect for international law. The difference between this and the previous government is exactly in reverse order of priorities. The previous government, as the first goal, had a fight to preserve KIM, and this government has a commitment to Serbia's European future. On the basis of that first goal, she received an epithet of the pro-European government. The question arises, at this key strategic goal of what did this government do? Now we have had one discussion, the administration on the topic of Serbia's European future, and we have received this answer. The answer is - we got promises that are no guarantee, but that's a good perspective. That is the answer we received when it comes to Serbia's European future. Let me remind you, the DSS MP group in this assembly pointed out the next thing. The ruling majority has declared the issue that European integration and the preservation of KIM are two separate issues. We have pointed out here and shown on the case of the ratification of the SAA that these are two related issues, but precisely for the EU. Until the entire political story and the political dispute we have with the EU is discussed on this subject, these two issues will remain inextricably linked, although we are declaring that they are separate. The EU and KIM are fundamentally related to the EU, and every day, at every moment, every step of the EU proves it to us. When we said that we would face being forced into regional co-operation with the false state of Kosovo, we are being accused here of holding back European integration. The EU is now entering the KIM Implementation Study process. Do you have the illusion that the next step will not exactly be a request for good neighbourly co-operation? It's not just an actual, indirect confession, which is what we're talking about today, but a real and formal confession. An opportunity for state unity was missed by a debate on KIM, an opportunity was missed to discuss Serbia's European path, when the SAA was discussed. Now what has been discussed today by opposition representatives and DSS representatives, on both tracks Serbia and this government bring down the demand scale and bring down a scale of that level of requirements to the EU that are necessary to preserve national dignity. When it comes to KiM, it's the acceptance of Eulex, who we said was his role? When it comes to European integration, it is a unilateral application of the SAA, a requirement none of us has asked for and something that will damage the most Serbian economy. That is why we are coming into this unfair relationship with the EU, and this is why we are coming into a situation that, instead of the highest state goal of one responsible government to be the territorial sovereignty and power of the state, we, as the highest goal, are not to set Serbia, but to integrate it into other international organisations. It's that waterhouse between the policy we're running and this government's running. Never for the DSS will Serbia's integration into other international organisations be a higher goal than Serbia's defence and Serbia's progress and we will never agree to go into integration if it damages Serbia's integrity, its dignity, its progress and better life for citizens. These policies are shared on this issue. When calling for state unity here, we remind ourselves that all obstacles and all possibilities for this unity to be achieved here in parliament were possible, only that the Prime Minister and the ministers responded to the demands of the MPs. We have been called here several times, as an opposition, to obstruct the work of the National Assembly, and we have just done so knowing that this will happen, that the day will happen when the highest representatives of the government, trying to conceal their policy that is unsuccessful, will call the National Assembly on unity. It's that vision we had and that's what we knew would happen. That is why this debate today is the most deeply divided in Serbian political society, because strategic issues were not agreed and discussed in time. That is why we will be late for European integration and therefore we will hear about perspectives and promises that are no guarantee, and that is why we will apply an agreement that directly affects our incomes, our budget and our economy, which still has no power and competitiveness to deal with the competitiveness of European companies and that is why we will continue to be in the National Assembly all witnesses of serious discussions where this country is going. The highlight of all this is the debate on the oil-gas deal that has been led here, which has been supported by a large number of MPs, so the next day will start to challenge it, because if Serbia is estimated to have caved in on the Eulex, if it is estimated that it has decided to unilaterally apply the SAA, then why not bring down an extremely important strategic agreement that allows economic development, and on the other hand, binds it to one rise force, such as the Russian Federation. It doesn't suit either one of us, that Serbia stands on its feet, that its economy strengthens and has strong and strong ties to the Russian Federation. These three things, where this government has fallen, where it has shown weakness, Eulex, European integration and the application of the SAA and the oil-gas agreement, are evidence of why this government needs to vote for mistrust and why our policy of strong defence of national priorities, national dignity and strategic interests of Serbia must win in the first subsequent elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10850	Thank you, Mr. Palalic. Mr. Canak, on the list of ZES, you have three hours and 11 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10851	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, comrades and comrades, the Honorable Presidency, brothers and sisters, have I called you all now? I'm very glad I have this much time, because what I'm about to say won't be short. First of all, I would like to address you, Mr. Prime Minister, as one important historical lesson about the fate of General Yamashita. General Yamashita, for those who do not remember it, was the commander of the Japanese Imperial Army in the Philippines and as such issued a written order not to commit war crimes against the civilian population. Nevertheless, the Japanese army did very ugly things and in October 1945, General Yamashita was convicted of war crimes and hanged, despite giving a written order. He was hanged because it was a command responsibility. We heard from this pay phone that apparently you're not the Prime Minister and you don't have full responsibility for everything that's going on in this country. Yet I will draw attention to this historical example, not that you will be hanged, although I am not disfellowshipping, but that you will have to bear full responsibility for what this government has done. I would remind you of the exposures you filed from this same pay phone when you were elected prime minister. I will remind you that you were then talking about a number of additional reforms that need to be implemented on the road to Serbia's EU membership. I must say that the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina has not noticed these numerous reforms. We can note that you said that one of the priorities of the new government is further deepening and expanding Serbia's economic and political relations with the Russian Federation, in this direction the ratification of a gas deal with Gazprom in the Serbian Parliament will be one of the first legislative initiatives. Serbian citizens did not vote for this and such a parliamentary majority in order to maintain continuity with the past government of Kostunica, Dr Vojislav, and let alone something forbidden by a member of the Constitution 128, which is that the government whose mandate has ceased can only carry out tasks by law until the election of the new government. What am I talking about? I'm talking about that Ilic Mr Velimir signed on behalf of and of such a government, which was, remember, then in resignation, that same agreement that we were supposed to ratify at the time. Meanwhile, the Russian side has given up the agreement, so now there are no agreements but there are three agreements. It's no longer an interstate agreement but a sale, and when it's sold, a tender has to be made. I have no intention, Mr. Prime Minister, of telling you about the laws. You all know it far better than I do. I've mostly been an object of law enforcement, but I'd like to draw your attention that these are things you can't do if you want to preserve the dignity of this government. I would draw attention to that, three hours and 11 minutes ago, it's been three minutes and 52 seconds, that that embarrassing concession contract, which Ilic Mr Velimir's name is also bound to, and there's Ilic Mr Velimir, which I am very pleased with, so he will be able to disprove me in his brilliant rhetorical locks. That concession I'm talking about here is broken. I am happy that there has finally been some reason in this congregation, which broke out in two terms. But right now we have a situation in the state that as far as the urban mafia is concerned, Goran Knezevic is in prison, and Velimir Ilic is at large. That when we compare, the possibility of the urban mafia and its crime, between Goran Knezevic and those who said what was the minister crossing the five-mile highway, or those who spoke, let's steal, and you waved, is like between "woman in Black" and Joce Amsterdam. Does Goran Knezevic have the right to defend himself from freedom? It is a question not only for this congregation, but it is a far broader question. If we let the unreformed interior ministry, and I will remind Mr. Prime Minister, when a bright thing was done in this country, when Dr. Dabic was arrested by Alias Radovan Karadzic, it was not news that one of the three most wanted war criminals on the planet had been brought to justice, but was news that the interior minister had been fenced from it and that he said, the minister in your government, Mr. Prime Minister, that the MUP had not taken part in it. Then who was involved? Who took part, and who can arrest it in this country without this congregation knowing that this congregation can't know? Furthermore, what happened to this same M.O.P. who did not respond to finding not only those who burned embassies after the Prince Michael in Belgrade, but those who conspired with them, instructed and organized them? How is it possible that those who have demoted the cities of the past years, all under the pretext of joy over sports encounters and sports results of Serbia, have not been brought to justice today? Is that even gonna happen? What are we going to do with this government bringing a series of wrong estimates, so to speak? Unilateral application of the SAA, i.e. The interim trade agreement, applying this agreement, we came into a situation where the budget cannot be filled enough, which is why the budget for agriculture, for example, has been reduced, and at the same time we have a situation where the government that has sworn to be socially responsible, the same government surprises private gas consumers, surprises them by suddenly comparing the world's price of gas, is being taken up by 60%. I have one question. We talked about it and my great joy has shown some results, but everything this government will contribute to Serbia's budget, by insisting on market prices, will bring into Serbia's 130m-euro budget. That's the total difference. Those 130m euros, it is nothing compared to the price difference between 400m euros, for which NIS is sold, and a billion and 100m as objectively cost half the NIS price. I'm not even going in at this point and this place. You know, Mr. Prime Minister, last year when you were Minister of Finance, it was quite complicated to determine how much money was planned to honour the constitutional obligation to the AP Vojvodina really paid. I was against it, the LSV was against it. There are others here who have been against this constitution, but most in this assembly have brought the Constitution by which Vojvodina should be paid 7% of Serbia's budget for the Vojvodina budget. It was not possible to do so last year, and this year it will be evident and will be seen not to be done, but rather to fill the budget with very modest and very powerful arrangements, you as prime minister of Serbia and Bojan Pajtic as president of the Executive Council of Vojvodina. An intrapartial agreement solves something that is a constitutional category. I'm not talking about a single party, I'm not talking about anything like that. I'm talking about the party state, which is formed by it, cannot and cannot exist. That's not what you were talking about in your exposé. We have come to the situation, Mr. Cvetkovic, that in the restitution law the property of the SPC is returned, but not to the citizens. When I talk about the SPC that we understand each other right away, I will talk about a very specific case, which is the return of six thousand acres of forest in Frusca Gora, which is currently part of the National Park "Fruška Gora". What's already been returned to the church, as far as it's sold by morning, and if it comes back to the church of these six thousand acres in the way the church requires, and that's in nature, and not to be compensated, we'll be in a position that Vojvodina, which has only 2% of the surface under the woods, loses, practically, the only serious national park. These are topics, Mr. Cvetkovic, which I really believed you would understand better when I speak of them and that you would pay more attention to them. I understand that you've been filled with problems and that everything that's happened to you has left consequences. I can understand a lot of things, but I can't understand how it's possible that the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing has been withdrawn from the procedure? How come the lustration in this country is so slow? I have one more question, Mr. Cvetkovic, it won't be the last. The question is, what happened to Kosovo? Kosovo, as a subject very often mentioned here, is a topic that serves exclusively as in Broz's time served as a question of self-government socialism, active peaceful co-existence, the Movement of Unclassified and Brotherhood and Unity. Anyone mentioned in that context that didn't show up on Tito's path was usually found, as it was said then, where it should be. I ask the question: Why has Kosovo become a question that none of us can talk about, can talk about, let alone ask, let's say, what happened to the Action Plan for Kosovo that passed the government, where Kosovo Minister Samardzic was done? What's this action plan all about? It came down to one, that none of the MPs ever had a chance to see him legally. No one has had a chance to see what the decision of all of us will be, because if someone else decides instead of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then that means that a coup has been made in this country and that the people no longer decide, but the executive authorities decide. If the executives decide, there is no difference between military or police dictatorship. Of course, I expected, as a man who has a great moral privilege not to be in your government, to get those answers sooner. I expected, of course, that action programme, which we are now talking about, to be born to at least Serbian citizens, does not have to go directly on television, if that is the state secret. But it can't be that we all need to be covered for something that's been done behind our backs, and what the past government has done, which is why it's justly punished in the elections. But I'm interested in why this government is suffering and why this government hasn't shown, is the action programme saying that ambassadors of the countries that have admitted, as they like to say from these speakers, are false states of Kosovo. Is that an action program? If so, at what point of view of the action programme was Montenegro's ambassador expelled, when it was not done with the ambassador, say, Germany, France, the United States or anyone else? How is that possible? On what basis is selective justice done in this country, Mr. Prime Minister? Because if that action programme were seen, then we would have a clear picture, which is that in this country, the same government that spoke with Kosovo offered the Republic of Kosovo to recognise any sovereignty of Serbia. Do you know what was offered in previous negotiations? No one knows. He is hiding because everything that separatists are accused of is the same government as Vojislav Kostunica, the same minister Samardzic, offered, but they must not show you, they must not show, because negotiations on their fate are being held behind the backs of the country's citizens. It didn't start yesterday, it didn't start even yesterday, it started on the unfortunate day that Kostunica became Prime Minister. It continued when, with the support of the DS, it was in the second term. That's why I thought that at least now some of those injustices would be corrected, but that didn't happen. I ask the question - why? Why can't the domestic gas produced in this country heat people's homes and help them survive. What is transition and what is privatisation? Privatisation does not serve to distribute people's property for free, but to move from a socialist type of production and economy to a marketable one. That period must survive. People have the right to expect their government to survive. There's a lot of thieves, you're absolutely right. But I ask the question, why is it that of all these thieves, the only one sitting in prison is Goran Knezevic, and not sitting all the camels of those who are supposed to stand in the face of justice? Is there a reform of the judiciary? Has the police reform or the police of past times dictated today who will be arrested, and in fear of, my God, some objectivity, no one will blame in that dust, the mud and the clay in which Serbia has been pushed over the past years? Just because of what I've said, Mr. Cvetkovic, believe me, I'm horrified when I realize that from this pay phone, the DSS is talking about how to go faster with them to Europe, and SPS representatives are talking about how we've issued our goals on October 5th. Guys, I really don't know what's going on here, but I do know one thing, the moment I think this government should go, I'm facing one terrible fact, and that's that this government is the better one in Serbia that can't be made up. Unfortunately, that's why everyone else had the chance. Everyone else had a chance and a chance. The SRS, which has given hope to so many citizens, millions of Serbian citizens, and beyond, that it will finally return justice to this country, fell apart 15 minutes after the elections. Why? Because she didn't come to power. Gentlemen, I don't care which of you will be in power, we haven't been, and it seems we won't even be in power, I'm talking about LSV. But I know something else, dear friends, this government is still, unfortunately, my big, worst. The years of Serbia's devastation couldn't have run out of consequences. So I ask you, Mr. Cvetkovic, and the honourable members of the government, to take my well-intentioned remarks in the best way possible. You have my voice, coerced by the fact that the better government is gone right now. As soon as she does, don't count on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10852	Mr. Velimir Ilic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10853	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, citizens of Serbia, poor Serbia that has a government supported by Nenad Canak. Poor Serbia, this poor people waiting for him to support the government, give her a vote. I know he's in a crisis, but all his friends, his best friends, his cousins know where they are, and he's in a big crisis right now. I know he used to be a little normal man. His mom was a college professor to me. (President: Mr. Ilic, don't qualify like that, don't, please don't. I know the same Canak family when, as a student, I lived with the Canak family and when I knew and met a little boy, you know how they played it, the mayor's dad, and he's driven by a Mercedes, so he says -- whose son it is, not to repeat, to remind me again of the president. One guy who had a bigger head and some other body parts than the whole one. I thought he came to his senses. The same Canak once proposed to me in DOS as president of Serbia, but a man fell off the bike and mixed everything up. Until he fell off the bike and started driving across the street... Mr. Ilich, I will punish you. )......................................................................................................... It was all right. However, we are miserable here what we must endure and listen to. They say concession; concession is the best contract signed in the past government. The concession makes a highway connecting Central Europe with the Adriatic Sea. The concession unbreakably connects Vojvodina, Serbia-Montenegro. The concession is the future of Serbia and the only way to build a highway from Horgos to Bar. Montenegro's already doing its part, but it can't be because of these. They say there's no people down there, they say nobody lives down there, they say they're all they need, and we don't need anything. Boris Tadic, as long as you support people like this, who make statutes, flags, anthems, who make a country in the country and we waste so much time, there's nothing from you, Boris, this is your shot. Boris Tadic is responsible for this man who was here at the pay phone. If he were lucky, he'd go straight to prison for all this and start applying the statutes without this New Year's Eve Parliament. Right away in prison, if there's a rule of law. (President: Time, Mr. Ilich. So, there's nothing here, so please, there's nothing while you're here, Mr. Canak. There is nothing, you are poor, poor Serbia is poor, which depends on you and is a poor government that depends on you and Kostreša. You'd better play the flute, entertain the people. Otherwise, at the king's court you were the greatest entertainment and we rejoiced, the court came alive, finally got, you know what every castle must have. (President: Please, you have no word. Now, when I saw him there, I said, now we've got the right king.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10854	Mr. Canak, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10855	I proposed that Ilic Mr Velimir, before he mastered, be president of Serbia, because we were then in the DOS, so that in order to create some kind of national unity, we received everyone. That's why I thought Velimir Ilic, as a man of great organizational abilities, would make his constructive contribution. Unfortunately, however, his constructive contribution proved not to be better for the state than for him. These stories about my mother teaching math, that's what I believe. She used to teach mostly for people who needed a lot of help. I know that well.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10856	Mr. Canak, I should still...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10857	I'm just talking about my mother.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10858	I believe you're talking about your mother, but it's really not right to insult Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10859	I believe we should do something about it. All in all, the situation is very simple, I know Mr. Ilic is nervous, the concession is broken, all roads are heading for him. It is quite clear that this story of you making statutes and flags, I understand that the harder you understand, I repeat, is not LSV any rules, the DS has made the statutes of Vojvodina, i.e.. His proposal that is now under way, so you know. We're not the address, they're the address. Talk to them. Because if it were up to us, the Duke would have no statute but a constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10860	Dr. Milet Poscurica has a word. You have no word, Mr. Ilich. You don't have a word. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10861	Here, you've heard what we're going to talk about. Some took me a lot of math classes. But, Mr. Chanak, I've done it successfully and successfully, I've been a very good engineer, and you've had to finish college, in the end of some economy of yours, you, Kostresh and your party buddies, with my Chachanin Dula Mufta. You know who Dule Mufta is? And even though your mom was a professor, you ended up with some flute, and then you had to finish at Dul Muffta's, get some education, shame, a man of such high office. That's why you let them use the fair rooms, where you ran the board of directors, to get space, but to give you a few diplomas. You see how sad it is when a child of a professor of the university has to go to Dul Mufta's, and Dule Mufta made those great wedding invitations, for weddings, etc., a man came to make a university and to have Mr. Chanak, who, unfortunately, is a professor's child and a mayor's dad, and he didn't take what's out of the Mercedes, but kept driving it, he couldn't finish anything. It's a misery and an accident. You see, he says he'd make a constitution. In the Serbian Parliament, you are announcing, as you have made your passport, Mr. Canak, and you are sharing it with your party members. You have a passport, I've got it at home, I'll bring it to the next session and I'll split it up. You've shared a passport that says "the Duke's Republic", Mr. Canak. Shame on you. You're breaking up the country. You're not supposed to be here. You're supposed to be in jail. It's your place in prison and keep it up, but remember, you'll end up in jail, I guarantee you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10862	I'm setting a five-minute break. [[After break – 21.15]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on. The word is from Dr. Milet Poscurica. I ask the MPs to sit down. Here you go, Mr. Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10864	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote of mistrust can, as a rule, mean and most often means a political pragmatism that is quite appropriate to parties who do not participate in the formation of the Government. So, quite legitimate need to, by causing instability in the government, as well as by causing its fall, cause elections and then show that the political party, which is in the opposition, would be able to do responsible government affairs in a different way, certainly better, more efficient, more reliable and acceptable. Of course, the reasons for not trusting the government can be so defined as to mark, first of all, its inability to solve the problems ahead of it, and most often represents the fact that it does not carry out what it has promised as its priorities during its formation. Finally, the government's mistrust can be voted and then, at least encourage it to happen when cracks in its functioning are observed. It seems to me that tonight we have all three options, all three reasons why we should continue at this insistence, even though we from the SNS, although we were not formal initiators, because in the initiation of this procedure we were surrounded by the will of some other kind of opposition. Part of the opposition is now trying to turn the expected calmness in parliament's work after the break into a different kind of chaos. But well, it's a way of doing the work of the political opposition that is now in parliament, again in a certain way, united by a common goal, to show that this government does not deserve Parliament's trust. I said we could best show it by considering what the government was, at the time of its formation, at least through the Prime Minister's exposés, and offered. It certainly did offer Serbia's European perspective, which finally ends with the adoption of the SAA, and to God and the Trade Agreement now applied unilaterally. According to most of the MPs who spoke today, it is applied so that Serbia will have damages. In the part of the exposé, I suppose it would prove to be a government that would lead some kind of equidistance towards what European integration is offering, the prime minister spoke in an exposé and what he was offering to connect with the East, and the government was supposed to realise this, close co-operation with the Russian Federation. This particular fact was the moment when the first cracks in government function turned out to be. For the first time, it was seen that the head of the negotiating team could leave, for failure to implement or disrespect his concept and his view of what should be done next, following the ratification of the energy agreement. He wanted someone from the government to say that it is probably necessary for someone else to be senior, other than the prime minister and president of the Russian Federation, to guarantee that the agreement will be held. It's not the only reason we need to think about where this government is headed. She was talking about Kosovo. Despite an apparent feeling that the foreign minister at that famous Security Council session really spoke a dissonant, more distraught tone compared to an earlier condescending and peaceable tone, and addressed the Serbian problem to the international court to give him his final position, but still as soon as he introduced EULEX, the government introduced him, without him going there with some pledoaje, with something that had been trying to impress this assembly for months before, so who knows which order of resolution, to base him on how he could perform there, because it was formally honored six points. When we look at how Eulex is being deployed and what's going on with Eulex now, we see that we're not sure that we're going to have another problem at the drug border in a few months. We already have a problem in Kosovo's Wittina with electricity, so no mobile phone transmitters, no fixed telephony. We haven't had the opportunity for months to see that the government has shown responsibility to KIM, it is possible to make sure that several months all of the municipalities of the Kosovo Maritime region couldn't offer hot wood for schools. So there are problems. Apparently, some of them could easily and simply get rid of each other. I don't mean to ablimate and make a parallel between one or this government, let them do it alone when they're making bills. Furthermore, why do we think that this government may not enjoy so much trust from the citizens of Serbia, are the elements of the prime minister's pledoaje, which spoke of this country expecting economic prosperity. Some elements of economic prosperity have indeed been promoted as a pre-election campaign. What about the thousand euros they'll each have now? We remember the bombing announcements on state television, when the Deputy Prime Minister personally signed a contract on the bank's counter to get a thousand euros if, of course, the sale and privatisation is completed, as intended. Of course, it's nothing. We also remember the fact that there was talk that if this government proved worthy of implementing the programme, it would be better to live, that we would have a white Schengen, so to speak, at the end of the year. And it seems beyond what we expected, maybe a year and more backwards from what we expected. In addition to global criticism, when you criticize the government globally and when you look at what has not been achieved in its pledoaje, you have the right to demonstrate the segmental disadvantages of individual ministers. Some I have spoken of, but wanting to avoid the fact that the continued repetition of what is bad in that government, even through the work of certain ministers, will now look back on the second segment - segment of the Ministry of Health. I am sorry that it may want to hit some MPs who belong to this political group here, but I do not wish to claim that all those in that political group, were MPs, councilors, sympathisers or members, have such animosal appetites and such an unrealistic perception that without them cannot function, as the Minister of Health has, so four mandates implement a policy for which we are sure, that is, I have paper where and the Chamber, formed by the minister in its image and opportunity, is not satisfied with what he has set out as the realization of Article 277. The health care law. When the law was passed, we told the government then that the law was not good and that there were bad sides, now that same chamber, that of his newborn, wrote to him that in the Constitutional Court he would seek the assessment of the constitutionality of Article 277. What did he actually do? What 28,000 Serbian doctors and who knows how many more tens of thousands of technicians, pharmacists, have made it unclear what will happen to them after 11 December. The rule that he passed through the official messenger is pretty vague. Quite from what the minister has passed through this Additional Work Regulation is different from what has been promoted in the media for the last month or two days. He introduced a story about the right to private practice, additional work in private practice, only teachers, professors and teachers. That's not in this rulebook right now. The remaining obligation was for one who wanted to work in private practice to take a third working relationship and to have one third of the social and disability and salary obligations borne by a private employer. What discomfort this will bring many privates to our senses. This will not make the goal that health will be available to all. That's more than clear. It remains unclear why the minister has prescribed some of the items in this Regulation that will exclusively be able to be realised through additional work, which is, say, the right to take medical assurances for enrolment in high school. That'll be charged extra. What about the school dispensaries? Why don't they do it? Why would someone charge that? Treatment of acute alcoholic state, if so-called the night clinic, whether only alcoholics are being treated at night and why they should be paid, are one of the picanterias and details that create a question about what he wanted with his own regulation to do to the health minister. We talked about some earlier, and we'll talk about some details when we talk about the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10865	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Ostojić has the word. The LDP parliamentary group has 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10866	President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we just attended a classic case of obstruction by the ruling majority. We know that this is to blame for all that is wrong in the state of parliament because another argument for everything that is wrong in the country is the economic crisis. Madam President, you have allowed, knowing well what the discussion of Nenada Chanka will cause, a replica of someone who is not the head of the parliamentary group or deputy, because he himself said he has three hours at his own disposal of the time of his coalition with which he participated in the elections. It's not the first time. The second method you use is to send this favorite opposition to a pay phone, knowing that after that, SRS MPs will react and then radicals are guilty of parliament being blocked, and everything else is blamed for the global economic crisis. It's one constant that happens here. Marketing and what it says in the paper can't fix the government's work. You've led to the fact that all the ministers have gone because you want to make this session difficult by midnight, there are only two of them left from the SPS and I'm having a really hard time saying it, but somehow in this government, the SPS ministers still look normal and act normal. You take this as a compliment, no matter how hard it is for me to say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10867	Mr. Ostojić, all ministers are normal in this government. Please don't talk about ministers in this government that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10868	We of the LDP resent a lot of things to this government and in this time that I have left I will try to say what, but we do not resent what the proposings are putting into their reasoning because, in the end, EULEX brings justice and justice to Kosovo, justice and justice need Serbs in Kosovo, above all, and above all, all citizens, but most of all, Serbs. We have been pushing for this mission since the beginning, because we truly want Serbia in the European Union, Serbia successful in European integration. On the other hand, there are also truths in some arguments submitted by the initiative that this is, in fact, the legalisation of Eulex and it is not necessary to run away, Vesna Pesic said more. But what do we blame the government? Above all, above all, and above all, the backdrop, collapse and tripping when it comes to European integration. Since the formation of this government, only one big European job has been done, which is a ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and has been done by the Assembly. Unfortunately, she ratified an energy agreement with Russia that day, but this was still a success. Mr. Cvetkovic said the government did 64 laws. That may be true, only we don't know where your laws are. When they get to the congregation, we'll see what they're like. I remind you that at this session of laws, which were over 400 amendments, about 150 were filed by the ruling majority. This means that the laws are faltering, flawed when the ruling majority and the government must put amendments on them. Not to remind the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which was also on the agenda and withdrawn. So he's dealing with laws. Mr Cvetkovic said there are two other laws, five conventions, six strategies and three institutions missing for the white Schengen list. That's another year's work. It is no wonder that we are lagging behind in integrations when the man in charge of European integration, Deputy Prime Minister Mr Djelic, is able to falsify a report from Brussels to MPs, and it looks like the government, and it all comes down to marketing, in which only numbers, or years. Everything will be in the future, constantly new years and new promises. We resent the government, above all, and above all, strengthening the party state, dividing the prey of something that is state property, not party, I'm talking about public enterprises. It's the main generator of corruption in the country, and it's another thing we resent to the government, the inability to deal with it, not accepting what we're proposing already from formation. It's not the biggest problem in this country that pays in public enterprises, it's the public procurement. Since 2005, NIS has not respected the Public Procurement Act because it is a stock company, and the value of public procurement in NIS is 100m euros per year. We resent the energy agreement. And if America, as someone said, had done something like this to Serbia, would have been against selling NIS without guarantees. We hope that the Constitutional Court will confirm our initiative and our claims that the agreement is unconstitutional and we ask that it cease its activities until the Constitutional Court is declared. We resent the government for tightening relations with its neighbours because it no doubt happened. We think that the foreign minister is not doing his job well or is not doing a good job if it is the European Government that is heading towards European integration. We think it is crazy and that in any case it is not a contribution to Serbia's European affairs to vote against the EU resolution, which requires Iran to be convicted of human rights violations, and that in the most brutal way it applies Sharia law and cuts hands and limbs to children and women. We voted that it was not a violation of human rights, and the EU proposed that resolution. We therefore see that Europe is not a priority, at least when it comes to the foreign minister. We will vote against the initiative because simple reasoning is not good, but in any case we will continue to give you the hand, but at this point we do not see that someone can accept it. There's no vision in the government. We offer solutions, solutions are not accepted. Unfortunately, we are increasingly skeptical that this government will be nothing when it comes to European affairs. There is no unity in old politics because old politics have run over time and proved to be wrong. Unfortunately, in this government we see a lot of continuity with the previous and we don't like it. We expected Mr. Cvetkovic's vision. We are ready to assist in European affairs, but it seems to be only one side, ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10869	The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10870	Ladies and gentlemen, the acceptance of the Eulex mission is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution preamble states that KIM is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. It is also referred to in Article 182. The Constitution. On the other hand, in a statement by the EU Council of Ministers on the adoption of a document called Joint Action, it is otherwise the legal basis for the Eulexa mission or the foundation, according to Ivo de Kermabon, the head of the mission and the mission the other day, it is said that the goal of Eulexa - is to assist Kosovo authorities, judicial authorities and law enforcement services in progress towards becoming independent. So, the Constitution of Serbia and the joint EU action, adopted, reminds me of a particularly provocative way on 16 February 2008, just the day before the so-called so-called. An independent Kosovo, mutually excluded. It is a fact that cannot be challenged in an argumentable and serious way. Hiding behind the consent of the Russian Federation is more than an incorrect and hypocritical transfer of responsibility to the country, the only real ally at this time, and the transfer of responsibility to a country that has just worsened its relations with the West because of Kosovo and whose investments are choking here for political and not economic reasons, above all, I mean selling NIS. In this context and for the sake of truth, I remind you that Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on 17 March 2007, that "we cannot be bigger Serbs than they are themselves. It all depends on their position. "Also, there is transparency behind the process launched before the International Court of Justice. A prominent international public law professor from Belgrade University, Milan Paunovic, told the team about October 8th of this year -- the acceptance of Serbia's draft resolution in the UN General Assembly is the first step in the fight to be lost in advance, as the International Court of Justice will give only an advisory, non-binding opinion. So that is the opinion of the legal profession, and Professor Paunovic adds that the call for Pristina to plead, on the other hand, would further damage our position. Also, not even a phrase about any neutral status of Eulex can hide reality. This reality is open to foreign officials. For example. Italian Foreign Ministry State Secretary Alfredo Mantical said on November 20th in an interview with Politici -- the deployment of Eulex across Kosovo's territory is a necessary prerequisite for Kosovo's recognition. So, considering all these facts, we can conclude this: EULEX excludes the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Russians accepted EULEX because it was Belgrade's decision. Eulex is not status neutral. I point out that this final conclusion is based on the interpretation of the senior official of the Italian Foreign Ministry, a country that is the fourth economic power in the EU, a country that is a member of the G8 club and whose gross domestic product is among the world's top 20. So this interpretation seems more convincing, more true than anything the ministers and the government tell us about Eulex. Ladies and gentlemen, the deployment of Eulex cannot even be justified by economic reasons. We won't live better if we give up KIM, on the contrary. That's what the following examples show. Brussels has set up 205m euros to finance Eulex. This is more sum than the total annual aid to our country from the EU pre-accession fund. So it is clear what the priorities of Brussels are - independent Kosovo, not economic aid to Serbia and its citizens. Our citizens should also know that precisely because of the EU, the unilateral implementation of the Transition Agreement will have a budget deficit of over 300m euros. This is usually a minimum estimate. So, in the year when we are expected by the major economic crisis, the EU is taking us 300m euros. Those are facts, the rest are phrases about so-called. the European route and the Brussels dogma. We can also share the EU's overall assistance in relation to the population and come to the conclusion that we should give up KIM for about 100 euros per capita. Our citizens should also know that in the coming years Brussels, through the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, will gradually destroy our industry and agriculture. Just enough to compare German exports of about 1,000 billion euros a year and ours of about six billion euros. So the question is, is it worth it to sacrifice our spiritual cradle KIM because of this economically harmful Brussels road? Is it worth it because of the so-called. We lose our other province on the way to Brussels? The responsible authority must face this dilemma. She can't hide behind a titoistic phrase about some bridge between the East and the West. It is known how this megalomanical and unrealistic policy ended. We are a small and poor country. We need to define ourselves as an ally, which will allow us to preserve KIM, but also to live better. That's why the government has to show at least a minimum of courage and state-owned far-sightedness. Hiding behind phrases and a dogma about a virtual paradise that awaits us allegedly in the EU leads to nothing. The responsible authority must determine whether it will be the closest ally with the Russian Federation or whether it will continue to lead Serbia towards self-destruction, political and economic. This government is obviously unable to deal with such dilemmas. She doesn't understand or won't understand new relationships in the world, although everyone in the world understood that after the events in Ossetia and Abkhazia. They figured it out even in Bolivia and wouldn't let the American ambassador, as Mr. Manter does to us, run internal politics. That's why this government should leave today. Tomorrow can be too late for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10871	Mrs. Milica Radovic, DSS-Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10872	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable members of the government, I find it difficult in this little time left for the DSS parliamentary group to count all the mistakes the government has made in this short time, to say what it took and not to point out what was promised, and what has not been fulfilled so far. I'll just ask -- what about free shares? Has each of the citizens, as promised, received 1,000 euros, as one of the ministers who is not here at the moment said? Of course not. What about the 200,000 new jobs promised? Nothing. What about foreign investments? Nothing. What about pension growth, which was promised at 70% of the average salary? Nothing. What happened to the defrosting of the interim agreement, or trade agreement with the EU? Nothing, either. What happened to the white Schengen leaf? It's a long way. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, yesterday you demonstrated your impotence, yesterday you showed that you failed the exam by who knows which time. Yesterday, we forced you to vote on travel documents, something you accused the opposition of for a long time, which you are, by means of the media, which you yourself control, and also in this assembly, accusing us that we, because we are reporting by amendment, are against the interests of our citizens themselves. We forced you yesterday and we gave up our discussions to vote. What happened to the vote? You were gone. Whether you didn't want to or couldn't, we don't go for reasons. Anyway, the vote wasn't held. I'll just say that out of the economic measures that Mr Cvetkovic put out in his exposé, there was also nothing. You promised a steady growth in economic activity of 7%, employment growth, standards increase, even regional development. Now I can only tell you that it is extremely uncertain whether we will achieve a growth of even 3.5%, as many from the government say, especially in a situation where the finance minister keeps talking about a 3% growth, and many economists mention a 2% growth. If the 3.5% rate doesn't come true, then I have to tell you that not only is the budget charged, as planned in the way you planned, it won't be possible. Customs collection revenues are drastically reduced due to the unilateral application of the Trade Agreement with the EU, an agreement that is neither time nor place at the moment, an agreement that pumps out of the 300m-euro budget itself, according to Mr Djelic. This, after all, raises the question and the declared deficit of 1.5% that you promised the IMF and under which he committed himself to pump into the budget another $520m. Instead of drawing an increase of 4.2 billion dinar deficits for 2009, it would have been better if the government had done everything to reduce public spending, but not to reduce it in the way it does now, to do nothing, to do nothing, and to fire workers, that only in the last two months we have a situation where more than 5,000 workers have been fired. I think the government should, in its example, show that public spending should be reduced, first of all, to reduce the costs of various cabinets that, through this draft budget, have increased even to five times. We have no understanding of the fact that, due to an irresponsible and inadequate government reaction, 700m euros in savings has been withdrawn from the banks. I have to say, and don't blame me if I'm too harsh, but just because of the vanity, the government has not accepted the DSS proposal to immediately increase the level of secured deposits to 20,000 euros. This would certainly be able to prevent a massive outflow of funds and banks themselves and make the state's situation more stable anyway. In this little time that I have left, I will also look back at the state of justice. We recently completed a marathon debate on a set of judicial laws. The most dissatisfaction was caused by the law on a new network of courts, which abolished 104 municipal courts and the same number of public prosecutors. What's even worse about this is that it's done without any predetermined and established serious analysis and no criteria whatsoever. It's an extremely dangerous amateur attempt. Why do I say try? Because it is clear to everyone in this House that this law will not be passed. You also had today the address of some MPs of the ruling coalition, who were just speaking in that direction. We warned the Minister of Justice, I don't know how many times, on this outcome. There was no hearing. Each of you is clear on what is the fate of such a legislative proposal and what will be the consequence if, possibly, the non-election of such a proposal, what will be the consequence of your ever-wrought ranks of the ruling coalition. I'm afraid you don't have enough room for reactions right now. I'm not sure you can pull this bill out of the process. I think we're going to have to vote on him, and the outcome, I hope, will have a chance to see you Saturday. I have said many times so far that this bill will not cut costs, which should have been the main reason why these laws are being passed. In them you will be directly responsible for emptying the border areas, you will be responsible for the death of many places where, I must remind you, the largest number of employees are just employed in these state bodies. I also talked about the danger that representatives of national minorities would waver from using their mother tongues because of inadequate translation, because they did not have to do so before, but this legislative proposal would be binding. I also talked about the huge layoff of workers and about the mass of other negative consequences, but the minister of justice had no hearing about it. If this law is brought to life, you will create chaos in the Belgrade judiciary. Two million inhabitants and 17 municipalities, as many as there are in Belgrade, will have only two basic courts. We've asked Mrs. Minister several times to tell us -- what criteria led her to propose something like this to the Parliament itself? We explained to her that it was impossible for there to be a court in which 284 judges would work and there would be 100,000 cases. We were all from this pay phone for who knows how many times we talked, but there was no hearing. We also asked her which building she thought she would place such a court, in which would be 150 courtrooms? I warn you, there is no such thing in the world. This will lead to the absurdity of the justice system itself. It's up to you, you deal with the fact that you're gonna get out of this situation. At the very end, I must say, how dangerous it is to move Eulex on the territory of the Serbian southern province, it will best show the first verdict... (President: Time. ) EULEX judges who will be passed by applying the laws of the independent Republic of Kosovo and I hope that you will then become aware of how neutral EULEX is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10873	Thank you. Mrs. Natasa Micic is not here, but you can, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10874	Thank you. I have to say, as the last or last speaker, on behalf of the LDP, we've been sitting here all day and we've been arguing for more than 12 hours. You really heard more or less all the arguments against this government. There was not enough time to talk about many, perhaps more important than those discussed, such as the subject of corruption in the government, the topic of responsibility for corruption, and perhaps the most important thing I would like to say today. One of the things why we were against this opposition initiative is that we think this is not the time in which a debate on the government should be held in Serbia. All civilized countries, aware of the arrival of a major economic crisis or a global economic crisis, have somehow tried to find some kind of dialogue and offer common solutions to the crisis. There was no time for any new fights. Unfortunately, that's not what we heard about. I must point out, only the activity of the Prime Minister himself, Mr Cvetkovic, who is conducting some kind of consultation with the parliamentary groups, but it is more of an informal conversation than is actually a real dialogue between the authorities and the opposition. The opposition used to do so for a few days here. Obstruction of parliament's work, warning of a crisis that is coming and the consequences Serbia will face. On the side of the government, we were called narrators, fearers of the people. There have been claims from the government itself that this economic crisis will make progress, that Serbia will earn money after the modern world collapses, etc. We have realized that it is not actually possible for this government, in spite of these inspiring speeches, first of all, the foreign minister, inspired or speech that is, above all, acting, to offer some kind of national unity, or the unity of citizens or parties in parliament. In fact, there must be some idea behind every unity. This idea is a way or a topic, the content around which this unity is realized. This government has shown for its six months that it is unable to offer any new ideas. She's not capable, in the opinion of former coalition partners, of continuing the idea of the last government. It is a set of some petty interests that in the 19-party coalition, mutual blackmail, do not allow elections to take place. We're not voting for this initiative. I think it's important to be clear. When this government was formed, the LDP was abstentioned, it will still be abstentioned at the vote today. We'll be there and we'll be held back. Our attitude doesn't change. Unfortunately, with all the replicas today by the prime minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, I don't think there will be any winners today, and what we can all expect is for this government to bring down its own incompetence, perhaps on Saturday at a vote on the territorial organisation of courts, and certainly in the coming year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10875	Mr. Otto Kishmarton has a word. The SNS Group has 19 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10876	Dear Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, tonight we see that there will certainly be no change, that is, the fall of the Government. Only if we achieve something that the future government will work better. By the way, the world has fallen into a major economic crisis. Last year, other countries' governments have long taken measures to mitigate the impact of the crisis on their economy. Our government did not recognize in time the emergence of a global crisis, or so it seems, so it did not take any visible measures to mitigate the impact of the economic crisis on our country. Two months ago, individuals in power said that the crisis would not hit us or that we might even benefit from this global crisis. Then they said the crisis would hit us a little bit, but we'd sort it out. Before the elections, there was a global economic crisis, but yet individuals from our government promised citizens hundreds of thousands of new jobs, significantly higher pensions, free education, large foreign investment in our economy, the fight against crime and corruption, greater economic growth, developed economy, then 1,000 euros of free action and much more nice. The truths we'd find ourselves in a crisis if it wasn't for the spilling of a global bad economy and financial crisis on our country. The reason for the crisis with us, besides the global crisis, has been a poorly-led policy for many years. Instead of our government being the rules of development programmes for the economy and society, the money from privatisation and loans has been spent. We'd find ourselves in a crisis if there wasn't a global crisis. Since 2000, we have sold factories that have been built by our citizens for decades and spent money without investing in new production and employment. We've spent our past and spent our future, our great debt to the citizens and to the economy. Instead of a better life, the government hopes today that we will not live worse than this year. With a government like this that doesn't function as a team, which is a big problem for this government, we won't keep a low standard of citizens. Citizens must be told that this is only the beginning of the crisis in the economy and society, and to what extent this crisis will affect our society and what consequences will depend on the ability or incompetence of this government. The SNS believes Serbia deserves a better government than the current one. Instead of bringing Serbia back, Serbia needs an advanced government. Thank you. During this presentation, SRS MPs banged on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10877	Thank you. The word is Miss Marina Ragush, SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10878	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are trying to understand the issue of all issues in the country of Serbia from the end of 2008 and we are trying to understand what kind of future is being prepared for the entire Serbian people. Conciseness works, and time works, we will try to paint in several images everything that happened this year, and it definitely affected the calling of May elections, the destruction of the opposition, the signing of the SAA and the defacto recognition of the independence of KIM, the implementation of Eulex in the entire KIM territory, and finally very likely to apply Ischinger's plan to divide KIM. Why are we talking about KIM all this time, getting answers from Tadic's government through a media campaign in Serbia making a media war? We're talking because we definitely know that this story that happens with KiM is not the end, but the beginning of what the US and Brussels administration have prepared for the Serbian people. So, the next question is the Vojvodina, followed by the Raška area and finally we will experience what Mr. Tudjman long ago opposed the Serbs and well nailed into the eardrums, and it is - Serbia will be reduced to Belgrade's pasture. It's the truth that's happening. Because of the mention of the Karlobag border, Ogulin, Karlovac, Virovitica from the ranks of the ruling coalition, ladies and gentlemen MPs, this is the ideological basis of the SRS, as you can see, along with representatives of diplomatic missions that organize Serbian state policy on beautiful grasslands, you have failed to kill the SRS. It will step up with peaceful, diplomatic, political means, with the excellent support of the great Russia, to implement the concept of the liberation of the enslaved and ethnically cleansed Serbian people. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you are now in that position and position where the SRS was on the eve of the "merciful angel." There are colleagues from the SPS who can also pass on the plastic atmosphere to you in those days. The bottom line Mr. Jeremic, the red line below which it will not go, mentioned today, also to us on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has been moved. We asked him - Mr. Jeremic, what will happen when the leaders of the EU countries continue with the pressures and force you and de jure to recognise the independence of KIM, then what will happen and what will get you, as you claim to be, keeping the Constitution, respecting Resolution 1244, when the great international community, led by a frenzied policy of enslavement of the American administration, is going to demand that? Your "no" will mean like our "no" in '99. For our "no", in terms of self-preservation of state prerogatives, we have received intervention, meaning aggression, bombing of an innocent people for three months, just because we have fought the Ship's terrorists, ladies and gentlemen. This is because, not only does the SRS claim it, but because these days you have also received an argument in your own hands, because it was confirmed by Mrs. Helen rantal in her autobiographical book, and time will show that many who participated in the joint criminal enterprise of enslavement and extermination of the Serbian people will begin and will continue to ease their conscience in this way. The truth will come out, so that truth will change the pages of national Serbian history forever. So, she said she was under severe pressure from Mr. Walker, who was also known in the Medlin Albright administration as a man behind whose authority was smuggling weapons to contrasts, that thanks to his pressure she forged a forensic report. Remember, to remind you, Racak was the cause of aggression on the SRJ. After that aggression, the Shiparis received a country based solely on terrorism and crime. It's not just the SRS, not the DSS, not the NSS, it's the BND now. On the international stage, in certain parliaments, in the territory of a civilized EU rages a real intelligence war. So, the GNI made a secret report that definitely proves the connection between Hashim Thaci, Ramush Haradinaj with arms trade, with the biggest heroin trade, and of course they gave the foreordain to pose the most serious threat not only to this part of the world, because they were in line with certain circles in Brussels and Washington, but to Europe as a whole, expressing regret that so many years the Germans have literally invested in the independence of the KIM terrorist state. Ladies and gentlemen, these are irrefutable facts that have not come out of the opposition's political and ideological agendas, which has finally initiated a debate on the Eulexa topic, which is actually just a motive to talk about what is beneath the radar, what is actually happening on the Serbian political scene and what is the state of Serbia where we all survive. In return, of course, we received a well-funded EU campaign through the speeches of many ministers, vice-presidents, NGOs, which essentially means nothing. Standards before status are an illusion, an idea that some generations, most likely grandchildren, should actually call and summon, conditionally speaking, the life of a decent man. But what kind of man he'll be, in which country he'll live, and what standard he'll have, no one can say. Also, no one can defend the next argument. Eight years since the five-October coup, therefore, the ruling coalition has had all the leverage available to reform the system, put Serbia on the white Schengen list, that children here remain hoping to live and work on the funds at certain jobs. None of it was. In fact, only levers of power have been taken over because of personal wealth and what's happening to us today, which is next. So what's at work here in the state of Serbia, and that should be known, we're going to keep trying to argue, is a classic school example of the occupation of one force that's become nervous because the other force has finally become strong enough to say by war on the Caucasus -- this is the end, this is the lower limit below which you won't be able to do. It is also the beginning of a whole new policy within the great international community. However, in order not to make this story sound casual and not to have epic noises, the SRS has, as always, been doing some research, followed by official websites from US official institutions, also followed a Security Council meeting. Here we will try to give you certain facts, even without the illusion that the ruling majority can convince you of anything different, you chose the path and it is legitimate your way, you have authority, you own it to do so. You're responsible for the policy you've taken to lead, and there's nothing controversial about it. But what we've been trying to do all day today, we say this is our political stance, we don't think that's right, and time and court history will show, ladies and gentlemen, who was right and who rightly understood the historical responsibility. So, first of all, Serbian citizens, who are trying to understand what's going on in the state of Serbia, I think they understood that part of the population we're trying to address these days and these months through parliamentary work. In mid-2008, what is public – because the public in Serbia, unfortunately, has been denied for many information – simply missed, is information, i.e. A report from the Congress Research Centre, which includes, among other things, ladies and gentlemen, those who are of the profession trying to prepare something that should be called the plan of activity of the Washington administration. Among other things, you have the opportunity to read how the international process of creating KIM independence has been going. There you can also find out how, in fact, very consistently, in continuity, without interruption, the Washington administration, which instilled a truly multimillion-dollar number of KIM independence, has been committed to fully destroying the state sovereignty and integrity of the Serbian state. Well, among other things, what they say and greet with this report is February 17th, 2008. the year when the Kosovo Assembly adopted the Declaration of Independence, with full co-operation and with recommendations from special rapporteur Martti Ahtisaari. After that, she took the adoption of several laws that are fully in co-operation with Ahtisaari's plan. Then, Thaci's government also presented an agenda based on which the newly founded Cypriot terrorist state, i.e. an independent KiM, should work. What is very important to know, without any doubt, is that the Washington administration, it stands on page 26 of this report, in fact, to support the independence of KIM and implementation of the Ahtisaari plan, by helping them with Mission Eulex, which will be precedentd on this part of the territory, of course, with NATO's all-out support and economic assistance from the United States. What is also very important is the topic on which we have repeatedly tried to distract the public, which is the 6.025th Security Council meeting, where all countries have had the opportunity to participate in something called merely a confirmation of the factual situation on the ground or is known as Ban Ki Moon's report. For example, there will be opportunities to read Croatia's position, which participates in Mission Eulex, which also welcomes KIM's independence and will also make efforts to strengthen Kosovo institutions. What is also very important is that China and Russia have sided with the Security Council's legal-political framework and Resolution 1244. However, we finally come to the part that has not been announced in the Serbian public, which concerns the presidential statement, which we do not know whether or not the chairman was asked by the SB members, and thus has been given the authority to issue the following statement, which does not mention Mission Eulex, but supports the EU's efforts. So, among other things, what is here and writes on the stenograms of this meeting: The Security Council welcomes the UN Secretary-General's report, submitted on 24 November 2008, and also welcomes co-operation between the UN and other international factors under Resolution 1244 of 1999. It also welcomes the EU's continued efforts to improve the European perspective of the entire Western Balkans. This statement will be published as a Security Council document, under heading 2008/44. This is how the Security Council has concluded the current configuration of this issue. It's all about the president's statement. Based on this presidential statement and on the UN Secretary-General's report, which is nothing more than the adjudication of Resolution 1244, the position of the Serbian public, the Serbian Constitution, Serbian sovereignty, territorial integrity on the side, and we now have a complete occupation in the KIM territory, i.e. the rampage of the Washington administration, with the appointment of the Serbian government and the Serbian president. That's all. So this is a public document on the UN Security Council website in English, which everyone can access, but the Serbian public obviously can't be familiar with by the media about this, because it would really upset her, but it can listen to it this way. This is not the end, ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens, this is just the beginning. What has also missed the public, and that is our concrete proposal, that our position is not fully understood as a populist and populist criticism of the ruling majority, which is a job somewhere in the opposition, of course, criticism, not a populist, here is a concrete solution: 28 August this year the topic was war on the Caucasus. The Security Council meeting, the stenograms of that meeting also exist on the Security Council website. I'll tell you exactly what meeting this is. It's the 5th,69th meeting. At that time, the US representative found that the Russian delegation's lecture was that the war on the Caucasus was an inadmissible mechanism to deal with relations on the international agenda. So the use of force is inadmissible. What was then recommended by the Americans to the Russians is the respect of Chapter 7. UN Command. At that point, Mr. Churkin said, "We were probably visited by aliens. Where, gentlemen of the United States, were you when we talked about KIM, when we talked about illegal aggression, when we called for the respect of Chapter 7. "U.N. Charter, where were you, gentlemen of Washington, or is this about double standards?" This is a method, you've introduced it into international politics, and it's a method that forces can follow. What the SRS can say from this place is, in our opinion, the only solution is, along that line that now appears on the international scene, which only the small one can help us restore sovereignty and territorial integrity, which is the help of the Russian Federation. Because the Russian Federation, as soon as the people of Serbia will have to understand, unfortunately, in the most difficult way possible, because the lower border has been crossed long ago, is that elections for the status of Serbs in Serbia, as appropriated by every country and state in the territory of Europe, will follow the modality and plan of the Russian Federation's activities. Gentlemen of the ruling majority, you will, I believe, be surprised very soon how, in fact, the way the Russian Federation has designed for the next few years, in which way European security and co-operation will look and how issues can be solved. Finally, let me conclude, we are not looking forward to this situation where we all found ourselves. We have felt this experiment of 'in vivo' of the international community on our skin. Do not succumb to the manipulations of lobbyists, for which this people mean nothing, because these lobbyists should first draw attention to 500,000 exiled Serbs from RSK, 280,000 displaced Serbs from the KIM territory and then perhaps the people in Serbia believe that the EU, which imposed sanctions on him, which has committed aggression on innocent people, has good intentions. In the overall spectrum of countries, within a large family called the international community, ladies and gentlemen, just remember which countries did not bomb us, which the country showed, regardless of what both Jelicin and Western oligarchs were operating, good intentions. On our part, you will always have support when national and state interests are at the top of political issues, but in a way that preserves both territorial integrity and sovereignty. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, what should be the reason for all of us is that here we are not doing ourselves for the well-paid lobby campaigns they are having, too, the pi-ar agencies here, but because of those who are coming. As we are these days enrolled in the stenograms of the work of this congregation, this will be the basis for those who come after us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10879	Thank you. The word is by Dr Zoran Masic, MP group Advanced Serbia. Your MP's group, Mr. Maski, has 14 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10880	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will begin my presentation on the government's impeachment proposal to begin with what Mr Cvetkovic is, when this government has been elected to the National Assembly, in the final part of his exposé, to the MPs and also to the citizens of Serbia. We will certainly discuss what is of it, during this period, realized and what are the realities of the realization of programming tasks in some future period. In his exposé, Mr Cvetkovic said: "The project of my government that I have exhibited is actually a project of a better life, with the preservation of the speciality and dignity of all citizens living in Serbia. Its realisation will provide greater profits, bigger pensions, greater social responsibility, greater employment opportunities, less corruption, builds basic infrastructure and achieves a stronger position of the country to defend its sovereignty." What's basically, of what's in the final part of this exposé, during this period, realized? If we do an analysis of what was given as a finding of higher earnings, the 2009 Economic Policy Memorandum states that the real growth rate for 2008 was estimated at 5%. The same rate in 2007 was 19.5%. How realistically increased earnings are this year, especially if I say the estimated rate of real profit growth in 2009 is only 4%? Then our citizens, people who work, can see what awaits them in 2009 and what profits they can expect. Furthermore, if we do an analysis of larger pensions, they are for the happiness of pensioners increased in October by 10%. This increase will be maintained over the next year or so. So, real pension growth cannot be expected by our pensioners during 2009, unless some real circumstances change in finance and our country, and certainly globally. But something that is of the impact of global politics, of course, as normal people and citizens, we must accept. What's unreal government planning, that's certainly for criticism. For criticism, it is certainly a finding of greater employment during this year. I have not been able to look at this real data from this memo, but it is certain that what has been published in the media during these past months, for a month and a half, that more than 10,000 workers have been fired or sent to an emergency holiday in our country, which certainly cannot be good and cannot be an indicator of good employment in our country. Furthermore, through its programme, the government planned to grow gross social product by about 7% over the coming years, so at the end of the term, it was estimated to be 30%. Certainly, under the influence of global economic change, GDP growth at only 3% is planned for 2009. But what I'm saying next, just in this gross social product, our agricultural production is a significant part, it's estimated somewhere between 10% and 15%, if we take the food industry, it's 20 percent more. Madam President, can you at least ring a bell to warn Mr. Radical that they are not acting this inappropriately and that they physically do not interfere with every SNS MP. At least try ringing the bell to warn them, if nothing else. I think this is extremely inappropriate visual, first of all, of the citizens of our country who are still following this prenuplian time of this assembly. If we take that the participation of agricultural production in the gross social product... Laugh, laugh, you will have when and grieve, you will not be able to unfocus me, so your attempts are in vain, it only speaks of you, not of me and us who belong to this stranger. It is unacceptable for the government to use the 2009 draft budget to drastically reduce the agrarian budget. So it reduced what makes it a significant part of the incentives for agricultural production and which should have helped and achieved greater production and increased competitiveness of our agricultural production. We in SNS absolutely support a reduction in public spending. It should be realised, however, that you who are in the government first of all by personal example should give you care about reducing public spending. This, above all, would mean amending the Government Act, reducing the number of ministries, reducing the number of administrations from the top down. However, as far as you can see and notice, you have no intention of doing so. You're reducing where it shouldn't be reduced, so for certain economic areas, and again I underline, let's say, for the area of agricultural production of the 2009 budget will be lower by a billion and a half from the budget that was in 2008. If taken as a budget rebalance, from two months ago, the agrarian budget increased to 33 billion, then the drop in the agrarian budget in 2009 by about 7.5 billion dinars. Mr. Ministers and you, Mr. Prime Minister, I think you should have had a lot more hearing and a much more realistic assessment of where to invest in 2009, where to reduce. I think agriculture is the least economic area that deserves that reduction. This will also be the reason for your criticism during the next year, from the moment of budget adoption, so during 2009, because I think citizens have a good memory and what DS promised in the pre-election campaign, that the agrarian budget will be at least 400m euros, unfortunately, you have not already achieved that in the first budget that you form as a Government, where it is the institution of the DS. This will have a negative otter to the Ministry of Agriculture, although it may least deserve to receive that criticism, because I know it reliably seemed an effort to provide more resources, especially in certain moves, particularly in the part of the legislation. They have made an effort to get some seven laws into the process and that most likely during the following year, early on, these laws will be passed. The ministry has made some other moves, so for this kind of agrarian budget that we are asked to consider the most responsible Prime Minister, then the finance minister, then possibly the Minister of Agriculture and other ministers. What I also want to comment on, and what I also find irresponsible to the government, is insufficient concern about scientific research in our country, because there is no progress in the economy if we do not have much more investment in scientific research, as well as in education or in educational and scientific institutions, such as universities, but also other educational institutions. A country that singles out only 0.3% of the scientific research budget can't be prosperous and that it can expect some significant economic growth. With such separation in science, we can only expect that young, educated, smart people will continue to go abroad to school and the largest number of them and stay there, so that we permanently impoverish our potentials in the field of research. Mr. Djelic, you're a man who's always known how to provide funds, and you've been Minister of Finance. Honestly, I was hoping that as Minister of Science you would do more to make the 2009 budget and the field of research increase. I think you'll agree that he's insufficient and that he's the result of a compromise that had to be made, but you need to publicly tell people who do science, because you know that the largest number of research institutions are currently living and supporting themselves from the resources they receive through the projects. It's a means of profit, both for material expenses and for equipment. Even this year, and especially next year, there will be no means to obtain modern research equipment, to improve scientific research, and thus we poverty, as the state has no potential for new productions, new technologies, so responsibility is on you. You had to find a way to secure those funds. Some other ministries have received some funds that, realistically, this state shouldn't have singled out. There will certainly come a quick debate on the budget and there will be opportunities to hear these criticisms precisely at certain budget projections. What I wanted in this time that was at my disposal, with all this harassment being done to me here by the MPs of the SRS Group, I think I could pass on to our public, our citizens, what you are responsible for and why you need to be resolved. And certainly on those who have applied for a discharge is to provide that. We, even though we didn't sign it, will vote to resolve this government. Thank you. During this speech, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10881	The word has the People's Messenger Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10882	Dear Members of Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, the sins of today's government are numerous, but I will hardly be able to count them all for lack of time. First, I point out the government's irresponsibility towards the Assembly and the MPs. In fact, parliamentary issues in a good number of cases remain without the government's answer. On several occasions, I have asked the issue of a lawsuit against Croatia for the crimes of genocide against the Serb people during the 20th century. The MIP pledged to launch a lawsuit against Croatia, but only for crimes committed during the 1995 Storm. The MIP, therefore, restricted the crimes only to this last war, arguing that it could not press charges against Croatia for genocide crimes since 1941, because the Convention on Genocide was adopted only in 1948. According to that logic, then the 1945 Nuremberg Process is completely illegal because it was conducted before the resolution was adopted. I asked the government and the parliamentary question of starting a peace conference with Croatia in order to resolve the issue of the border bar in the Srem-Brac-Slavon section, which were as administrative violently withdrawn in 1945. Then, the issue of the Yugoslav Adriatic succession or the question of any Serbian exit to the sea. Regarding the issue of the borders of the former administrative socialist republics, Slovenia must be a model, which requires the expansion of its sea belt, as well as the correction of borders in the land area. The public is well-known that even the Gilas Commission in 1945 awarded Vukovar and Ilock to Serbia, but they were still assigned to Broz's intervention at the end of Croatia. I propose to the Assembly that at least bring a resolution on the condemnation of the genocide committed by Croatia during the 20th century against the Serb people, primarily because of the defence of the truth about the deaths of the Serb people. The next government's sin on which I would draw attention is to impose an irrational agenda on the Assembly, impose the adoption of successive legislative proposals, but also to impose important legislative proposals in the weather, such as a poor set of law on the judiciary, which was only due to take place in January 2010, if it is voted at all. For days we talked about the bad laws on the regulation of courts and the particularly disastrous law on the network of courts of the Republic of Serbia. Suddenly, a draft law on associations was withdrawn from the assembly procedure, which is a very important law because it would regulate the aggressive work of NGOs. The government's sin is the illegal introduction of Eulex to Cosmet without the knowledge and approval of the Assembly. In doing so, the government also violated the provisions of numerous Assembly resolutions on Cosmet. In the previous assembly, I spoke of historical facts related to the problem of kidnapping Cosmet through history. I said it was important to keep the deed or the state's property to Cosmet, with the internal redistribution of the territory. Since the Serb population has been removed through history by violence from the Comet, religious verification, anti-Serbian political decisions, genocide, etocide, the immigration of citizens of Albania, culture, it must return to non-violent methods, in order to at least establish an ethnic state before 1941. As a minimum, Serbs must receive at least two of their national regional centres, Kosovo Mitrovica, as the centre of gathering of northern Kosovo Serbs, and Pec, as the people's centre of the Serbian Metohija, with guaranteed international protection of the Serb population and Serb cultural monuments in the rest of the area of Cosmeta. I'm asking the government, in the end, is she thinking about these options? My proposal remains within the framework of international law, especially historical law, because it protects Serbia's integrity and national integrity. And two peoples who have bled so much through the history of imperialists, globalists and religious national experiments will remain separated in their national regions, but most importantly all within Serbia's state borders. This government, as well as previous governments since 1990, has had to keep more accounts on the historical context of events and historical arguments and repeated repetitions pointing to the essence of the problem, simply to fight for the truth. It is clear to all today that the violent unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence from anti-Serbian Liberal-Democratic countries is the realization of the NATO alliance's war goals, headed by the United States, from 1999. The plan has already been set up recently by English geopolitical analysts and their cartographers, from publicist Siton Watson, Lord Rotemira, to cartographers from the mid-80s, who had already seen in their dreams a demonized and broken Yugoslavia. For example, the semi-official English newspaper "Newsvik" in 1990 published a map of the broken Yugoslavia, where Cosmet was presented as an independent state, or republic. The controversy between historians and publicists over the issue of Kosovo and Metohija's surrender to Albania in 1944-1945 erupted in the late 1980s and early 1990s. For many years, taboo topics in Brozo's Yugoslavia, the Kosovo-metohic issue has become more and more a stumbling block between historians favoring the official pro-Albanian state-level attitude and those who thought that they must finally be talked about also untouchable dogmatised historical topics. Broz, for example, worked alongside the British in 1944 to surrender to Albania. Serbian President Milosevic tried to eliminate only a part of Broz's state-lawful injustices committed against the Serb people, but was not consistent because of his inconsistent national policy, because of his spiritual communist-socialist heritage. There have been more attempts to eliminate the negative legacy of Broz's state-run legacy, executed by the Serb people, from the minds of the Serb people, but such attempts have been vigorously suppressed by global controllers of human conscience and spirituality. Cosmet is only one in a series of Serbian countries taken from Serbs by the will of Western tailors of new anti-Serbian borders. The eighth year is the rule of pro-Western political parties, i.e. the Social Democratic and Liberal Democratic Exponents, according to the globalist model of breaking all traditional, national Serb. Despite such government, however, Serbs remain the bad guys, the remethylative factor of united Europe. As the Serbian government today raises a legitimate issue of preserving the international order by pushing for the inviolability of internationally recognised borders, calling for the legal provisions of the United Nations to resolution 1244, it does not, on the other hand, accuse the violent order of the United Nations, which broke one internationally recognised country of the SFRY. The Serbian government does not remind itself of a crime against the internationally protected state of Republika Srpska, which was created by the legitimate self-determination of the people in the administrative Republic of Croatia. Serbs must be corrected by historic, state-level and national injustices. For historical truth, every Serbian government should fight. In fact, a total review of mythological history that has been imposed on generations of communist schoolmates, i.e. the socialist Yugoslavia and the revised history should be presented to international factors, e.g. related to the Illyrian name, Serbian spaces, the consequences of anti-Serbian Broz policy through British action. The national notion of Ilir eventually had to stand out as one of the Serbs' names, only for Serbs, after historical analysis. A completely different retrospective of the old Serbia's geopolitical space will be obtained after a history review, a picture of the old Serbia's ethnographic map of space, southern Serbia, and Macedonia will be changed. At least demand the establishment of a geopolitical and ethnographic state since 6 April 1941. The move of Albanian families that have fallen into old Serbia through the occupation authorities should be required. It is about 60,000 Albanian citizens that anti-Serbian Broz authorities have not returned to Albania. As they gradually multiplied in the prosperous Broz Yugoslavia, there are likely to be at least 250,000 descendants of these foreign Albanian citizens in Cosmet today. No Serbian government has since 1990 advocated a public historical conviction of the 1974 anti-Serbian Constitution, which created the confederal Yugoslavia, without democratic procedure, with the support of Serbian Broz communist listeners. It is therefore necessary to declare the futility of the 1974 constitutional provisions on the establishment of the republics of states and provinces of states as constituent elements of the Federation. The constitution was passed by anti-Serbian authorities without any democratic procedure, i.e. without the opinion of the Serb people, through legally legitimate Serbian people's representatives. The 1974 constitution was passed by the right force of the communist totalitarian regime, so the devastating state-level consequences of its fact for the Serb people must be erased. Although long gone, such a constitution must be tried by the Serb people for the rehabilitation of Serbian statehood, which has been completely destroyed by such a monster act. The Serbian state must implement the rehabilitation of the Serbian people and the state prior to history. The constitution has produced worse consequences for the Serbian people than the genocide policy of the occupier of Yugoslavia in 1941 - 1945, which was still a temporary character, and the Constitution has produced lasting devastating consequences. I ask the question of the former negotiating team for Kosovo and Metohija and Minister Vuk Jeremic -- to what extent have historic Serbian arguments been used during the negotiations regarding the Cosmeta case? It seems to me that there was little mention of the Serbian historical right to its Serbian territories. The historical right of a nation must never go out of date, as well as the right to genocide. It should be stressed that Serbia's historic spread, using ideological and religious political forces, is reduced to the area of the Serbia border, to the Drin and Danube borders and to the south to the Macedonian, or borders of the former southern Serbia. Serbs should simply point out the example of the Jewish nation’s struggle, which had its traditional epic story on ancient Judah, Israel, thousands of years old, realized in 1948 by creating a state of Israel in Palestinian territory. Thus, by calling on their ancient historical right, at least 3,000 years old, the Jews succeeded with the help of Britain, but also the United States, creating a state in the middle of the Arab world. So, as a traditionalist and nationalist, I refer to the example and religious-national tradition of the Jewish people. Serbs don't have to go so far in the past when emphasising their historical rights. Kosovo and Metohija are located in the centre of the old state of Nemnjic, where only Serbs and some displaced German miners, Sasa, lived as a people at the time. The Serbian ethnic structure has permanently disrupted Turkish conquests of Serb lands from Macedonia, Kosovo, Raska, later Bosnia and Herzegovina, Srem and Slavonia. I will only remind Serbian citizens of how far Serbian ethical boundaries have reached in the mid-19th century. According to Austrian statistical documents, the data -- I point out that the western Serbian borders symbolically went to the territory of northern Istria, Serbia's Moravica, Žumberak, then to Croatia's Zagorje. In the south, the western border passed below the Char Mountain, where the Serb people interfered with Bulgarians, Cinars, Turks and Greeks. I know that certain parliamentarians sitting in the Serbian parliament will immediately call me a great-serb nationalist, which in their translation means fascist. In the end, I ask the question -- why is it that, at least in some assembly resolution, liberal-democrat warmakers on the premises of internationally recognised SFRY countries do not call and remind themselves of all the injustices and crimes they have committed to the Serb people? Cosmet is only one in a number of Serbian countries that has been taken from Serbs, with the will of Western tailors of new anti-Serbian borders, through which today's violent state-owned structures have been created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10883	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, followed by MP Filip Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10884	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS believes the current government of Serbia, from the point of view of Serbia's state and national interests and of the Serb people, is a protracted government, primarily because the government itself does not respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. The government is responsible that the opposite of the international law on KiM is installed so-called. EU rule of law mission Eulex. I'm sorry Minister Jeremic isn't present in this room. What he said today, that the UN SB provided a legal basis for disseminating this mission to KIM, is simply not true. In his presidential statement, the SB only expressed its desire to continue dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina and welcomed the EU's efforts to integrate the Western Balkans into the international organisation. In the presidential statement, there is not a single word about the Eulex mission, in particular there is no saying that the Eulex mission should replace the UN mission, Unmik, established by Resolution 1244. For the speaker, some MPs of the ruling parties tried to pull the parallel between certain opposition leaders and the Cypriot terrorist leaders at KIM, both reportedly against the EULEX mission to KIM, and the conclusion is that the Eulexa mission is in the interest of the Serbian state. I hope it is not unknown to Serbian citizens that Albanians at KIM staged a farce that they are against the Eulex mission and that they oppose the arrival of EULEX at KIM. That it was a farce, Mr. Ministers and Mr. Cvetkovic, testified and Law No. 03-033 on the status, immunity and privileges of diplomatic and consular missions in Kosovo and the presence of international military forces and their staff. It's about a law adopted by the so-called “So-called Parliament. ” The Republic of Kosovo on 20 February 2008. This law has a total of 12 members. Before the Eulexa mission to KIM arrived, the Shiptari created a legal basis for the arrival of the mission. So, not that they're not against Eulex at KIM, they've made it possible by this law that the Eulex mission, from the point of view of so-called. The Constitution of the Republic of Kosovo, be legal. That this is the case, according to Article 3(2) of this Act, which says that the diplomatic or consular status at KIM, among other things, has international civilian representatives and EU special representatives, as well as the EU's rule of law mission (Euleks). The minister of foreign affairs of the Republic of Kosovo cannot declare an undesirable face to be an international civilian representative, EU special representatives, or any member of their staff, as well as members of the Eulex mission. Finally, the law is said to enter into force 15 days after its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Kosovo, it was adopted in the Assembly of the Republic of Kosovo on 20 February 2008. Therefore, gentlemen and MPs from the ruling coalition, you who claim that the leaders of the national opposition in the Serbian parliament are thinking the same way that Hashim Thaci, Haradinaj, Bajram Rexhepi, etc., this law proves to you that you are wrong. The Albanians are absolutely for the Eulex mission, and you are responsible for allowing the presidential statement to be adopted, because you claim that the KIM EULEX mission should be status neutral. In this dirty game, you tried to involve the Russian Federation, so to speak -- here's the SB, in which Russia was a permanent member and allowed the Eulexa mission to come to KIM, although the Russians repeatedly told you they couldn't be more Serbs than the Serbs themselves. Mr. Jeremic said the government allegedly has the legitimacy to lead such a policy towards KIM because this government has received support for such a policy in the May 11th elections. Mr. Cvetkovic, your government is based on the citizens' election scam. The election fraud occurred by the DS and SPS leaders in the election campaign claiming that they would never join the coalition with each other. Boris Tadic said he could not make a government with the forces of the former regime, with forces from the dark 1990s that, according to him, led Serbia into the biggest disaster and disaster. The SPS claimed it would never make a government with a party that handed their late president over to The Hague tribunal, so in March in The Hague, enemies of the Serb people killed him in 2006. But the desire for authority has united you, so Boris Tadic has deceived DS voters, and Ivica Dacic has deceived SPS voters. Minister Vuk Jeremic boasted here and MPs of the ruling coalition boasted, and today boasted, freneticly applauded, which Serbia allegedly had won some diplomatic triumph in the UN General Assembly, by adopting our proposal that the International Court would justify its advisory opinion on whether the declaration of independence was so-called. The Republic of Kosovo was in accordance with international law. It's another Serbian people scam. In diplomatic circles, Mr Cvetkovic, it is already a public secret of what decision the International Court of Justice will make. That decision will have two wholes, two elements. First, it will be said -- in principle it is not allowed from the point of view of the UN Charter, but that second element will read like this -- respecting the fact that Kosovo is a specific case in international politics and international relations, given the fact that KIM is the problem of "sui genericis" international law, the Cypriots at KIM had the right to declare independence in February 2008. Then that decision by the International Court of Justice will serve as an exit strategy from the KIM problem. Then you will go to the Serbian public and you will say -- dear citizens, we have tried everything, we have used all the legal mechanisms that Minister Jeremic spoke of, too, but what you will, is that even the International Court of Justice said that the Shipari were right, we have nowhere to go, we have to recognise the independence of KIM. I reminded you, Mr Cvetkovic, even though you weren't there, there were MPs from your party, or from your ruling coalition, Minister Jeremic remembered that he should press charges against Croatia only when the Croats made it clear to him that he would continue to press charges against so-called Croatians. Serbia's genocide against Croatia. It is a shame for this government, it is a shame for you, Mr Cvetkovic, it is a shame for Vuk Jeremic that Serbia is represented before the International Court of Justice by a man who is an open agent of the CIA, a man who said -- in the event that Serbia presses charges against Croatia, he will not represent the suit because he is a Croatian state arbitration officer. Then a man would be in conflict of interest, imagine Tibor Varadi representing Serbia against Croatia, and he is in fact serving a new independent state of Croatia. This government is also responsible for creating a new state, an independent state of Vojvodina, with its blessing in northern Serbia. Those who talk about the Statute of the Autonomous Region, those who talk about how they work out constitutional provisions, in fact deceive Serbian citizens. The Federalisation of the Republic of Serbia is at work. The Serbian government has an obligation to protect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as it has the obligation to protect territorial integrity at KIM, so it also has an obligation to protect Serbia's territorial integrity when it comes to Vojvodina. Vojvodina cannot be a state in the country, having its own government, its own ministries, diplomatic representations abroad, to conclude and ratify international contracts. That, Mr. Cvetkovic, is the state. It is a shame for this government to create some new anti-Serbian form in the area where the best Serbs once lived. You laughed when Dr Vojislav Seselj claimed that the enemies of the Serb people would not stop at the destruction and occupation of Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. It's KiM's turn. In 2000, you claimed, only to win the DOS -- we will also solve the KIM issue with our EU and US friends, the issue of Montenegro, because it is a democratic issue. The former regime of Slobodan Milosevic was unable to speak to the West. We can. We guarantee you that we will solve this problem. You destroyed the SRJ, you destroyed the state union of Serbia and Montenegro. You have prevented the eternal dream of the Serbian people from going to the Adriatic Sea. This time, with your blessing, the kim separates. I don't understand at all where you get the right to claim that you're going to defend Kim. It would not have led you to power in the west of 2000, contrary to the Constitution of Serbia, if you had serious intention to defend Serbia and its territorial integrity. The government is tasked with completing the dirty work that began in 1991, which is to completely dismember Serbia's state space. In 1991, when the Hague Conference on Yugoslavia was held, Lord Carrington's plan had, among other things, two annexes. One referred to the Vojvodina. The other one referred to KIM. As far as KIM's concerned, unfortunately, it's now being realized. The Duke's script is about to begin. Therefore, Mr Cvetkovic, you and your ministers are responsible for allowing the repeat of the Kosovo scenario in Vojvodina. We could hear today from representatives of some parties who claim to be opposition, in fact, the Serbian government's auxiliary parties in this House, that Serbia has no sovereignty on KIM and that we should give up that part of our territory. I'm afraid, Mr. Cvetkovic, that what the party of Cedomir Jovanovic says, that you actually mean it, but you can't say it in public. It is a public secret that what Mrs. Vesna Pesic is saying actually means Sonja Licht, and that what Sonja Licht is saying and thinking, is that that's what Vuk Jeremic means, but he can't say it in public. KIM has been occupied since 1999. The occupation is always a fact, not a legal state. There used to be a so-called. The theory of obesity in international law, when one part of the territory is occupied, or when the whole state is occupied, that the state ceases to exist. That theory was rejected, Mr. Cvetkovic, by a regulation with the Fourth Hague Convention of 1907. Therefore, KIM is occupied, but every occupation comes and goes. You must not hide behind the theory that Serbia has no sovereignty on KIM and that this sovereignty should be permanently abandoned. What's the biggest mistake of this government? The SRS fully understands that you cannot change relations on the international political scene. You're not strong enough, and none of you are asking. What the enemies of Serbia are asking of you is that the official Serbia, the official Serbian government, does any act or action that will allow the creation of a legal basis for the separation of KIM from Serbia. And, unfortunately, this government gave this legal basis to both the EU and the United States, because your insistence on KIM is being installed so-called. the status neutral mission of the European Union, in fact, a mission to implement Marty Ahtisaari's plan. Not to mention that this is a government that does not respect the laws itself, that we are not talking about that this is a government that has broken the deadline for more than a month for proposing the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia and that despite all this, the same government is accusing the opposition that we are guilty of not yet being adopted. This is a government without a unity of concept, without unity of politics, without unity of the programme, and because this government does not rule the country's chances on both internal and foreign policy plans, this government should fall.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10885	The word is given by MP Filip Stojanovic. After him, MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10886	Dear People's MPs, honourable Prime Minister, respected ministers, Serbia has one of the worst governments in history, unprepared to face the seriousness of the political, economic and security situation in our country. Politically, the executive authority is illegally dominant over the legislative and judicial branch of the government. The Serbian government, whose real head is the president of the Republic, Boris Tadic, is sending threats to the assembly and judges. Subjects, such as Minister Sutanovac, are threatening MPs to suspend direct television transmissions of assembly sessions unless the opposition is more cooperative. Other ministers are ordering the highest representative body in the country to introduce an even more restrictive Rules of Procedure, through which bureaucrats, such as Mrs Comic, will be able to punish the MPs whenever and how they want them to. The fines of opposition MPs are no longer an option, but a rule in the National Assembly, and their implementation is every time the banal smiles on the faces of most opposition MPs. Let's see how the judges go in our country. The judges have an even worse fate than the MPs. The new law on judges has provided for re-election or lustration of judges. Who are you, gentlemen ministers, to blackmail judges with re-election, when the continuity of the judge's office is guaranteed by the Constitution? No, you say -- the Serbian government will create conditions to read which judges suit it, which do not, which judges listen to the orders of ministers and regimes of Boris Tadic, which they do not. Is that democracy for you? This is how you made judges of the Serbian government, who can be expelled from work for a moment. Are you ashamed of that, ladies and gentlemen of the Serbian government? Of course not. It is important for you to be praised by those who killed Serbian citizens in 1999. It is clear, therefore, that the Serbian government treats the country's legislative and judicial authority as its secretariat and thus violates the basic standards of our constitution. You are only interested in the EU, with its bureaucratic apparatus, and it seems to attract the euro to your greatest attention. You are famous Europeans, but with two horizontal lines. During that time, the people are sinking deeper and deeper into misery. The cost of life is increasing, and wages and pensions are increasing. After an increase in pensions of 10%, consumer baskets were collected by 50%; democratic and European, there is nothing. Let Serbian citizens pay attention to the following facts, we will compare the prices of certain foods in Germany and Serbia. Germany is a country where the standard is ten times higher than in Serbia. Prices are recalculated in dinars. So, in Germany, a liter of milk costs 63 dinars, and in Serbia, 73. In Germany, it costs 60 dinars and 115 dinars in Serbia. Soap of 23 dinars and 43 dinars in Serbia. 346 dinars in Germany, 453 dinars in Serbia. 194 dinars, in Serbia 210 dinars, are to be set aside for the 'niveu' shampoo in Germany. The 'fa' deodorant in Germany costs 77 dinars, while Serbian citizens single out 179 dinars for it. Here is the symbol of civilization that you Serbian Government serve. The coke in Germany costs 62 dinars, and we have 89 dinars. So in Germany, living supplies are at least 30% cheaper than Serbia, while wages in Germany are ten times higher. Finally, I want to draw citizens' attention to the Serbian government's attitude towards Kosovo and Metohija. Boris Tadic's regime according to Cobel's script accepted the Eulex mission. The EU mission is envisioned by Ahtisaari's plan, which according to Finca himself is the basis for Kosovo's controlled independence. You Serbian government deceive Serbian citizens that Eulex will not apply Ahtisaari's plan, but some other invisible operational plan, I wonder which. Serbia's Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, however, says the Eulex mission is being deployed on conditions clearly defined by Serbia. Where did Serbia define that? How when we MPs don't know. He also says that the Eulex mission to Cosmet will be strictly neutral. How neutral, when he implements Ahtisaari's plan.? Still our minister claims that Ahtisaari's plan was buried in the Security Council. Let him show me where it's buried. The Serbian government is calling for a UN Secretary Ban Ki Moon's statement, saying the mission from Unmika is moving on to the Eulex mission. This should bear in mind that the Unmik mission was not statusally neutral, but according to Resolution 1244 confirms Serbia's sovereignty. Eulex today has the same powers that he had according to Ahtisaari's plan. You're saying that Eulex will act in accordance with Resolution 1244. How when American soldiers and intelligence are in his system, whose bosses in Washington and Langley speak openly about EULEX being an independent Kosovo. What did the Serbian government actually do? You have brought the decision-making level down with the UN, where we are supported by 70% of the members in the General Assembly, and in the Security Council always Russia and China. You did this as if Thaci and Haradinaj had advised you. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia is not a state since yesterday and no one can play with its territory, and at least you can't play with it. You of the Serbian government are ready to execute every order of Brussels and Washington because they brought you to power. You are formally saying that you will never stop giving up Kosovo and Metohija for the EU, but you are making such moves that you are literally giving up 15% of our territory, our cradles. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, for all of this and especially because of the poverty of Serbian citizens under this government, as well as the denial of Boris Tadic's regime from Kosovo and Metohija, the SRS urges all MPs to declare their mistrust with this Serbian government before completing the work NATO started in 1999. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10887	The word has been given by MP Dragan Stevanovic, followed by MP Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10888	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I don't think you remember, but when you exposed your exposés to this assembly when your government was elected, I told you that that evening that Serbia was at the height of its political dissuasion. I told you that after that and such constructions in Serbia, nothing will be impossible anymore, and I told you for sure that your government will last until testifying leftist Mladjan Dinkic starts to get up on his right foot. I don't think either of my facts, or the findings of that evening, can you deny and disprove tonight, especially the fact that Mr Dinkic began to get up on his right leg. Of course, I'm convinced that all of this would be different if you had laid the foundation for this government in a different way, that this government was getting the foundations in a different way than the principles of haughtiness and insolence, political arrogance certainly. I think that today Mr Balint Pastor has spoken through one or two sentences about this political arrogance and haughtiness, and of course that's why you're going to last, and that's why you're going to end both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Executive Authority. Of course, I don't think that any of the problems that affect this country is more important than Kosovo and Metohija, but certainly from this pay phone, since we have a chance to see you tonight, you should objectively honor as Government some things, and perhaps ask for answers to some findings, some promises that you defined by your exposé six months ago. That's when you said you'd be socially responsible to the government. I would like to hear after six months of your government what it is that represents an expression of social responsibility in Serbia. What we see every day are tents on Andric's wreath, on the one hand, on the other hand, these are unresolved problems in Synthelon, in Bek, in the Robing Houses, in Trudnik and the fact that only today 130 households in The Tower have lost power. What is the government's social responsibility? How has the government been responding over the past six months to the economic challenges, Mr Cvetkovic, which have been objectively set before you? How did the government react, and what does the government do in relation to the course of the dinar? Say, is the course of the dinar the expression of the market, or is it synthetically or artificially defined? Maybe the state interventionism in either given or in a shorter period is desirable and good, in the long run, you certainly know that, state interventionism is nothing good, especially for the economy in the fallen economy as we do. How did you react to the economic crisis in the world, Mr. Cvetkovic? On the one hand, the people sitting next to you tonight assured us that the economic crisis in the world should be recognised as Serbia's development chance. A parallel to those statements came from completely dissonant tones from the National Bank of Serbia from the governors. You couldn't convince each other what was older, coke or egg. Then, Mr. Cvetkovic, after three months, was sent to the government for the adoption of a set, i.e. a package of laws that should, as you have explained, be prevented from providing banking, financial and monetary stability. These laws have not yet been passed, of course the opposition is being accused, and you should know and believe that you know that in the meantime about a billion euros has been withdrawn from banks in Serbia. How, Mr. Cvetkovic, did you react to the arrogant behavior of the government's deputies, in the blight of public spending? What is the situation today, Mr Cvetkovic, at the level of local self-government across Serbia? The situation at the level of local self-government across Serbia is an expression of the political arrogance that the Balint Pastor and some other people who belong to the assembly majority spoke of today. What is interesting from the economic point of view, perhaps you should tell us that, which is why and how the Republic of Serbia's budget was delayed, why did you break the budget calendar, which is why Serbia has not adopted the budget seven or eight days before the end of the year and in what atmosphere will it be adopted? Mr. Cvetkovic, when it comes to the economy, your government has defined a concept that represents the expression of a verse defined by the boasting individuals sitting with you and with you in government, namely in Germany 11. Of course, as far as Vojvodina is concerned, counterpart Martinovic mentioned it, the Statute represents one, to say, discreet attack on the constitutional order. The professional public and the public in Serbia dispute him and believes that there is no member of the Vojvodina statutes that you have sent into the procedure of this assembly, which, in terms of constitutionality, cannot be challenged. I sincerely hope that consent to such a statute will not provide for the majority of this congregation and that we will never accept it as a mistake here. Of course, what is the essence of this whole debate tonight and should be the backbone of the arguments about the challenge of credibility to this government is Kosovo and Metohija. As far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, I think tonight the peak of irony was when representatives of the government invited us to state unity, that is, when they wanted to express their willingness to agree or talk from this booth. As far as this state unity is concerned, how much government representatives are prepared for state unity have shown in the previous government, and the fact that their government has fallen apart because they weren't ready to provide unity within the ruling coalition, not within the state or within this parliament, it itself says how ready you were for unity. If you were ready for state unity, if you were expecting the support of this Parliament, I think you would really find the time and ways to put, if not otherwise, at least the resolution you sent to the government on the agenda. You didn't want to either, because you were in the capacity to provide disunity when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. Personally, I think your intention was to accept Mission Eulex in Kosovo and Metohija in the atmosphere of silence. What exactly did you want with that? This is what you wanted to transfer the authorities, i.e. the jurisdiction in Kosovo and Metohija, which was owned by the United Nations, to the EU. In the United Nations, 70% of the countries were not ready to accept Kosovo's independence, and on the other hand, the Security Council has always had the opportunity to veto the country's friends. You latently pulled it out of the UN's hands and gave it to the EU. You expect us to have confidence in the EU, in which dominant states supported KIM's independence and an independent KIM, also recognised. Support for such a policy cannot be expected from us, support for such a policy I believe you will not be able to win from the whole right. Why don't we trust you like the exponents of Brussels politics when it comes to KIM? Here are two sentences from the European Commission, which I believe is also a large and persistent critic of you and your authorities, as well as the opposition in Serbia. As far as human and minority rights are concerned, the European Commission has seen a deterioration in this area immediately after Kosovo's declaration of independence, particularly towards representatives of the Albanian national minority. When it comes to regional and good neighbourly co-operation and meeting international obligations, the European Commission says, "It is important that Serbia demonstrates a constructive attitude towards Kosovo's participation in regional initiatives." There's no trust in the concept you're stretching. This morning, a flag of the quasi state of Kosovo was established at the municipal court building in Strpc. Strpce municipality has 80% of Serbs. The Serbs sought, complained, addressed the authorities present in the Strpts. As Unmik retired, they addressed KFOR, which did not want to meet the Serb community. What's gonna happen and who's gonna react, we'll see. Unless anyone wants to react and remove elements of anti-state action and anti-state symbols in KIM territory, specifically in the municipality of Strpce, Serbs will, unfortunately, be forced to organise their own rights, in accordance with this constitution that we have all committed ourselves to, come true. Mr. Cvetkovic, tonight your government may survive, perhaps not, on Saturday already harder, but what's for sure, is it going to be in this year or next, the only argument you have on your side, which sounds pretty lame and sad, that's digit 126.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10889	Mr. Boris Aleksic is not here. Mr. Zoran Krasic. Here, you have 18.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10890	Of course, when it comes to a request for a vote of no confidence to the government of the Republic of Serbia, as a rule, it should begin to quote the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because it is hardly possible to explain more clearly the non-compliance or bad policy, unless a comparison is made with some constitutional norms. I can't quote the Constitution because I did it once, so I got a warning. This is the only parliament on the globe where MPs are not allowed to quote the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But what is important for today's topic? For today's topic, it is important that some stable majority guarantee survival at all costs, which means - that the government here is in some other composition and that it has the support of this majority, it would survive; that the Thaci government is sitting here, given this majority, it would survive again, because rational political thinking in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia begins and ends with a magical figure of 126. For probably 70-80 years football has been played in Serbia, and every year the league, and every year a club is a champion. In our history, one year the champion was "Awesome." When it is said that "Obilic" was the champion of Serbia, at the time SRJ in football, it immediately lures some associations, not that they played football well, not that someone was famous for football, but that they had a successful manager and boss, who provided first place in various ways. If there's talk of football, then as a constant, there's talk of "Star" and "Partizan". This will, about, be in history -- the government of the Republic of Serbia, the government that will share in history the fate of the "Employment". Look at the irony. Why the irony? The government of the Republic of Serbia, if it had done nothing, could not have done any damage. But they wanted to have this so-called so-called president of the Republic. Proactive policy. In that proactive policy they succeeded what even failed the Security Council. They were able to effectively devalue Resolution 1244. The only instrument guaranteeing us sovereignty in KIM territory is Resolution 1244. The longer we need to keep her in power, the longer she doesn't change, the longer she doesn't break for Yotu. What did our governments have to do? Just to ask for the implementation of Resolution 1244 and the Kumanovo Agreement, and nothing else. Because everything that comes out of the Security Council's framework is bad and, by some lawfulness, that bad means a direct violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, from preamble to even the last member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This is exactly what this government has done. KIM, the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, is a large and large issue on which not only the government must bear responsibility, but the government must ask the issue in the National Assembly. Since 1999, the question of KIM has always been raised in the National Assembly, in order to ensure that the majority for state policy is provided here, because it exceeds that provision of the Constitution that says - the government is leading internal and foreign policy. The issue of territorial integrity and sovereignty goes beyond that framework. For years, it has been a good practice to declare, through decisions, resolutions, declarations, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as a representative of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not only on current matters, but also on strategic matters. In one period, we even exceeded the authority of the National Assembly. You remember this is where the interview platform was formed. But when you have a president like this, we've had this situation this year that the Kim theme is forbidden here. It is left to -- to whom: Jeremic, Boris Tadic and this poor Bogdanovic, who, when you tell him -- the minister, he does not know whose government the minister is, whether the independent states of Kosovo or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I will not repeat what SRS MPs have done very nicely here by Elena Christmas-Talijan, Marina Ragus, Aleksandar Martinovic, to detail, the drying facts that cannot be challenged. Why? Read? But that's our reality. We've had this accident a long time ago that Boris Tadic is the president of the Republic. You remember that assembly resolution concerning elections for temporary authorities in KIM territory, a decision has been made here to recommend Serbs not to go to elections. He doesn't care, he caught that Oliver Ivanovic of his and invited him to the election. Remember what happened in February, the whole of Serbia is on its feet to protest Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence. Boris Tadic fled to Romania and organised riots. Look at the irony. There's a refugee at the U.S. Embassy with Kim. The scenario was repeated several months ago here during the arrest of Radovan Karadzic, but then a refugee from Republika Srpska was also killed. You took responsibility. You will answer to history, you will answer, remember, for this. No one forced you on Eulex, but you brought him in. Where's your Eulex interview platform? Is it found here? It's not. Who planted that platform on you? Who authorized you to talk about it? Why, if you are already thinking about territorial integrity and sovereignty, there is no one for human rights, including human rights, why did you not use the authority that exists in Article 182 paragraph 2: "The Republic of Serbia has an AP Vojvodina and an AP KIM. The essential autonomy of the AP KiM will be governed by a special law adopted under the procedure provided for for in the amendment of the Constitution." Why didn't you go to law school if you wanted active politics to define the essential autonomy of KIM here? They don't have to accept it, but it's our position, where we guarantee human rights and where we guarantee, who knows which way, territorial integrity and sovereignty. They don't have to accept it, but that's our attitude. We can't fight the force. But we don't have to be complicit in that. With your various locks on the subject, here's what your alleged partners say, friends. I'm also a witness to those sessions that were here on June 10, 1999. That's when Vuk Draskovic moved here, 1244 of the god given, the UN will keep Serbs on KIM. The same way you're defending yourself right now. How do you defend yourself? Ignorant. You're trying to make a simple forgery over the common facts. Can't you see there's a big difference between every statement you make and every one of your ideas and what your friends and partners from abroad are talking about? Here's what one says about your intrusion of Eulex: "The EU did not impose on us the Eulex, but on the government of Mirko Dr Cvetkovic. "Yes, they brought the Eulex. They also told Russia and China to stay calm in the Security Council. You all know the attitude of Russia - you in Serbia, agree in the National Assembly, give the paper what your position is, that's what we'll represent. But, no, they won't do it. Here's what they say -- it was necessary to preserve Resolution 1244, as a base for the Eulex mission. You're interpreting it as winking. Watch the next sentence. There's talk of the secretary general. He says -- he says the UN Secretary-General uses the word "new reality" because he cannot use the word "independence". We all know that the EU has declared and allowed KIM independence. We all know that EULEX is a mission that needs to ensure the attributes of an independent state of Kosovo. They have been preparing for years, studying the state administration in Croatia, in Slovenia on the cost of the EU. You brought Eulex. You needed Eulex to finish the dirty work you were paid for. However, you are no longer paid, now you are kidnapping yourselves, for there is no one to stand up to you. You always have 126; 126 wins and common sense; 126 changes history; 126 changes sound logic; 126 is a magic number, so someone can become beautiful thanks to the number 126, although it may be a mistake of nature. Let's see, since you're arguing about the price of gas these days, you're attacking ministers, here you are, you just need to read "Politicals," do you know this guy who's getting laid? Here's the one who's making fun of what he said. Asked if Serbia had received guarantees in negotiations with the Russian side that the South Stream as a highway pipeline would be built across its territory, see what this psychic, loves his mother, what he said -- we without financial and legal guarantees on the construction of the South Stream Master's pipeline cannot access the implementation of the whole arrangement. That is more than obvious because that is what the Serbian Parliament's decision ratifying the basic agreement reads. As you anger Mladjan Dinkic, he only does what Boris Tadic said, or what Boris Tadic should not say publicly. You know, he'd like one piece on two chairs. It is with this one part paved to catch two chairs, a reconciliation force, a force of reason that sells Kosovo. You sold KIM for your chair, and that's the word. How's the neutral mission? The mission came to ensure respect for the law? Why? Well, there are still these tribal differences, trafficking in white slaves, drugs, weapons. Look at the irony, this kid says, we'll unilaterally apply the agreement. And you know what that means? That all the benefits of the West can be paid for by the Eulex mission, so you, the citizens of Serbia, through this little one, will pay for the Eulex mission, just as you are paying for that readmission. Those who have money to travel want Europe, so when you take the money, they will pay back those under that agreement. This is a triple damage to Serbia. It's only a pity for Serbia here. There's no use here. Tell me, what's the use? I'm glad when the G17 thinks it's no use to Serbia from this government. This is probably the hardest betrayal Serbia could experience, and then you scare us with some Canka, with some draft statutes, as there is a greater evil. Let's forget about this alleged greater evil to rush this, no one will be angry, this is democratic -- 126 you will not provide for a vote of no confidence, and by that logic, this government remains and it has become extremely good. It's kind of like when a lunatic burns medical records, and he thinks he's cured. He healed himself because he was in the attic of a fire where there was documentation and that poor guy thinks he's alive, healthy, normal and can move on. Unfortunately, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in a state of severe depression, you are able to listen to everything and everything, as you will be better, as soon as honey and milk have not been passed, and this kind of can bring in honey and milk, these dukes who have 11.5 million in action, had nothing to eat with when they came a few years ago, and now three times a day shower, they go to the tanning plant, became a European man. It should be the Dick, the pride and the example of our children. Smile, but understand one thing, you as a government must fall tonight, regardless of these votes, in order to take advantage of the last chance if we can save what can be saved, to create discontinuity with this courtshipal, humiliating policy that you are leading and to prevent the destruction of Serbia, and you have dedicated yourself to this job. Just smile, and bigger beasts than you smiled and they capitulated. Remember one thing, all those who trusted the Americans in implementing politics in the Balkans or are either deceased or no longer involved in politics. You got into a dead end and you don't know how to get out of it. Resign, it's the last time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10891	Thank you. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10892	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I've listened to your presentation and those four points where KIM was in the first relationship with KIM, the second was a relationship with EULEX, and the interesting thing is that you repeated the second point, that's European integration, that's what you have to sort out because EULEX and European integration are one and the same, we can go to Europe, but via Eulex. You have stated that Eulex is one of the great diplomatic successes of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I want to ask you a question, as it has been said here many times, Mr Cvetkovic, about some of the six points that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed and I am giving you time these nine minutes to come out and tell you what six points it is. I guarantee you don't know what points this is, not that you're saying it's a diplomatic victory. On the other hand, you said, "We are an active factor, we co-operate with Serbs in KIM, we appreciate their needs and help them." You cited an example of the Kosovo Marine and the construction of a kindergarten. However, I also want to ask you why you didn't help local self-government at KIM, why is there no means to function local self-government? What does the letter by the Minister of KiM to local self-government mean that you cannot hire anyone, fire no one or transfer within the local self-government? For each post, the Minister for KIM's consent is required. There is no funds for the KIM Community Assembly. On many occasions we have spoken to you, but on all our efforts you remain deaf and silent. What I'd like to point out, Mr. Minister, while you were making a plan to hand over, give KIM away, the Serbian people organized themselves at KIM. After the elections that this assembly had set up, we created the KIM Community Assembly, where delegates from all 25 KIM municipalities that went to the May 11th 2008 elections. All representatives of political parties who went to the elections are in the Community Assembly. On many occasions we sent you a letter and a memo to receive us, to explain to us what the government is doing in Brussels and New York. You're deaf. In your performance, you say you don't negotiate with extremes. Are Serbs with kiM extremes for you that you don't want to talk to? In fact, they are, because if your position of the day is you want to talk to the extremes, and you didn't want to talk to representatives of the Serb people with KIM, it's a shame for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia that he does not want to receive representatives of the Serbs with KIM during the six-month period. On the other hand, we've organized a petition for Stop Eulex. That petition was signed by over 75,000 citizens at KIM. We sent you this petition, he doesn't know what you've done with it, and you've had many ways and many conditions to forward that petition to the United Nations Security Council above all, and to point out that KIM is not only inhabited by the Shipari in order to be given to them by the state, but by the living Serbian people, for whom you have to fight, and that Serbian people who don't want to live in an independent state of Kosovo, but rather want to live in the state of Serbia and act according to the laws that apply in the Republic of Serbia. What is also very important from the presentation of Vuk Jeremic, who has pointed out on several occasions - we have won, we have been given the right to form power and to create politics. That's exactly the biggest lie. You did win and you created a majority, but you didn't have a majority to make this plan. You tried, but you failed. If you had a majority, you would have brought a resolution that would have cost Mission Eulexa desirable to KIM, but you didn't have such a majority. You deceive and lie to the citizens of Serbia, especially the citizens of KIM. We have, he says, again most, the government by definition has a majority, so since you don't adopt a resolution in the Assembly because you don't have gentlemen of the majority, you do business all the time, and from law to law, you trade with the appropriate parliamentary groups to replace that quassiness, that 126 figure, which in this case will be broken down by the head of the Serb people at KIM. On the other hand, I'd like to ask Mr. Minister for Education. Mr. Minister, is it true that three days ago you made a decision to terminate the Faculty of Philosophy in Ranilugu? The minister won't listen, he's got a lot of work to do. Mr. Education Minister, I'm asking you for the third time is it true that three days ago you made a decision to terminate the Faculty of Philosophy in Ranilugu? Here, the minister says the Faculty of Philosophy will work in Ranilug and will not be abolished. But my parents complain that for 3rd and 4th years she should listen to classes in Kosovo Mitrovica. Well, then, we'll see if that's your promise. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on you to vote after this session on the mistrust of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to give you a chance to choose another government that will have a motherly, rather than a motherly relationship with the Serbian people at KIM. Mr. Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, it would be fair and correct that, after this diplomatic debacle of yours you have experienced, that you honorably and with dignity say that you are resigning, and hence the government of the Republic of Serbia would fall, and this shameful decision that has been made with your bias would fall, that you are giving way and route for the installation of an independent Kosovo, and thus the transfer of 130,000 Serbs to the mercy and mercy of the Shyptarian separatists and terrorists, as well as to prevent the return of 250 thousand Serbs who wish to return to their homes, to their own estates, their villages, their cities. You are making it impossible for these procedures to do everything you can to ban these remaining 130,000 Serbs from KIM. Here, now I suggest you repeat those six points. I argue responsibly that you do not know what six points are in the plan, allegedly, of the UN Secretary General, which went through the UN Security Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10893	Thank you. Since no one's answering anymore, Mr. President, would you like to speak to us? Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10894	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, at the end of the debate, as is appropriate, I would like to thank all the participants. I listened very carefully to most of the debate. I've recorded certain questions. I'll look back on some of them. What I want to say at the beginning is that it has already become clear in voting for this session that there is not a majority who is able to vote no confidence in this government, and now it seems to me, after the debate, that there were also arguments that could convince others that they really need to vote in that direction. In both cases, MPs helped. At the beginning in a way that gives the quorum, and during the debate, some of them also engage in asking the government questions about its activity. At first I gave three basic blocks, with the main idea of seeing within those blocks where the government started, where it came from, whether we're in a situation after five months better than we were before or not. The analysis, I think, with the exception of the first bloc on Kosovo, where there were many replicas on both sides and where the problem was pretty well lit, these other two blocks did not have much discussion. In that sense, I would look back and give answers to a number of questions, as I have noted, with several findings. First, when it comes to Eulex, there have been a lot of debates, there have been many and very detailed discussions on both sides, but it seems to me that of all these discussions one, in my opinion, is a very important and elemental fact. It was pointed out by a Radical MP who quoted the practical authorities in Kosovo as predicting the arrival of Eulex. So he showed that the decision that EULEX would come essentially was on its way to be made, with or without us. Here it was essentially a matter of strategy whether to stay away from the Iraqis - we disagree or be part of that process in a way that we can influence and remain active players, and in that context is this decision that we were talking about today. As for a series of really large different issues, which almost reminded me of the government issue, I would look to answer one number, with mostly budgetary issues not to mention, given that a detailed debate on the subject awaits us in the coming days. First, Mr Markicevic said his party's meeting with the government of the Republic of Serbia was cancelled. I have to say, it's probably some kind of misunderstanding. Namely, my crew waited and no one showed up. I want to confirm here that we're interested in this meeting, the other parties were, we're not making a difference, and I, through my services, will re-schedul a meeting to talk to the NS. This is all about misunderstanding. Secondly, you mentioned an external debt and I took, the NS printed a paper with a series of findings and questions, and I want to say, at random, I'm going to comment on five-six of them, that really they're written by some with misunderstandings, and some of the views are biased. For example, the first point of view says that the concession contract for the construction of the Horgos-Pozega highway has been annulled, which is not true at all. The government of the Republic of Serbia has not annulled any concession agreement, it remains waiting for 31 December this year, if a concessionaire shows up with valid paper to close the financing structure, the concession will normally be realised. If he doesn't show up, we'll act according to the contract. There's not a word about any undoing something that someone else has ended, and it's the opposite of the wishes of one side. He says, instead of raising wages and pensions, a decision has been made to freeze. I have to say, this isn't true either. From the moment of this government's formation to today, regular payments have been paid, pensions have been adjusted regularly, even an additional 10% correction has been made. If there's a future here, then it's a story that's about the budget and that we can talk about, whether or not what brings us the crisis, etc. But we're here talking about a period from forming a government to today. For example, Serbia's external debt is $30 billion, and the government constantly owes the country additional loans to the IMF and the World Bank under economically irrational conditions. Everyone in writing knows economically that the terms of the IMF and the World Bank are not economically irrational, but that's not what this is about. This is about mixing the term external debt and public debt. First of all, when you say public debt, it's the amount of what the state owes, and when you say external debt, then it's the amount that all entities, including private persons and private businesses, owe. So the government debt is not nearly 30 billion, but is about nine billion euros, even below nine. If the state is in debt, it increases these nine billion, and the difference between 9 billion and 20 billion euros is practically private, not government debt. He says -- despite pre-election promises from the ruling coalition that indices on the Belgrade Stock Exchange will rise, they are dropping. Imagine if someone took it and promised you that the indices would grow. The stock market, by definition, is one market and no one can tell you what's going to happen on that market in one direction or another. The gatherings, an inflation expected by the end of this year, according to official statistics will not exceed 8.5%. In 11 months this year, it's 7.9. Of course, we can say - the gas has grown this much, this has grown as much, but that logic doesn't have an objective criterion. The objective measure of average price growth is inflation, it's up 8.5, the gas is up 60%, the oil is cheap 60%, the average price per basket we have this year, we said it would be single-digit growth, we were lucky with liquid fuels, and it's not only single-digit, it's going to be less than 9%. There was a question about negotiations with the Russians, and a new negotiator was particularly apostrophe. It's also a thing that, based on what's exposed, shows that not enough information is available. First of all, no negotiators on the negotiating team have been replaced by other negotiators, especially the head of the negotiating team. It is not true that the lower-ranking foreign minister was replaced by the Deputy Prime Minister. The point is that the government appointed a negotiating team of 15 members, with an operational negotiating team led by Ciric, deputy vice president Dinkic. He was replaced by Borko Stefanovic, who is in the same rank, therefore the deputy, and by the highest rank in the remaining team that is negotiating, so there is nothing controversial or insinuating about anything. As for the relationship between the Constitutional Court and the arrangement, we intend to respect everything the Constitutional Court says, but the information we have is that the Constitutional Court has actually become a request to the Assembly that it be declared on the matter and we will act on how the Constitutional Court does when it makes the right decision, but for now we are going with this as we have begun. There were questions here, a large number of budgets for Vojvodina, etc., for Kosovo, what happened to the action plan. The Action Plan for Kosovo is a set of action plans for all ministries, and the one you were interested in is the Action Plan of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and it is intended for the withdrawal of ambassadors, as has been done. The economic parameters for 2008 can be said that everyone will be very positive, and what awaits us in 2009 is not only a matter of this government and it is not only a matter of this economy, but of everything that is happening in the world markets. Finally, I would like to thank again for the participation and the opportunity to discuss what the government has done. I am pleased with the way the discussion has been conducted and I would especially like to appeal to MPs from all MPs that, when we begin to discuss the budget, we hold this rhythm and mode of work, which will allow us to successfully end that session. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10895	Thank you, Mr. President. A proposed representative, Mr Samardzic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10896	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister, Prime Minister, I can express a certain amount of satisfaction in this house of darkness, which was closed without a door and window when it came to KiM, but some ray of light broke through, so that there was a word here about it, and by the opposition, which she demanded, both by the government and the government of the majority in the Assembly itself. So that's what we're looking for. We've been trying to get that since June, practically since the end of July, when the Assembly started working. Finally, here's December 18th, after six months, we got that, and thanks to the most difficult possible means, the only thing we have left to call on is Article 130. The Constitution of Serbia. So, on a member that you as a majority couldn't question, although many of you, I can see that you would question that constitution very gladly, while it is in force, Article 130. That is why we managed to introduce, when it comes to the most important state issue, yet some of the elements of democracy in this home and in this country. The whole problem was that the KIM policy was led behind closed doors, from July to today practically, and that policy followed certain documents and certain decisions or quasi-decisions that could not be reached in our public. Thank God we've shown what these decisions are today. Some members of the opposition also quoted them as saying, the presidential statement, and I especially must express my satisfaction with the fact that the representatives of the government have, in fact, confirmed our views. That's not scary. That's good. The Prime Minister and three ministers spoke, and when it came to the Security Council's decision to engage Eulex, we claimed that there was no such decision and that our claim was not denied. She's indirectly confirmed. There's no decision of the Security Council to hire Eulex. We've cleared that up today, I hope, for all time. It's about facts. It has also been confirmed that the six-point promise lies in an invalid, legally non-binding document, called the Secretary-General's report. What we have been saying all along is that the six-point negotiations are one haze to pass through the geese called the citizens of Serbia. The fog has spread today, and we know what it's really about, not only based on what the representatives of the promoters and the opposition said, but also on what the ministers said. That's fine, but the problems remain. This isn't some great pleasure or satisfaction that's confirmed what we've been talking about and why we've been looking for this session. The problems remain. The biggest problem is that by the government and the president of the Republic, of course, Resolution 1244, which is the most important document by the Security Council, confirms Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity, has been emptied from any content based on the government's functioning. That was already said here. We have heard today from two representatives of the ruling majority of the congregation benches that they do not see the difference between the engagement of Eulex and the engagement of Unmik. All right. Maybe people have a right not to know what this is about. The problem is that they speak for the congregation speaker and confirm their ignorance. That's two completely different things. Unmik has a legal basis in Resolution 1244, has its mandate which is clear, which is listed in a large number of provisions of Resolution 1244, has its position, has its reserved powers in the image of a special representative etc. Unlike Unmik, Eulex has a legal basis in Marty Ahtisaari's plan, which has never been adopted on the Security Council. Eulex has up to 2,000 employees, who are tasked with carrying out some of the powers of an independent Kosovo, believed to be in the international community that Kosovo is unable to implement them. It is touching that the KIM minister and one member of parliament feel that Eulex should bring justice and justice to KIM. And if he will, he can't. There's no jurisdiction. No authority. There aren't enough people. It's simple, there's nothing to introduce justice and justice. That's impossible, but it was possible to hear something like that in the Serbian Parliament. It's good to hear that. That's why I'm personally pleased. The big problem is that there is a great chance that Serbia has the support of the Security Council for its KIM policy. That support grew over time. Among other things, it grew because Serbia had a good basis for its actions, for government actions, for the actions of the negotiating team in parliament resolutions that were adopted with 220 MPs in the assembly. Believe me, I can tell you from my experience that it's very good, that it's a very good backdrop for people representing the country, whether it's government representatives or members of the negotiating team. It was lost because this ruling majority for the first time in three or four years did not want to have that majority. It is known what she did with the resolutions, how she put them on and took them off, how she removed the opposition's proposals for resolutions, etc. That's one big problem that we have left entirely. When it comes to other things that have been discussed, which is very nice to the promoters, although they have put KIM and Eulex as a topic and the occasion of the talks, in the meantime, and it has been a month and a half since the initiative was put forward, many things have actually happened that confirm that this government is in a practical crisis, because there are no answers to any questions that it has raised itself and put them as a priority in its four-year term policy. European integration. Today we have had the opportunity to listen to the Deputy Prime Minister, in charge of European integration in the previous and current mandate of the government, which has one of its own interesting disciplines. It is called - an opinion from the future, because he keeps thinking from the future, sets some dates in the future, tries to convince both Serbian MPs and citizens that these dates, which are fictitiously set, are real dates. I think it's very easy to do, but it's not easy to do. So we had just one difficult situation with that SAA. This was an important document for Serbia because it was meant to establish comprehensive relations between Serbia and the EU. The document was used by the European Union as an instrument for imposing its policy on Kosovo, but not only did the EU, but the government accepted it, or part of the government that caused the government to fall apart, and that part is now doing so and benefiting. The SAA is not applicable, nor is that part of the trade or transition part of it, we talked about it, but it's very difficult to imagine that it will ever apply. Is it realistic, let's not take these fictitious dates, but rather deal with the parameters that exist in the integration process, that 27 Member States, 22 of whom have recognised Kosovo as an independent state, have ratified the Stabilisation and Association Agreement? It's enough that one doesn't ratify, and the agreement can't come into effect. Someone says - only Holland doesn't let that happen. Listen, until it's over with everyone, because that's the procedure, the decision-making procedure is unanimity in these things. One or 27 is exactly the same. Until the last one ratifys the agreement or until the last one says that the conditions of co-operation with The Hague tribunal have been met, as if none of them have done so. We have 27 ratifications ahead of us in the Member States. It's easy to estimate. Someone judge differently from what I'm doing right now. It's my opinion that it's impossible. In light of this, setting dates for anything related to European integration is extremely unserious. Only if we believe that someone's truth comes from the future, but it's really not possible. The third group of issues discussed and discussed by ministers, and the Prime Minister, his opinion, is an economic group of issues. Of course, it is a big problem for this country, but I am personally surprised that it is still operating on certain figures that are in the domain of the impossible: the inflation of 8% for next year, the growth of the social product 3%, the money that is stable compared to the euro, the investments that will come, the budget that will achieve all the necessary public spending costs. These are things that are hard to believe, but let's not owe it. In the end, let me draw one conclusion. This government has big problems. She's faced with serious problems, and we shouldn't be happy about it, because it's this country's problems, not just these governments. The bigger problem with this problem is that the government has destroyed its bridges towards the opposition. In fact, she didn't even need an opinion, not a word in the opposition assembly on these three groups of problems, primarily on KIM, but also on European integrations, and on economic issues, of course. The government itself is very heterogeneous. It consists of 10, 12 or 15 parties, I'm not sure, but in any case of large enough that it can't establish elementary cohesion over these important things. The government faces another issue that opened a month ago in Vojvodina, which is the Statute of Vojvodina. The statute, gentlemen, in 30 or 40 provisions, which will be discussed in this assembly one day, directly violates Serbia's Constitution and directly violates it. That's the problem with this government's internal affairs, which she herself won't know what to do with it. That is, therefore, one of the simplest facts. That is also what the expert public debate on several occasions gave its opinion. So it's a hell of a problem. Of course, it can be seen on the surface that it is the opposition's gambling to demand the government's shift today, to demand a vote of mistrust. It may be so at first sight, but the opposition today faces one dilemma, so, with one choice, with a choice between two evils, between larger and smaller. The greater evil is that this government remains, because it will not be able to resolve these issues, especially because there is no unity in the state, there is no unity in itself. It is less evil, though evil, to vote no confidence in the government, but we have no other choice and therefore the proposal for signatories is that in this assembly, after this debate, a vote of mistrust to this government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-12-18-0.u10897	Ladies and gentlemen, it's December 19th. In your name and in your name, I congratulate all those who celebrate St. Nicholas. I would like to thank all the MPs, all the ministers, the Prime Minister, for participating in the work today. Our work lasted 15 hours today. Allow that, according to Article 204(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule a vote on the proposal of 86 MPs, members of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, the NS and the SRS to vote for mistrust with the government of the Republic of Serbia, so for 19 December 2008 at 00:29 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen, before we move to a decision on a motion to vote for no confidence in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we need to establish a quorum. According to Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. The application of the electronic voting system has shown that 123 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that fewer than 126 MPs are present, so there are no conditions for deciding. I'll let you know later on about the decision-making day. Tomorrow at 10:00, we'll continue our work. Today is December 19th. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude the session. As the National Assembly conducted a review of the session's single agenda, I conclude the fourth session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008.
