ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u4	Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting for breach of Articles 27 and 98. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which you have committed, on a number of grounds. First of all, I did not know from the National Assembly’s service that this session would continue, by informing me about it in the way it is done by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which the provisions accordingly have to apply to the case of the continuation of the session, because other provisions do not have this Rules of Procedure. So we didn't get a call for this session. Why are we here today? We are simply here because it must react in this place to this kind of injury, because it would not be possible to do so elsewhere, anywhere but at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, even at such a bad term. So I learned about this session by calling from my mobile phone the Secretary of the National Assembly, Mrs Tamara Stojcevic, on several occasions, until in the end, on my own initiative, I found out when the session would continue. That's how I informed members of my DSS-NS parliamentary group, and that's why we're here today. That's why I'm putting in a protest, because of the way you've scheduled this session to continue. Secondly, even if you did so in the way that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia foresees, it is extremely unfair and incorrect that you have called a session in this way for at least two reasons: the first reason is less important, and the second one is much more important. The first reason is that it is not correct and it is not polite to invite MPs to continue the session 24 hours ahead of the session, and everyone knows that there is no deadline that stands out or any other reason why the session of the National Assembly should continue today, and MPs of the National Assembly are informed about it, say, yesterday. It's in the end line rude. It is incorrect because you are forcing people to break down from their seats to a session of the National Assembly, and you were able to make it very easy to schedule a session two or three days ahead, so that the MPs could prepare themselves for that session. You just didn't do it. Another reason, for which the public does not know well enough, I will now underline it, which this week is the summer session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It is a state-owned parliamentary obligation of this parliament, which has a elected delegation until its composition is changed by a new decision and which takes part in the summer parliamentary session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. That may not be more than domestic affairs, unless we know it, and you had to know it, because other people in this House who were in certain positions were informed of it, or you knew it because you signed a solution for our trip. Mrs Tamara Stojcevic, secretary, knew this because she participated in the realization of the job. You should have known that there were MPs who were obliged to participate in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in the summer session that lasted this week. The bigger problem is - what is on the agenda of individual committees of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe? At tomorrow's session of the Committee on Human Rights and Legal Affairs, as part of the agenda, there is a selection of rapporteurs for the report on the deaths of people missing in Kosovo and Metohija in human organs trafficking. It was an initiative by the Russian and our delegations in the Council of Europe to open the issue. For the first time since the 1990s, we have come into a situation where such a tragic thing appears on the agenda of a serious international forum, and this time it is the oldest European organisation of states. In fact, thanks to the radical way in which the session continues, we members of that delegation are not in a position to attend. You can say we can choose what we want to do - be here or there. But again, I underline that word I said at the beginning, which is that it's rude. It's at least rude, and on the other hand it's not the least I should point out, it's anti-state. The third, no less significant, is that for the first time since I was an MP in the National Assembly, I have experienced a session being scheduled to continue without any consultation with the heads of Parliament. You may have consulted amongst your ranks, at the PUPS. [[Applause]] You may have consulted with Unique Serbia, with the SPS, and possibly with the Democratic Party, but you certainly didn't do that with any of the other heads of parliament, as far as I know from the heads of opposition parliamentary groups, even the bosses, because we don't know which opposition, which are not, and we'll just see.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u5	Mr. Aligrudic, please. Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u6	Let me finish. Thank you for warning me on time. I'm just finishing up, so I'll get back to you. So you didn't do it the way you were supposed to do it, which would impose elemental decency, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u7	Thank you. He has the word Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u8	Mr. Krkobiæ, there have been older presidents of this assembly since I've been in this business, but you're the first one to be dragged into the unholy shops, to pretend like you don't know anything, and your academic calling is about having a sufficient percentage of intelligence and education to figure out where you are and what you do. Let me remind you, on June 11th, by interrupting the session, you said: "This is the day we have completed the work of the session of the National Assembly. You will be informed of the continuation of the session. Thank you." To remind you, these professional services of yours, which prevented you from calling a session at which we would condemn the constitution of the self-proclaimed false state of Kosovo, were your excuse to be interpreted by the Constitution. Let me remind you that you haven't scheduled this session at all. You can sign, Mr. Krkobic, on travel orders, and you can't at the invitation to continue the session. It means nothing to you to continue the session, because you are the chairman, because you have professional services and you have no responsibility, Mr. Krkobic. We choose the president and forget about Jovan Krkobibic, and how he led the session of the National Assembly. Of course, you tried another scam at the moment I answered the word, but let's first consider all the frauds you've committed by calling this session. First of all, MPs were informing MPs that a session was scheduled for today at 4:00. They had no clue or evidence, but were trusted by the secretary of the National Assembly, who told them, "Call the messengers on the phone, tomorrow at 4:00 a.m., the session continues." If you, Mr. Krkobic, do not appreciate that the people have chosen you as a MP, the MPs of the SRS are extremely esteemed and do not allow you to manipulate them, just as if they were not MPs, but as employees of your company, for which it is enough for you to use the phone, via the secretary's secretary, to inform them when the session will continue. Next, you opened this session. It's where we should choose the president of the assembly. When did you get the proposal for the President of the Assembly, Mr. Krkobic? Five minutes ago, because I'm counting on us MPs to get when you do and the difference is only in the time it takes to print the proposal out. What kind of an extremity did he tell you yesterday that today the president of the assembly will be elected and that you can use the phone to call the MPs. Are you psychic, Mr. Krkobabi? If you're psychic, what did you talk to me about forming a government, why didn't you say that your great psychicity had already told you that you would form a government with the other majority? Mr. Krkobic, you said the quorum would be determined by counting the MPs. Why didn't they teach you these professional services that you first have to inform us that the electronic system isn't operational, and we don't mean that much to you to tell us - my fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we will now count you down, since we suspect that there is more of you in the hall than the electronic system says. Next, Mr. Krkobic, you should have determined at 16 o'clock whether there was a quorum or not. The quorum for the constitutive session is 126 MPs, to set a break of an hour, and not that we and the whole of Serbia, who as something awaits the National Assembly, wait when you will have mercy and start speaking in the microphone. We in such a style of work, Mr. Krkobic, didn't agree when you were much stronger and when you were in power, when you called the police to kick us out of the O.R., and not now. Only now will you feel, Mr. Krkobic, that Serbia has become a small democratic country in the past 15 years, since you have not been very active. (President: Time.) () You know what, only the president of the National Assembly can warn me. Since you, Mr. Krkobic, had no right to convene a session of the National Assembly, then you have no right to warn me, since you are not the president of the National Assembly. Everywhere in the Rules of Procedure, it says "The President of the National Assembly", it does not say that the chairman of the People's Parliament's Warrant. So, you're one of my colleagues, and your age accidentally put you in that place. I hope he doesn't want me, that I won't be involved in politics for so long I'm chairing as the oldest MP. It wouldn't do me much good. I really don't think I'm going to be a MP in 78 years. If I can't run 100 meters, I won't even be a MP. So, your function as chairman, as you treat her... (President: Mr. Nikolic, six minutes and 26 seconds. How do you know how much you have the right to let me speak? Where it says it in the Rules of Procedure. Tell me by what member of the Rules of Procedure do you know how long it takes to let me speak? Look how nice and polite I am, and take the minutes from the session when I'm elected president of the National Assembly. We won't let ourselves, we haven't fallen so low, but, oh, my God, you'll be waiting, sleeping, listening and awake today. This session will take a very long time, and I ask you to answer the question whether you have broken the Rules of Procedure in these few points that I have mentioned. I can tell you Article 98(2), but I guess your professional services know that. I want this to be decided. This session cannot begin until we determine the quorum. We all have electronic voting cards, the electronic system is fully operational. If the screen doesn't show you 126, there's no session extension.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u9	The word is John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u10	Infringement of Rules of Procedure, Article 98(4) You know, there are MPs here who have already been Members of Parliament for several terms and who do not remember that this is how a session is scheduled to continue to be elected by the President of Parliament. So, the secretary of the DSS-NS MP club, the secretary of parliament's text message, informed that there would be a continuation of the session. Such disrespect at home, when elected speaker of the assembly, shows how the new parliamentary majority will exercise power. There's an old saying by our Valthazar Bogisic, "What the coat of arms is born, time doesn't correct." We are convinced that this new ruling majority will thus end its mandate.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u11	The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we remember the MPs from those previous mandates and the time when the session of the National Assembly was scheduled in this way. We remember Natasa Micic, who also in the last diary informed some of the TVs that a session of the National Assembly was scheduled. After her replacement, we were convinced that this time would never come to Serbia again. Unfortunately, here's another chance for us to have to follow the media in order to know that the National Assembly is scheduled. One television show at 16:30 yesterday says, according to sources of the television show, a session of the National Assembly will be held on Tuesday or Wednesday. Half an hour later on another television show, the chairman scheduled a session of the National Assembly. Mr. Chairman, by the way you have gathered the MPs you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly, you have injured Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Of course, it's not the only member you've hurt. You've also injured article 86. We're not any informal group here. We are MPs of the National Assembly, the Serbian Parliament, there are 250 democratically elected in the last parliamentary elections. You've brought us together here as some people from the street you met along the way, nor do we know how many of us were in the O.R. when you started the session. Of course, again against the rules of the Rules of Procedure, because after 15 minutes you didn't realize that you had no conditions to continue the session, nor do we know how many of us are in the O.R. We see on this monitor that 118 MPs are in this room. That means, Mr. Chairman, there are no conditions for, as the secretaries have told us, a continuation of the constitutional session. You did not have the authority because you informed the public a few days ago that, listening to the professional services of the National Assembly, you refused to schedule a completely regular and legitimate and very, very important session of the National Assembly, which the MPs intended to discuss, on the declaration of the constitution of the self-proclaimed Republic of Kosovo. You didn't have a mandate to call the National Assembly back then. Then when you accepted it, you should have said or taught you in the services of the Assembly – although, believe me, I have long experience with the congregation services and it has never happened that congregation services make such a kick, it is another problem, some sort of agreement that we will definitely discuss today and these days – if they have told you that you can't call a session on a proposal by a group of MPs, which would discuss the illegal adoption of a constitution on the territory of the Republic of Serbia that has its own Constitution, which is of course a recognised state, and you did not allow us to discuss it. You should've asked those professional services -- how am I supposed to continue that session on June 11th in the first place? Of course, you didn't do it and I don't know, I'm not really sure if you knew this session would be scheduled today. I'd like you to let the MPs know if you got a text message, too. Is this session, i.e. the continuation of the session scheduled from Andric's wedding? Did Boris Tadic do this, or was it really done, or was it tried to do it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Bosko Ristic, I know you can't, without mentioning Mr. Seselj. Of course, Mr. Seselj is... Please don't throw it away. )......................................................................................................... Thank you for asking, President of the SRS, a man who is heroically in The Hague fighting for Serbian national interests. We, his radicals, are fighting yellow criminals here. We defend our president, unlike those of you who killed your own.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u13	Thank you very much, Mrs. Radeta. The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic. Please don't throw it away. Here you go, this doesn't apply to you, I'm warning my colleagues not to earn.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u14	You should, Mr. Krkobic, you will see that Mr. Bosko Ristić is one of the MPs who does not respect discipline, but good. Your experience in these another hour and 15 minutes, as far as we're going to do today, I warn you that we can do this and chat, since we haven't even determined the quorum exactly by 6:00 p.m. Everything after that doesn't come within the time limit of your service to the chairman, nor can we stay in the O.R., as well as all the other MPs. The Assembly's working hours are up to 1800 hours. If you wanted to extend it, you had to let us know at 4:00. First of all, you had to take us, the MPs, who were attending us at 15.00 hours at Surcin airport, the special "fallon" plane that you sent for us to Strasbourg, to inform yesterday that you intend to return us to Serbia. Since you seem to me to be some thrifty and rational man, you are still the president of the PUPS, and I thought, Mr. Krkobic, that you were fighting for pensioners' rights. Here, I have a mother who's retired, you're also your son and other Serbian citizens, and they're over a million. Mr. Krkobic, you should have been so thrifty and thought, if you've dared to invite us without notice in the Rules of Procedure to return to Belgrade, to the National Assembly, that you know how much it costs, that a special plane is coming for us. You know, I knew Mr. Micunovic used to spend more time in the air than he did in the House of the National Assembly before, but that I have to do it myself, like other fellow MPs, really like the burning state. We have heard, the president of the National Assembly is elected, just now has been given an explanation, a proposal to explain, please, whether some of us today had to speak at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where you sent us, and you had no right to sign that warrant for our trip, which is why we had to come back here. Today, we intend to talk to the Director of the Bank for Reconstruction and Development about how pensions are small, here are your pensioners and all pensioners in Serbia, how the tycoons bought everything for 2-3 euros per Serbia, how the people are out of business, how our economy failed. You deprived us of this opportunity to go before the Council of Europe today, in which you so eagerly wish to enter with such pensions, and with this kind of cost to the state, such as "fallon", you made it impossible for us to talk about it. I think it is extremely irresponsible, Mr. Krkobic, and you as chairman have only that role, you must know that one way or another you will enter the history of parliamentaryism, and one day it will say that John Krkobic, who, in such a way, hastened to create an unnatural coalition in which he himself participates, has brought MPs and the entire National Assembly and the public into this situation. So, we're going to be calling from these 18 hours, how long do we have left to search another member of the Rules of Procedure, and then in another day, but please let us know neatly when it is, continue to talk about what is going on this session, which is the choice of the president, the secretary, the vice president, the working bodies, and until we get to that session where the Republic Government is elected the way you imagined it. But it'll take a long time. I wouldn't trust your visibility, so if you saw by chance that the day the Government of the Republic of Serbia is elected, yet you do it somewhere in your mind and move it a little bit because it will take a while, we have a government law, we have a Rules of Procedure, we have a lot more to do, and we have a government when it does, but I can see the end of it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u15	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Krkobiæ, it's kind of hard for me to break my tongue, I personally believe that you are in this, what is happening today, either unwittingly involved or not the service has given you the necessary explanation to continue the session you have interrupted. I think, Mr. Krkobiæ, that you should be prepared with the Secretary of Parliament today, since today from this session there will be nothing, that you consult and that the next session be prepared in the manner the Rules of Procedure implies, as all sessions have been scheduled so far when the President of the Assembly was elected. If possibly the service has some problems, I suggest you consult Mrs. Vukic, who has done it in a brilliant way and she will explain to you how you should schedule this session. Otherwise, you'll be responsible for what's going to happen and, unfortunately, it hasn't happened the first time. Last year, we had an almost identical case in the Belgrade City Assembly, when a yellow company also scheduled the election of the president of the City Assembly and did not allow opposition committees to propose their candidates, also in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I assume you know that the epilogue of all this was the annulment of the election of the president of the assembly. What's interesting is that I appreciate it, is that it was done by the minister of the DS, because it was not possible to cross over such lawlessness, and at the very least, it was meant to guide this example when it was scheduled for this session. I think the previous speakers have explained how much trouble this session has caused, not just the Strasbourg sessions. MPs went to some of their jobs or other obligations from the country, had to return because of this, and all of this could have been avoided in a very simple way, to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to respect all MPs in the Serbian Parliament, not just those who made a certain deal and came to the majority. That's okay, legitimately, we don't mind, the assembly always works when it comes to 126 MPs, or the possibility of electing a president, and then the vice president, to establish the Assembly definitely. But the way you did this casts a shadow upon you personally and casts a shadow upon the parties that participated in this. You had to call the heads of parliament, explain that an agreement was reached, regardless of whether there is a possibility, because there is a possibility that, according to the Rules of Procedure, at least 30 MPs would propose someone else to the president of the assembly. It's clear that he won't be elected doesn't change things. It is the right of MPs to do so and you should have made it possible for all MPs. This is how you blatantly violate the Rules of Procedure, abuse the fact that you are currently chairing the session of the Serbian Parliament, in order to achieve the speedy possibility of electing the president of the Assembly, or forming a new government. I think that this speed and this kind of start can cast a great shadow over the work of the Serbian Parliament, will cast a shadow on you, no matter what I believe you didn't do on purpose, you were probably led astray, but I suggest that immediately after this session is over, no later than tomorrow, you invite the presidents of the parliamentary groups to consult and that, as this Rules of Procedure provides, the session of the Serbian Parliament continues to work, to elect a president, so after that, the vice president, the secretary, etc. (President: Mr. Todorovic, time. We've got time. Don't worry about us. (President: You be my guest, your time is up.) When you were able to get us back from Strasbourg, you don’t have to be afraid at all. (President: You have run out of time, be kind. Please leave the pay phone. It's been five minutes. Mr. Krkobiæ, just one small remark, that you have said this that I am running out of time. Serbia is looking at this, both you and me, so let it figure out where time is running out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u17	MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u18	In the beginning, I would have to tell these young Members of Parliament and the public what it is and what it is about to see a breach of which member of the Rules of Procedure. Today, the one who called on the MPs did exactly that injury to that member of the Rules of Procedure he called upon when he called on us. How do they find this member of the Rules of Procedure? They can hardly find him, but I have a backup member, that's 225 and 226. I believe that it is important for this National Assembly to begin with, and given how the vice presidents are elected, how committees and other working bodies of the National Assembly are formed, and given that there should be a spirit of tolerance for parliamentaryism, agreements, conversations, I believe that a great mistake has been made for texting the act of inviting MPs to continue the constitutional session of the National Assembly. It's not good when in the constitutive session, and it's not finished yet, it demonstrates, so how can anyone interpret it, whether force, whether ignorance, whether something schizophrenic, which initially shows where it goes and how it goes. However, when we look at this Rules of Procedure and the provisions on how the National Assembly President is elected, it is the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Anything contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not valid. And what is in force in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is: in order for this assembly to work, there must be 126 MPs here and this must be determined to continue. Of course, it's not a quorum that's being determined here, it's going further along the endurance system. If MPs criticise, there is no problem, there can be a delay in the beginning of the constitutional session, and if MPs show inertness or not effective in an hour, they may, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure, choose what you want. That's what democracy taught us, that's what DS taught us, that's what DOS taught us. DOS said -- you burn the Assembly, you burn the party headquarters, you take immunity from political opponents, you cut their kids in the schoolyards, you arrest them for 11,000, you prosecute them. But that's another story. That's what we're going to talk about when the right agenda comes to remind us what democracy's evolution is like, how someone imagines they can run the state and they don't care where KIM is. Borka Vukic was a Mrs. Couple of Excellencys, it's an honor to her, if she follows the transmission, we welcome her. She turned out to be a great man, and when she was critical, she called for a new session. A proper resolution, a declaration, has been made, however, for those who receive it is probably something other than territory, show a high dose of ignorance, and even have a chairman who is not even the first among the equals. He's not even halfway to the first among the equals. He was one of the provisions and the fact that he was born earlier than others had been given the opportunity to preside over a very short period of time, counting on years to bear authority, that everyone would show respect for those years, at first help to choose those who should lead the National Assembly and the working bodies of the National Assembly in the spirit of tolerance and parliamentary atmosphere. Of course, it's gone, because there's something else. What could be different, we'll talk, but probably the moment when the constitutional session, which has been cut short, is in line with the Rules of Procedure. Why do you start breaking the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u19	Dear Mr. Krassic, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u20	By what member, Mr. Krkobic? Would you be kind enough to say what member he is, given that everyone who sits behind that microphone is bound to say -- the party and that, the Rules of Procedure and that, the member and that, the first position, the second position, the third position. I'm asking you to do that, I'm sure you've been watching a transfer from the National Assembly some time. If you were watching, you saw that every chairman, president, the vice president who sat in your seat held this white book and read which member and what position. Would you be kind enough to comply with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u21	Mr. Krasic, you know that well, Article 100, point 2. You have it in front of you and you can do it whenever you want, but there's no need to push around. Please be kind, your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u22	Would you be kind enough to say which member?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u23	Article 100(2)
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u24	You've just forgotten one thing, Mr. Krkabobic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u25	I don't know what I forgot. Be nice, you have six minutes, seven minutes of your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u26	Mr. Krkobiæ, what you know, what you don't know, I don't care, but I have to tell you that we're only with Article 8. So we successfully overcame the first eight members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and that's where you cut off the constitutional session. It would be good for you to read the title between the 8th and 9th members, see and put your finger on and say, that's where the National Assembly is now. Now that you're talking about article 100, then he says -- who wants to talk about the breach of this Rules of Procedure is giving a word right after the final presentation of the previous speaker. That's what you did. Three minutes. What three minutes? What do those three minutes apply to?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u27	Be kind, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u28	Mr. Krkobic, I'm not a problem, I'm just trying to convince you how many of you have been deceived by those who advised you to do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u29	Don't try that at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u30	So you're convinced you've been deceived. If you're convinced you've been fooled, then I'm sorry for these two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u31	Don't try. Thank you very much. MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u32	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, member of the 5th current Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, says to the first session of the National Assembly until the election of the President of the National Assembly the oldest MP is chaired. The oldest MP, Mr. Krkobic, is here only because fate brought him here. That Mr. Micunovic was born two months earlier, because as far as I know, there is only two months of difference, and I don't think Mr. Micunovic would be a premature one, but he would now chair here and be behind us and far better at this session. Mr. Krkobiæ, you are a National MP and nothing more and nothing less than that. The place where you are sitting does not allow you, first of all, to comment on the statements of the MPs from this assembly, secondly, to limit your time of presentation of the MPs, because when we look at the Rules of Procedure, the powers of the President of the National Assembly are not also the powers of the chair of the National Assembly. The powers of the oldest MP, the authority of one who only gets the circumstances sitting there, because what you are sitting next to you, and I see four-five of the youngest Members, who also have the same rights, say they are helping you in your work, which means that each of them could now say - sir, your time is now up. Mr. Krkobic, please, if you have not already submitted to the Rules of Procedure in time, take the Rules of Procedure, and before you decide to deny one of the MPs his rights, see if you have the right to do so in the Rules of Procedure. Of course, we SRS MPs don't mind if you schedule an extension of the constitutional session. The constitutional session differs from the other sessions, because they are working, the rest are passed by laws, they are regular, and the constitutive session is only a session where those who will sit in accordance with the Rules of Procedure should be chosen where you are sitting right now. But we don't mind having you call us text messages, we don't mind having the citations and people who went on vacations, or having MPs sent to Strasbourg to defend Serbia's interests, send a plane to get them and drag them to this session, which you have, by the way, absolutely by the way, set up the Rules of Procedure. We don't mind your coalition arrangements, we don't mind you making arrangements with us during the day, and with them at night, even I understand that, because you met at night, because you couldn't see them, so it's a little different in the dark. All we're against is working past the Rules of Procedure and past the Constitution. As far as the SRS MPs are concerned, this session is not scheduled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is not scheduled in accordance with the Constitution, and this is just one of the most ordinary seats, a talk room. When you are in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, then the MPs of the SRS will go out for this pay phone and explain to you where you are wrong, and you are justified in showing how you need to do it a little while longer until the president of the National Assembly is elected. Don't let it occur to you that you're denying time, that you're determining time, because you have no right to do that. Don't even think about punishing one of the MPs by accident. The President can do it on a motion from Parliament. You can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u33	I ask MP Cedomir Jovanovic to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u34	Dear Mr. Krkobic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first like to congratulate you on your election, and then to ask you, Mr. Krkobic, to act as chairman in accordance with Article 86 who has been injured. There's no point in making it out of this congregation, but at this point it's chaos. Last time we elected the President of Parliament at five o'clock in the morning, we elected the government at midnight. We are, of course, ready to participate in this Parliament's work, regardless of which we disagree with the motion for Parliament's president, but consultation is needed. Mr Dacic is a representative of the promoters, I would ask him to allow the consults of the heads of parliament by calling for a member of the 98th and of you, as the chairman of the National Assembly, to request that you set a break in this work of the Republic Parliament, which has not actually formally begun to work, because if we can do something at first, it is to try to make this assembly better than the one that remains behind us. So, we are ready to participate in the work, we want to establish parliament, we want to begin the debate on the future government as soon as possible and face a vote on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We're ready to give the quorum. If there's no quorum at this point, we don't see any use in tripping, but let's just make a deal and get out of this problem that you're least responsible for.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u35	National MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u36	Of course, Article 98(4), but as Mr Krasic said, and Article 225 and Article 226. I hope you don't count on me to quote this time. Article 98: "The President of the National Assembly will inform the MPs about the continuation of the session." I can tell you how I've been informed of the continuation of the session, it'll be interesting. In addition to a session held in Strasbourg, which is very important for the state of Serbia and where, as we know, our delegation has been, in addition, the commitment of this National Assembly is also the participation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly seminar. One was organised in October in Belgrade, and this was to be attended by members of the delegation, Mr Marko Djurisic, Mr Bajatovic, Mr Igor Becic, my little one. Yesterday, I regularly came to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, was in my parliamentary club, saw several colleagues, went to the cash register normally to save this country, so they could raise their pensions, not to take the plane, but to go to my own arrangement, my car in Montenegro, not far away. He raised those travel expenses that were far lower than the plane ticket, and other colleagues, as far as I know, took the plane. For example, Mr. Konstantin Samofalov, according to my information, was supposed to come to Montenegro early this morning for that seminar. No one told me anything. I got in my car, I got to Podgorica, I called Mr. Palalic's phone, and he tells me, on Tanjug, I saw the assembly session tomorrow, how are you going to Montenegro? I'm calling the secretaries. No one knows how to tell me that the National Assembly is today. Finally, at seven o’clock in the evening, I learn, through a secretary who received a text message from the secretary of the National Assembly, that a session of the National Assembly was indeed scheduled, I am turning to Podgorica as a responsible MP. You've known me like this since 2000, I don't want my card to be there, I'm not Bora Novakovic to be in Thessaloniki and my card to be here, I'm not Neda Arneric to be in Bodrum and my card to be here. Turn the car around, go back to Belgrade tonight at two o'clock to attend a session of the National Assembly. This way it's really on your side at least irresponsible. So, you have to credit the costs, not only for these MPs who were in Strasbourg, but also for those who were made for the seminar, and you are praying that all these costs be deducted from your salary, so that they do not go to the expense of the taxpayers, the citizens of Serbia, and to save themselves in this way. Turn away from your salary, Mr. Krkobic, or pensions, if we want to save and see how we get to these 70 per cent pensions from the average salary in Serbia. I've heard from G17 that it's impossible, multiple times, but we'll see. Let's not go any further, gentlemen. For two days, the Kobajags conducted public negotiations. So what was said in the sheds, the holes, the glass halls and the pubs, that doesn't count as public. Two days of cobayage being held in public negotiations, no one knows who agreed, bids on the portfolios, as if it were the most important, as if it were not a policy, a strategy, the way the state and the public were going to run it, it began to ask questions. The question needs to be shortened, the public needs to be shortened and denied from knowledge and knowledge of what is actually happening and what kind of coalition is being prepared, and that's why it's done so quickly. Mr. Krkobic, listen to a few MPs who have already recommended this to you, and I would also like to ask you to do so. Set up a meeting with the president of the parliamentary groups, schedule a normal session, say, for Tuesday, so that we can do what it takes to get rid of it in Strasbourg. After that, we'll choose a new government. You won't do anything like this. This way, at best, at the end of next week, or maybe in two or three weeks, you'll be able to choose a government. I'm sure you won't choose the President of the Assembly today. So, schedule consultations and agree normally, as is normal in each parliament, and then everything will be the way Serbia, Serbian citizens and the public of Serbia deserve it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u37	The People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and at the same time the citizens of Serbia, here I am before the SRS, to point to a series of violations of the Rules of Procedure. I'm going to specifically state here where the Rules of Procedure is injured, and I'd like to have the chair chair give me the appropriate answers. Namely, as my colleagues at the SRS Parliament Club have pointed out, we have two major problems here. First of all, we have a way of calling a session of SMS messages through the secretary, secretly, at night, and we have an attempt at an impeccable quorum, where the non-existent quorum wants to be irrigated by a false number of votes, when at the same time we know that we have an electronic system, which is fully operational, and which is fully relevant for this quorum to be determined, and that the citizens of Serbia can see it unequivocally. Let's start with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Chairman, in Article 9, it is said - the candidate for president of the National Assembly can propose at least 30 MPs. You have made it impossible for us, in this way, to suggest a counterproposal, which would also be legitimate and legal. We didn't even know who your future candidate was, so of course we couldn't even form our own proposal. Article 10 of our Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, says: "The proposal for a candidate for the president of the National Assembly is submitted to the chairman in writing." The next line is this: "The chairman delivers to the MPs all the proposals received by candidates for the president of the National Assembly." Mr. Chairman, you have not delivered us, in a regular and transparent manner, a written proposal that we could analyse and which we could quality and qualified here to plead. It's possible that you think it doesn't matter, it's possible that you're introducing hiducia here from some previous times, where we know, of course, how it worked and how it worked. Furthermore, I would like to point out the most because of our citizens, not because of you, Mr. Krkobiæ, of Article 84, where - the President of the National Assembly by written means determines the day and hour of the meeting of the National Assembly, with a proposal for the agenda at least seven days before the date for which the session is convened. Of course, the next order - extremely, notice about the time of the session and the agenda can also be delivered within a short period, with the National Assembly president obliged to explain such a procedure at the beginning of the session. Why didn't you, Mr. Krkogobiæ, explain why you had such a hiddusic, non-civilization, non-European, non-transparent way to schedule this assembly? I'm asking you to answer that question. What are those motives? Perhaps, I'll be inclined, since I'm a doctor, to justify your age for you, and perhaps there will be some interpretation that you are ignorant in these affairs, that it may be an excuse for you. As an individual, however, I doubt it when I read that you interpreted the legal process – that you cannot call a meeting of this parliament when we should have pleaded on Kosovo. So you don't warn me and I don't want to say in five minutes what I have to say, just to tell you -- it's not Europeanism showing up in Armani's suit, Mr. Krkobic. Respect for the procedure is what Europe is and what democracy is, and so does this gentleman you call the patriarch of democracy, who enjoys this chaos that you make here. [[Applause]] Also, I want to tell you, you've been called Robin Hood, you've been living a lot in Robin Hood's role, and it seems you can't wait to put the law in order, where you're going to give 70% of your pensions to the pensioners. However, Robin Hood was a hiduk, and please don't be a hiduk. I will finish with this: I have no doubt that you are an honorable man, but if you continue in this way to lead this session, I will no longer believe it and I will say - Mr. Krkobic is an unworthy man. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u39	MP Igor Becic. (Paja Momchilov, from the scene: I am looking for answers, because I have asked three questions. ) You'll get it. Take it easy, just enjoy it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we had determined the quorum for this session at 4:00 p.m., we could say it would end the way it started. In my long-standing parliamentary internship, I have had various humiliations from some of the presidents of parliament, so here you are as chairman, to experience that we are being ridiculed by over 20 parliamentarians of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly this morning, because you also, as well as my colleague Dragan Shormaz, have, since I was here yesterday, taken the decision for the official trip, sent us to Montenegro for that conference, because it is our responsibility for this Parliament. Also, we came, so at least if you had texted us by texting us 15 minutes earlier, we wouldn't have unpacked. By the way, we all arrived tonight, we took over the material this morning, we got a text message, we apologized to our colleagues from twenty countries, parliamentarians, we watched their ridicule, where they say -- you Serbs in the Serbian parliament don't know anything about doing right, but your chairman sends you yesterday, and today he calls you a text message to come back. And not to say that we had to go to the front desk to ask the receptionist not to charge us for five days, as much as we were supposed to pay, and we didn't stay, to save this House those five nights, because we had to come back the same day. So these are some new humiliations because as an MP I am experiencing by the chairman of this parliament and I have to justify myself to my colleagues why something like this is happening in the Serbian Parliament. My colleagues have already made a proposal for you, which you should adopt, to call on the heads of parliament as chairman, which is also the rule in this House, to carry out consultations on everything. To hear more experienced than you, as well as our deputy president of the parliamentary group Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who has been in parliament for so many years and has something to teach you and to tell you, and then to schedule a new session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, and that this Parliament finally begins to do what the citizens of Serbia need and deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u42	Gordana Pop-Lazic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u43	Dear fellow Members of the People, I am sorry that after 18 years of the development of parliamentaryism and multilaterals in this country we are back at the beginning. I am convinced that Mr. Krkobic has been informed in the same way about this session as the rest of us. He can confirm that for himself. Because obviously there is no democracy in this country. There are some oligarchs, there are some party leaderships who make decisions on how the state authorities will work. Probably yesterday, in the late afternoon, somewhere in an office, some party president or two or three of them headed by these parties, they agreed on who would be president of the assembly and that this could happen today. I think the lady who was proposed for nothing went to the hairdresser today, because today we won't be able to choose the president of the assembly. - Galama. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u44	I ask you for a little silence that the MP can normally present the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u45	I don't mind that. I've had enough experience with that. It is certain that we have been legally invited to a constitutive session held on 11 June. The session is scheduled for five points of the agenda. Here, Chairman, you interrupted that session after the first item of the agenda. If you ask yourself a question why, you'll give an easy answer - because you didn't know who would be president of the assembly, you didn't have any suggestions for a possible candidate for National Assembly president. Now I'm asking you -- how did you know yesterday afternoon who would be running for National Assembly President, if you got this proposal on today, because here he is being seduced here at the Assembly Office on June 24th. So you couldn't schedule this session, you didn't have the material on which to schedule that session. It is truly sad that we have come into this situation and that no one has taught you, although at least I am burdening you, because I allow you not to know it, but those who prepare you for this session, and I don't mean here or there, are also powerless, are powerful those who are trying to create or have already created a congregation majority for the formation of a new government, which is absolutely not interested in the Constitution of this state, nor are the laws of this state, and neither is this lower legal act, which is our constitution, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. With the right of fellow MPs to go out for a pay phone, and you do not feel that it is necessary to respond to all their objections, although you are a member of Sections 100, paragraphs 3 and 4. That is what the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly undertakes. For this reason, I will read to you this article, paragraph 100, and I will read: "The President of the National Assembly is (you are the chairman in this case, but this Rules of Procedure applies to you) to explain afterwards." Why don't you give no explanation to the MPs who make objections here? Are you unable to do so or are you not showing any respect for your colleagues, believing that they are not worthy of your explanation? I believe that is precisely because of the following attitude 4, which says: "If, even after the President of the National Assembly's explanation, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without a search, decide on the issue in the day of the vote." Now I ask you again, what kind of voting day, and when can you schedule a voting day? So you've brought this congregation into a truly unembarkable situation. We are gathered here today to have a little chat and to show the public of Serbia how you imagined to run this country in some future period, you hope for a four-year period, and I believe, as you started, you won't last until New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u46	National MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u47	Dearly beloved, I'll be very brief. In the meantime, in order to spare the chairman, I wrote a few thesis. If we're already bidding on how anyone was informed about today's follow-up to the first session, I'm barely informed, because I didn't have a signal where I was, and I was in the basement, pay attention, not Bodrum, the basement. Coming to this honorable gathering, I've had the opportunity to meet our pretty cooked fellow citizens and ask them one question and one question. The question was, "Did you vote in these parliamentary elections? Indeed, in 90% of the cases, the answer was yes. I didn't ask them to plead. The question was: "Do you know what is happening today in the Serbian Parliament? ". At almost the same rate, the answer was negative, although it was only a flash poll in the pass. The explanation of this – "no, I have no idea what's going on" – is worth mentioning in this very home. "I don't know, because nobody's asking us anything, we voted free of charge when some underground talks are being held," people say. Or, "When red and yellow make a government, the people don't have a green light for life." The most extreme was a man of his 50s, who said, "As these quasi-Europeans have agreed, we have no more presidents, no more prime ministers, no more Parliament, no more government, all we need is to listen to foreign ambassadors, both our MPs and our shadow ministers, and we will also prescribe laws from the EU, so we don't need a president of the Assembly." I don't think we need an unnecessarily president of the assembly. Respecting the fact that it is the Supreme Legislative Institution, I think it is really important to whom it will be entrusted. The president of the assembly is practically the second person of Serbia to be important. I am not so clear as to why the election of the president was so hasty and why the candidacy of the current candidate was kept secret by the people and our MPs. Are these MPs divided into peoples, i.e. peoples and these pro-European, or non-national? Is the strategy "hit fast and in secret" the result of paranoia "just so the enemy doesn't know", and is that the people's enemy? It is extremely inappropriate for people and MPs to inform newspapers and various "siens" in Serbia, such as B92, about the candidate for National Assembly president. It is even more interesting that the current chairman does not have the authority to call a session on such an important issue as the Constitution. The independent state of Kosovo and EULEX mission, which is why the president of Serbia, who is otherwise an amateur state of law, taps him on the shoulder. If, excuse the expression, he is retired to the Kosovo and Metohija issue in Serbia, how come he is reviving suddenly on the election of the president of the Serbian Parliament? Maybe the coalition, which looks like a traffic light, because it has both red and yellow and green, has given artificial breathing to the current chairman and has given him back the elan vital; or perhaps the fact that the candidate psychiatrist was crucial. The first man in Serbia, who likes to be one man band, takes the authority of both the president and the prime minister, and the president of the assembly, and the baker, and the doctor, and the free builder, and the pharmacist, is a psychologist. The first man of the congregation should also have a little bit of a strengthened fact as a psychiatrist. Does someone under the grains put the thesis that we're crazy and that Serbia should be run by Big Brother, and we're just relaxed to push this button at a traffic light, take the kids to Akvalend, buy them, as some of our nieces, in Zara and Springfield, and then "cultify" the people, because our life can't wait? Neither Serbia is crazy nor politically illiterate. Citizens expressed their will in the elections and did not authorise us to retire and play "three palm trees on the island of happiness". Inform Serbian citizens, the chairman, how is it possible to call this session to elect the speaker of the assembly, as the second most important person in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u48	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic will take his word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the ancient Greeks and the Romans felt that age implies wisdom, prudence and thoughtfulness, and our word "senat" comes from the Latin word Senex, which means old man. However, when I see how you behave today, I ask myself whether the ancient Greeks and the Romans were right. Mr. Krkobic, you are present at an informal gathering. This is not a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because the continuation of the constitutional session is not scheduled as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The informal assembly, in fact, cannot make any legally valid decision, and primarily cannot elect a president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In doing so, I am not going into whether you have a majority in this National Assembly or not. I'm not opening the question at all whether there's political morality in that majority. The people will say, when the time comes, whether it is moral for the people's followers of Draja Mihailovic and the followers of Nenad Chanka to go hand in hand. The people will say, when the time comes, whether it is moral to go hand in hand to those who delivered and killed Slobodan Milosevic in fact and those who allegedly were his followers. The people will say their word about it. I'm just distracting you, Mr. Krkobic, that you have usurped the rights of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You may not know what usurp is. I'll try to illustrate in a few sentences what this is all about. In 2000, I must, Mr. Krkobic, because obviously you do not understand, in 2000 the SRS and its President Vojislav Seselj took on one great scientific job to publish the summation of the works of our great lawyer, Laza M. Kostic. In his first book of Administrative Law, this Lisa M. Kostic cited to students a school example of what usurpation means. In the 18th century, in a German city, a cobbler declared himself chief of police and began allegedly giving orders to arrest people and to close shops, etc. Students, therefore, before World War II know what it is to usurp someone's legal authority. You don't seem to have it on your hands. You, Mr. Krkobic, have suddenly become a politician of European implementation overnight. A few days ago, we could hear that PUPS and SPS are no longer the strength of the past, that you are not the bearers of the dark '90s. You are acceptable to Javier Solana as modern European Social Democrats, etc. Now I'm asking you, as a politician of European implementation, is this how the British Parliament works? Is this how the French Parliament works, German, Italian, Spanish, etc? These are your big political role models. When they call in text messages to continue the constitutional session of the British Parliament, French or German, then you will have the right to do the same. I invite you, Mr. Krkobic, to answer to the MPs whether this is a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Can we at this session make any legally valid decision or do we sit here, chat and talk in the wind? It would not be good, Mr. Krkobic, to look up to some of the infamous figures of Serbian history that they took for granted to be tyrants, usurperers and bullys. Serbia and the Serbian people have never remembered such people for good. You're many years old. Your years commit you, first of all, to be a man of authority, to be a man of truth, and not to allow shame to be the reputation of the most important Serbian institution, which is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u50	The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I now want to actually address the professional services of the National Assembly and that part of the professional services that are under the direct command of yellow dictator Boris Tadic. Unfortunately, we do not have a parliament, although the elections are almost over, although the people chose their representatives. We, in communication with the people who are supposed to lead this parliament, have a serious problem, i.e. to chair the president's election, we have a serious problem because every question that MPs ask, not only today but these days, and every question that the public asks, we have answers, say professional services like this, say professional services. Never before, ladies and gentlemen, such a thing has never happened. Professional services are doing their job, and I ask the most beautiful people who listen to the yellow dictator Boris Tadic, let them do it on Krunje Street, let them choose and let them do it on Andric's crown, and in this House must be respected first and foremost by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In Article 100 of this Rules of Procedure, Section 3, several of my colleagues reminded of paragraph 3, says the president of the National Assembly is obliged to make explanations afterwards. This "after that" refers to the MP being obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure, in his opinion, was injured when he called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We have here today some fifteen MPs who have pointed to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, which are minors from Article 1 to the last member of this Rules of Procedure, and we have not received a single answer. You are under obligation, Mr. Chairman, that whoever told you to gather us together this way, and otherwise I don't mind what we saw today, say hello, talk to you. But there was no need for someone to invite us to this kind of sighting. We could have done it informally somewhere else. We must not destroy the dignity of the National Assembly. The dignity of the National Assembly is collapsing exactly the way it is shown here today. We insist that it does not comply with the Rules of Procedure's scheduled session. We insist that at this point, we do not know how many MPs are in the O.R. We keep showing that we don't know how many MPs were in the O.R. when, I don't know, I don't know what to say, an open sequel to what you're trying to call a session, and we're saying this isn't a session of the National Assembly, and we're not getting any answers to our questions. Of course, we don't ask all that because we don't know. We know we're right. We know you've done all these injuries to the Rules of Procedure that we talked about today. We want the citizens of Serbia to know what awaits them as of today, what awaits them when Boris Tadic takes his stick into his hands and when it comes to the government. You see, the Assembly is already in order to "administer", which is waiting for citizens of Serbia when the new government is formed, which will be under Boris Tadic's patronage. That's why we insist on all these injuries and please, Mr. Chairman, consult one of these men in the professional service, to suggest or explain to us who authorized them. Here, my specific question for Parliament Secretary - did Mrs Tamara Stojcevic get a warrant from Boris Tadic to inform MPs' secretaries that they are notifying the MPs that something is going to happen today? Because neither of us knew the agenda, nor what we were meeting for, nor did we get anything in writing? So please get an answer to that question. There are only ten minutes left until the end of work today. In that period, Mr. Bosko Ristic, I know you don't respect the Rules of Procedure. Madam Radeta, time. I'm done, I'll be done by six, don't worry. So, I know how you, Mr. Ristic, respect the Rules of Procedure, and we remember the time when you were chairman of the Administrative Board, when you kidnapped your fellow Members, so there were 308 MPs in the Assembly. You who can't do anything but go mad at flour all the time, which our people would say, you have no reason to. Nothing's funny, it's sad, it's poor Serbia while what's going on today is happening to her, while Boris Tadic leads us this way to the Assembly, and tomorrow to the government. Of course, Serbian citizens cannot expect anything better than that government, unfortunately, or the ruling majority in this parliament. We'll see, we're here to point to all your failures and we're very patient, Mr. Ristic, we have time, we won't leave you alone. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, you promised me you wouldn't throw away while I was at the assembly speaker, so much you couldn't stand it. (Chairman: Be kind, please.) ) I conclude, Mr. Krkobic, and once again I ask you, that you do not suffer criticism from other MPs, answer all these questions, you are bound by the Rules of Procedure to do so, and then let us see how and when we will continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u52	Ambassador Alexander Jankovic has a word. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: Aleksandra Jankovic, she was already. Then Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u53	Mr. Chairman, Dr. Jovana Krkobiæ, you asked us to address you, since we warned you that our colleague Paja Momcilov is a doctor, you said, and they don't call me either. I'm sorry, you're a doctor, and I need to tell you now what the first association is on your newly created coalition and on your behavior. In fact, you've found yourself in unguarded grapes, it's obvious, as a gentleman who presides and has that role, you may have thought at the first moment, when we've talked to you about a national government, a better future for all our citizens, for pensioners, to preserve our homeland, to defend Serbs with KIM, to fight together for the prosperity and better future of our people and all its citizens, and now after 15 days you've come into a situation where people connect you with Galatasara from Istanbul, because that champion of Turkey in football has these colors, red yellows, or to connect you with the forces of the past and chaos, and these others who are your coalition partners, mindlessness and, above all, the abductions and looting of the state and people. I don't see how you personally experience what you've found yourself in that situation and how time passes will get worse and more uncomfortable. I must warn you, given that I respect your calling and that you are in that place, however, as someone who has, I can freely say, another decade of parliamentary experience, that you are deeply mistaken. First, you are now in one situation to sit in the position of the President of the Assembly as chairman without knowing what is going on here. Mr. Jovan Krkobic, there are people in the hall who are MPs. First, explain to us, on what basis you've established that there are so many of us in the O.R. If you look, you'll see on the electronic voting system that stands for number 80. First of all, that's not true. Bosko Ristic was at the time of chaos and madness of Dosovski forces, when he wrote the preamble of the Constitution he had never completed, and then he voted for this current constitution, so he attacked constitutional provisions and acted as if one man who was the first legal profession would not behave, and secondly, who claims to protect the right and highest legislative authority, he had just insisted that MPs have identification cards on him, which the former president of the Assembly would say - identification cards - she thought it was something - in and, so she said identification, and in fact it was about identification. We need to identify ourselves and know who we are, and we can't do that. Here's why. It's not just the reasons of technical nature, it's this chaos that's created by such a coalition. Mr. Krkobic, we don't have those valid cards at all first. We're in temporary parliamentary status in this room today and we have temporary identification cards, and some of us don't have it, because, as anyone has managed. First, the services did not have enough time for those MPs who had brought their photos in the first day, when mandates were verified, to finish the job. Last time we waited three or four months for Oliver Dulic to sign our parliamentary IDs, and now we are in a position to attend something that happens in a home, or in a building of the National Assembly, in one of its halls, because we have that ceremony and this one as a workpiece, which is the product of this real socialist time, because we are eight meters below ground in the basement, as counterpart Jankovic would say. We are now thinking about what we are here and what this is expensive. On our side, you can see that our faces, though, even though this is a difficult situation, even though we know that great uncertainty awaits us, especially with such a government, are bright. For what? Because we know that the people are looking at us Serbian radicals and knows that we are going to fight for their rights, and pensioners, and farmers, and workers and all those who have lost their jobs. And because you're going to have a lot of trouble in such a way as to handle the session, and above all, to explain to the citizens that you called them in an election campaign to fight for their rights, to justify it by such bad actions and such a humiliating, non-dignifying attitude towards us as citizens have chosen. Don't think the citizens don't see it now. We've all come from some environments, we're all sovereigns, the people have passed on to us their right to represent their interests. How do you think the citizens who see you, in the right sense of words, and the competent services that drag you into it and this yellow coalition of yours, thus handling a session which, by the way, is now interrupted by work, because it's minutes to 18 hours... (President: Dear Miss Jovanovic, it's time. Yes, it is time, for two more minutes, we can attend today what is supposed to be called the congregation. I would ask you, since we do not have the opportunity because we do not have these valid identification cards, Mr Krkobic, that in the remaining three minutes, however, to keep this recorded, establish how many MPs attended today's session, if that is what you can call it. That's what you were obliged to do first at 4:00, when you invited us in and in such a way... (President: We tried that, so you made us impossible. ) They have informed you that the system for electronic identification of the number of MPs is probably not right, and on the other hand, I am telling you in reality that the MPs who are physically present in the hall have no cards to identify themselves. Let's start with that first lesson, start in a row, but today's the time for that. So, we can do that some other day, when you're properly scheduled to proceed to this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-06-24-0.u54	Here you go, Mr. Ivica Dacic. He gave up. ) Mr. Zoran Krasic has a word. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: There can be no more words, it's 18 hours. ) Here you go, Mr. Ristic. (Tomislav Nikolic, from place: The session takes up to 18 hours. )
