ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5865	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 139 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 103 MPs are present at the Hall, or more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the sittings to be attended by Mr. Janko Guzian, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs. Ruzica Stoiljkovic, assistant director of the Treasury Administration. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly, in order to allow his participation in the work. You have been presented with the Report of the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the mandate to the MP. Also, you were presented with the Report of the Administrative Committee, which found that conditions had been met to confirm the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament finds confirmation of the mandate to the MP. On the basis of the Report of the Republic Election Commission and the Report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia - Boris Tadic. I congratulate the MP on his election, and I urge him to enter the O.R. I would also like to inform you that the constituents, please wait for me to finish, I have seen, just wait for a few notices, the committee sessions will be held today, at 11:15 – the Committee on Science and Technological Development, at 11.30 – the Committee on Local Self-Government, at 11.45 – the Committee on Presentations and Proposals, at 12 – the Committee on Transport and Relations, at 12.15 – the Committee on Urbanism and Construction and at 14 hours – the Committee on International Relations. Please take part in the work of these committees. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. THE YEAR AND AMENDMENTS AND ADDITIONS OF THE 2008 FINANCIAL PLANS YEAR: THE REPUBLIC FUND FOR PENSION AND INVALIDIAN GOVERNMENTS, NATIONAL JOBS AND THE REPUBLICAL SURVEILLANCE SURVEILLANCE SURVEILLANCES (SPECIFICS) According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Slobodan Maras first appeared, and then Mr. Aligrudić Milos, and Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5866	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, I am reporting in accordance with Article 225, and in relation to Article 198, it means the relationship between the Assembly and the Government. Today is Thursday, today is the cabinet session, and today I call on all the media, and also the MPs, first of all, you, the President of the Assembly, not to allow the deception that is being made, the deception that the review of the story that we have started, the stories that we have started with regarding "Srbiagas" and "Yugorosgas" and to place dust on that story by the government. That story can't be concluded. We heard from ministers who directly participated in the most harmful contract for the state of Serbia, which damaged Serbian citizens, which is the contract concluded with "Yugoros". I have here an accounting number, signed by the Minister of Naumov and the text, that is, the Treaty on Trusting in Action of the General Interest of Jugorosgas. So, what the former minister, Mr Velimir Ilic, said, that Serbia had no money, here in the assembly hall, is the most severe violation of this assembly's dignity, since annual production, or daily production of oil, where oil, gas and everything else, in the state of Serbia, is 14,400 barrels, times 67 dollars, that's 900 and a few thousand dollars. Five-day production could have covered the purchase of 25% of Jugorosgas. What she tried to do the other day, the G17, to turn the story in another direction, accusing Saša Ilic of signing a 700m-dollar contract, only proved that the commission was 35m euros. Here I have a document signed by Milos Milankovic, director of "Srbijagas", signed and stamp, addressed to the Ministry of Energy, which we will share with all journalists, which is said to be more economically favourable to "Gasprom". My people, the director of "Srbijagas", Vice-President of Jugorosgas; in "Serbia" - 3,000 euros, in "Yugorosgas" - 9,000 euros. Whose interests is he defending? Listen to this, 'economically preferable' for Gazprom to make gas supply to certain countries through a daughter company, which is the usual practice of Gazprom. Whose interests did he defend? Furthermore, what President G17, Minister Dinkic, tried to deceive the public, by saying that the Russians were seeking, Milos Milankovic speaking, anything with signature and seal, the Minister of Energy said – we would especially like to point out that there was no pressure from the Russian side in terms of making an unfavourable contract from the existing one, but the conclusion of a contract with "Yugorosgas" explains the already mentioned practice, economic reasons and protecting the large investment "Gasprom" in capital energy facilities in Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5867	Time, Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5868	Don't take the time, we'll talk about the amendments. We'll talk about what Milos Sarancic, director of the public company, did, bought a 2.2m-euro car.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5869	Mr. Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5870	We'll talk about those amendments. Don't shut up, don't shorten the story.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5871	Please, you insist on respecting the Rules of Procedure. You speak for three minutes and 30 seconds. You have referred to article 198, and you know that at this stage, parliamentary issues are not allowed. Therefore, I can understand your desire to send certain messages, but respect the time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5872	This wasn't a parliamentary question. I respect the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5873	But you called for article 198.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5874	Yeah, I'll get back to you, look at the thickness of this, we'll talk about it a lot today.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5875	Mr. Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5876	Article 27, which applies to you. You continue to interpret the Rules of Procedure in such a way as to give the word for breach of the Rules of Procedure only when you open the agenda point, although the session of Parliament has begun the moment you determine the working quorum. From that point on, I guess there's a possibility of a breach of procedure, so someone might be calling for a breach of procedure. Should we wait for the agenda to begin to notice whether, or not, or someone else, you have violated the Rules of Procedure? So much for that. The second basis is Article 104 and refers to the head of the DS Parliamentary Group, i.e. Hope Kolundji. Mrs. Nadi Kolundžija would be better off communicating with us through a pay phone, and I call on her to do so regularly when she disagrees with what is being brought here and when she thinks she should defend the interests of a certain group in Parliament, which is still to be said, rather than taking journalists in the halls and making statements there, as in one daily list, that, let's say, one group...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5877	Excuse me, Mr. Aligrudic, the term "via" for your colleague, indeed, is not in line with you and your degree of education.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5878	Thank you. He's chasing reporters down the halls. So, when it comes to this, she says that one group of MPs spoke so that she spoke offensive words at the expense of MPs and MPs, as well as at the expense of the entire categories of citizens, which meant the category of citizens of pensioners, and the MPs she spoke of, in fact, were my colleagues and I. Is it possible that Jovan Krkobibic represents 1.7 million pensioners in Serbia? Is it possible that, when anything that is true is said, as offensive as it is to those who are told, it will shake or force 1.7 million pensioners in Serbia to identify themselves with this small group sitting here with the head of the group, which is now in the ministerial chair, which has run the pension fund for decades, which we know has ended before Milosevic, let alone during Milosevic? The same group of people who organised various trips to Kadinjaca in 2000 and so on, tried to organise pensioners to vote for Slobodan Milosevic, the same group of people who were hard-core about the system run by Slobodan Milosevic in the 1990s, the same group of people who managed to destroy the pension system and pension funds?- I'm sorry. Then the president of the largest ruling party, Boris Tadic, agreed with them to build power, agreeing to a 70 per cent pension increase, which is unreal, so that in the end, we heard the president of the state and the president of DS Boris Tadic himself yesterday, say it was unrealistic, that this 70% is unrealistic and that there is nowhere in the world, but that, since we promised to do so, perhaps one day we will. Of course, it was preceded by Krkobic himself, who delayed the whole thing until 2010. This is a matter of trust. And when it comes to insulting, when it comes to who's hurt here, they're hurt, first of all, by those who are light, and we can't insult those we say are liars. How can that be an insult? I can't figure that out. I can't figure out how we can transmit that so-called. An insult to 1.7 million citizens. These people are watching us now. Trust me, pensioners at 10.25 are watching us all here. Now I can ask them all openly. Is it when we say that Jovan Krkobbiæ, along with Boris Tadic, a liar, is that something that offends them? I doubt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5879	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5880	Presidents, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, reporting by way of an article. 225 and 226. Just eight days ago, I asked the government -- who is co-owner of the Jugorosgas company, the 25% bought by Ali Shen, who is located in Vienna, and I didn't get an answer until today. Meanwhile, we learn that the Russian side does not want to invest 500m euros in modernising our oil industry, but suggests that credit be taken and the loan is guaranteed by NIS assets. Everything that's going on in the field of energy puts us in a position to really think that someone is working against this country's interests. I'm not a lawyer, I've spoken to some lawyers and asked them if it's possible in all these activities that we've witnessed in the past months to find elements of high treason, if such a crime exists. Some said no, some said yes. Let me remind you, despite the fact that the Committee on Industry asked the government not to collect gas, or to return the price of gas to the previous level, the government did not. Let me remind you, Ural oil fell below $60. So all the parameters that determine the price of gas fall, only in Serbia sell the gas 60% more expensive. So, I insist that I be answered – which of the citizens of Serbia is co-owner of the company, which is why "Yugorosgas", firstly, is left to foreigners, in a majority package of 75% shares, and then introduced as a mediator? Which is why the Russian side does not want to invest its 500m euros in the modernisation of NIS, but rather wants to take credit, and does the 500m euros mentioned in the energy agreement, in fact, oil that the Russian partner, once he takes control of NIS, will be processed in NIS according to those poor economic standards, which he was provided for by signing the contract until 2012, and will we thus further develop NIS? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5881	When it comes to questions referred to in Art. In 225 and 226, there is no time limit within which the MP gets an answer, but I fully agree with you that this response should be timely and in accordance with some current moment, so that I, too, join your requisition today and I refer it to the government, or to the resolution ministry. I think that'll mean we'll speed up the answer for you. The word has Srboljub Zivanovic and then Đuro Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5882	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I want to meet this assembly and the public, citizens of Serbia, that a vandal act took place in the Vladimirs municipality tonight. I'd ask if the ladies could be touched to die.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5883	Please allow us to hear from Ambassador Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5884	There's been a vandal act. There was the burning of SRS rooms and the burning of the first floor of the Municipal Court in the municipality of Vladimirci. This happened because the SRS kept saying there was a connection, a symbiosis between authorities, politicians and the mafia, because in the municipality of Vladimirci is in the power of the SRS and the SPS. What is very important is to say that a criminal complaint has been filed against the former president of the municipality for abuse of office and for criminal acts he has committed in the previous period or committed. He is a member of the DS, but I must tell you that, in his interview, a citizen, or waste number one, as I call him, Tomislav Nikolic, with his political party, called for the vandal act to happen in the municipality of Vladimirci. That's why I'm asking the Ministry of the Interior and I'm asking that the defendants be found as soon as possible and that the penalties for such an act that has been inflicted on the citizens of the Vladimirs and the SRS. It's not the first time cases like this have happened, but we've always been over it. We thought an individual couldn't do that to the SRS. This time, the Municipal Committee and the SRS District Committee in Šapec will demand that the defendants be found and the most severe penalties. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the beginning of the reckoning, as you say, with the mafia and the crime. We'll see if you're right, and if it's a lie to switch words to deeds, because there's a large number of criminals in your ranks since the Five-Octobar Revolution, when you came to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5885	The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5886	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, injured member 104 by the current minister, Mr Skundric. On the Energy Committee, he agreed that this document, the "Serbiagas" notice, that he wanted to buy 25% of the "Yugorosgas", owned by the "Progressgas Treying", was not found in the Ministry of Energy. It's an absolute lie. Since we are, however, a state, in every country, the documents that someone sends, and especially a public enterprise, the Ministry, are there. He was deceived by his assistant, Mr. Svedovic, who was not allowed to come to the Committee for the second time. In that same decision of the Srbiagas Management Board, Mr. Svetovic is obliged and is obliged to implement the Srbiagas decision. That's the man who was the Assistant Minister of Energy in the last session. That's the man who's now the assistant minister of energy. It's a man who has to go to jail. Now I'm going to tell you why other NIP funds, worth 11.1m euros, were allocated to the Banat Court for the creation of an underground gas storage facility. Because "Srbijagas," and that's what we're going to ask, too, Mr. Milankovic, has contracted with "Mola" in Hungary, where we store gas. Everyone who understands one another knows that gas storage is the most expensive item. That's why we needed the Banatski Court. The tender for the Banatski Dvor is being launched, however, with the skillful hand of Assistant Salesman, the tender does not appear to be for the 'Banatski dvor', but has been added and the construction of pipelines and gas pipelines of work pressure over 16 etc.... Ladies, Banatski Court. Those 11.1m euros, instead of going to the construction of the underground gas storage facility "Banatski Dvor", to end the installation of the pillow gas, are invested there, and that Serbia can store, in order to have gas in difficult moments, not to depend on Hungary, we come into a situation that someone, by heavy abuse, has transferred funds to build a pipeline, given them to firms that have competed in the tender, and how he has called tenders, and that's what we're going to talk about. Minister Skundric deceived us, lied that this document does not exist. This document exists at the Ministry of Energy. "Serbigas" asked him to buy 25% "Progressgas Treding" and, indeed, I call on the public not to allow deception, not to allow this story to be pushed under the carpet. Serbia's interests are severely damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5887	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5888	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I appeal to the article. 225 and 226, although I don't know, given what I'm going to say, from who to ask for a notice, because all democratic principles, starting with the authorities of the local self-government, to this theft of the mandate of the SRS in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, are collapsed under DS and directly controlled by Boris Tadic and his orders to do so. That the intention of Tadic, Manter and Wardsworth was, in early September, to conduct a coup in the SRS through the recruitment and training, along with domestic tycoons, Tomislav Nikolic and Alexander Vukic, is now clear to the sparrows on the Serbian branch and citizens, who have seen their intentions, their thief and mobsters, everywhere and in every place, and also in Vladimirs. But for you, gentlemen of the DS, and you, Mrs. Kolundjia. If you're always talking, and you're holding that handful of Quasi-Embassies, who can be in the U.S. Congress, if Manter takes them there, then explain to me, please, where is the awareness that you're doing this to the entire public, who is accusing you, because they're just your catchphrase, when in such a brutal way the DS government kidnaps the premises of the SRS? He's in Batocina in power of the DS. The president of the municipality is a certain Radisa Milosevic, called Duda, and that is the real reason for the duduk. I don't know if there's a better Serbian term for someone, for that phenomenon, than that Duda is, or a duduce. Mrs. Kolundjia, I don't know, you represent some DS official, because you wouldn't, I don't suppose, be the head of the Parliament Group, explain to me how it's possible that SRS rooms in the center of Batocina, a party that has five council members in that municipality, that duduk and one of his, I don't know, but what's the name of the other, the president of the Assembly, are assigned to use that apostate group, excluded from the SRS? So, for 11 years, we've been using the offices we've been paying rent for. We based Serbia's Telecom consumer relationship in 1998 on the Serbian Radical Party. We're paying electricity bills neatly. Explain to me, please, how is it possible for you to behave in this way, and to advocate, allegedly, that we have some correct relations with you, to arrange this or that? We can't make a deal with you, because you're an autocratic party and a government that wants to rule in such a way. Citizens, not only Batocins, but also Vladimirs and every city in Serbia where your leaders behave in this way, will know that they will return it to you. They've seen your intentions. They are now completely irrelevant to them, because they see who they are and what they are and they have already begun to grab their own necks. In that celebration, the other day, they were fighting and slapping each other and kicking each other in ten cities in Serbia. But where the DS has taken responsibility to exercise power, as in Batocina, to kidnap an office by the decree of a man, it will end as well as the kidnapping of the term of office in Kragujevac – in front of the court in charge. They will have to, Mrs. Kolundjia, and if you think we won't fight to the end, you're wrong, because we're there, as in all of Serbia, a respectable force and no Serbian radical, that's what Vojislav Seselj taught us, he'll never let anyone hit him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5889	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5890	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, respected citizens of Batocina, you know who your president is. There's no need for me to defend the president of the Batocin municipality from the Assembly's pay phone, it's best done by the citizens of Batocina, May 11th. Miss Jovanovic, Mr. Radisa has shaken you up like a doll.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5891	I'm sorry, what member did you call in? Srdjanmilivojjevic: Article 104. The Rules of Procedure - a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, because the President of Batocin Municipality has been brutally offended here, all those citizens of Batocina who voted largely for Radisa in those elections were brutally offended. I really cannot allow the president of the municipality, a successful municipality, which has a large number of foreign investments, perhaps the largest in Serbia right now, to be insulted in such a harsh way. Please, if you insult the president of a municipality where foreign investors are coming, you insult all the people who voted for this man, you insult all those investors who come to Batocino and invest there right now, you insult all people who think Batocina and Serbia are a good place to invest. You say now to all those who watch the broadcast, foreign diplomats, people from the world - there are some duds in Serbia in power, don't invest there, go to Bulgaria, and invest, go to Hungary. We in the DS love Serbia, and we believe that here we need to invest and support those people from the DS who are successful, proven, capable and who can develop their municipalities the way Radisa does in Batocina. If you have problems within your divorce case, please resolve it in court, address the official judicial authorities, do not harass the citizens of Serbia and do not insult the successful people of the DS. Because when a pumpkin cracks, it never cracks on flat slices, usually that girl seeds, usually leaks that rotting content that isn't for food. Please solve your problems in court, but do not insult those who successfully lead their municipalities and this country. Thank you. Replica, Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5893	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can only talk to serious people about serious matters. I'm counting on Mrs. Kolundji to be a serious woman and I've seen, from your reaction, that you too condemn such an act of kidnapping party rooms to a party that has been parliamentary for many years, since 1996 in the Batocina municipality. As far as my former colleague is concerned, I know that "the gate of the forest" is a nice place. By the way, it's a bar at the entrance to Batocino. Why don't you come over there and eat yourself and stick some kebab, burger, hanger or something? Continue to host at the expense of a certain Radiša Milosevic, called "Duduk". Honorable and honest people live in Serbia, and in certain municipalities, such as Batocina, there are DS thieves, led by a certain Dud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5894	Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5895	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize to the President of the Assembly, because what I'm about to point out is likely to go beyond this subject, but I have to tell you that I received some important information during the night. I thought I'd let you know about it later, but when the gentleman in question talked about the birthplace of a man, Batocin, who didn't deserve to be talked about, I have to tell you that a monkey arrived from Subotica to Batocino the other day. I ask the question of both the Ministry and the Government - to see how a monkey could arrive from Subotica to Batocino? There are indications that he sometimes, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, or citizen, "waste" number one, sometimes this monkey walks through the Assembly. That's why I'm asking for an urgent review of how this monkey came from Subotica to Batocino, or from Batocina to Belgrade, so that he can walk around the Assembly with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5896	Mr. Zivanovic, you have apologized in advance, but I ask you and all MPs to take care of the terms you use. Mr Milan Škrbić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5897	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not have the custom to go out on the lines, nor for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but the speaker who spoke before SRS spoke encouraged me to when he praised the mayor of Batocina and the great investment Batocina received. I'll try to explain to you, for the sake of the public and the citizens of Serbia, how these investments are going, and I reported to you by article 104 because he hurt his dignity because he wasn't telling the truth. To wartime disabled people in the Apatin municipality, where I come from, from a Japanese donation, a commission that was in Apatin has assigned 35 apartments. The location is defined, the infrastructure was brought in, all about the cost of the municipality. A couple of times they came and suddenly, there was no one left, and it's been three years since. To my question, what happened to that, twice after this pay phone, by Minister Lalovic, and so on, I never got an answer. In the meantime, I learned that this donation from the Japanese government, in the form of 35 apartments for wartime military disabled, went to the Indji municipality. Why does the great mayor of Indjia push everything and then he turns out to be the most capable mayor, the best mayor, because everything goes and everything is directed towards the Indji municipality?- I'm sorry. It was all directed to the municipality of Zrenjanin in its own time, so you can see how that mayor ended up. I wonder, is the mayor of the municipality of Indjija, Mr Jesic, the next on the counter-crime charge announced by DS President Boris Tadic? Is it the Indji municipality where many of the malfeasances that are happening will be revealed? This will determine the investigation and consistency of what is the president of your party, the DS, said, and we are waiting to see how long this will take and whether the municipality will, in general, come to that investigation. Investments are received exclusively by the large mayors of the DS, because they are members of the ruling coalition and are so forced by these municipalities that they become mayors only because of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5898	The People's Messenger Milorad Krstin, then Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, where it is said - MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. National MPs are obliged to address one another with respect and are not allowed to use offensive statements, as well as to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. Mr. Milivoevich, you're defending some of the city's presidents. I don't know why you don't solve the question between Pajtic and Goran Knezevic, between Pajtic and Nikola Kalas, why don't you solve the question between Pajtic and Tomica, a province MP? I'm talking about the Zrenjanin municipality. Don't let me open a newspaper every morning and see that a DS member of the Zrenjanin municipality has been arrested again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5900	MP Suleiman Spaho, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5901	I'm referring to Article 104. I went out to say that Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic is making some assumptions and saying that DS loves Serbia. Is it possible, Mr. Srdjan, that DS loves Serbia and the others doesn't? Here, I, far more like Serbia than all of you, as far as DS is concerned. I gave a lot for this Serbia when it was supposed to, I went to fight, to defend the Serb brothers from the Ustasha knife, and I will go away forever. Such people, and there are others in your party, love Serbia. Don't go out and talk about who loves Serbia. Serbia is loved by one who has proved it by his work, and you have proved nothing since 2000. What did you do? Burn, steal and still steal. You like Serbia? You love Serbia until the last dinar. I love her and I don't have what others have, those near Batocina; yesterday we showed here what they have. They swore to Serbia and I trusted them, but unfortunately, someone always cheats. Now he has and loves Serbia, just like you, Mr. Srdjan. Serbia only loves works. Do not go out again, anyone, to say that Serbia prefers this side or that side. Serbia also loves to help national minorities. Serbia loves each other, Madam President, and when you get a letter from the Roma who wants to tear down the house. These people need help to love Serbia, to love the people. I've been trying to tell a man with five family members for a month now. That Mr. Vito knows well, and I'll ask him, if he can, to go to Alexine and see, to help that family. I beg you all, and I beg you hard, I do not like to beg you, help this family, help Serbia, and they are Serbs, only other nationalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5902	Mr. Free Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5903	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Presidency, Madam Minister, Members of 225 and 226. I wanted to inform the public, and at the same time to call the government to be responsible, to first remove the mediator, which was the requirement of the LDP and the Industry Committee, to remove the gas broker between Serbia and Russia, to remove Jugorosgas from the burden of Serbian citizens. I repeat, according to Minister Skundric, the value expressed in euros, which Serbian citizens will have to pay for this gas increase, is about 35-40m euros. It is the same value taken by Jugorosgas for its intermediation, Jugorosgas, which is mostly owned by the Russian state; 25% -- a Turkish firm from Vienna, owned by Turks, who works for Gazprom, 50% -- Gazprom and 25% – Jugorosgas. We don't need a middleman. The second thing that's very important, which the government has to do, and it's urgent, since it's the founder of the "Serbiagas" is to do everything in its power that the director of "Serbigas" is no longer at the post of Vice-President of the "Yugorosgas" because he gets three times the salary there. In whose interest does he work, if he gets three times the salary at the firm where he is vice president, a company that is not owned by Serbia? Whose interest does he work for? Of course he'll work for the interests of a company that pays him three times as much. We expect the government to take another move, that from the post of Assistant Energy Minister Milutin Salesnovic, the most responsible for Serbia's lack of its own share of 50%, the most responsible that is the misdirected 11.1m euros for the Banatski Dvor, which again brought us to the situation to store gas in Hungary. Also, I demand responsibility for whoever concluded such a contract with Jugorosgas to take gas on Beregov, at the Ukrainian border, that all the costs, all the dangers that are on the road, that gas leaks or anything else, are on the burden of the Republic of Serbia. We ask for responsibility and that whoever signed it responds because the storage of gas in Hungary is terribly expensive. One of them's taking a commission. So we call on the government to be responsible, to do everything in its power to protect Serbia's energy stability, to protect Serbia's citizens' budget, to abolish the mediator, not to allow the Serbian director to be at the same time Vice-President of Jugorosgas.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5904	Here you are, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5905	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the other day, the SRS MPs asked questions about the price chaos. I asked for an explanation – what is the Ministry of Trade doing, which measures, to settle prices on the market and to change the situation, because there has been an enormous increase in prices and individual profits, in this time and in these circumstances in which Serbia is located, the traders, which no one controls? Yesterday, Mr. Milosavljevic, at a press conference, when he spoke about the government's success in a hundred days, said he was in the service of citizens. "The action – market inspection in the service of citizens and businesses begins from this moment," said Minister Milosavljevic. What has the Ministry and Minister Milosavljevic been doing so far, which, from this very moment on, when no one has controlled it for years? What do merchants do, what are the margins and who profit here at the expense of consumers, at the expense of citizens? That is why I am asking for an explanation and a notice from Minister Milosavljevic – what is it that market inspection will take on prices, and you saw that wood cubic cost 50 euros and that 2800 dinars cost a cubic of corn? How come four kilos of corn should be sold to buy one egg? That's what we talked about last time. Ladies and gentlemen, the price on the market is against the law, the illegality and the thieving. It is known that we have thousands of market inspectors and thousands of tax officials who charge taxes from citizens, and what does market inspection do to us? Why does he allow prices to go wild without anyone controlling them? Please explain and inform – what have Minister Milosavljevic and the Ministry been doing so far, why have measures not been taken and what measures since this government arrived? Mr. Milosavljevic was also in that government. Therefore, what measures does the Government want and intends to take to bring the market price of flour, sugar, milk, corn, wheat and other products to Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5906	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5907	Why are prices in the environment, in EU countries, lower than certain agricultural products and food products than in Serbia where this is more expensive, and Serbia is an agricultural and agricultural country? So this is where the bastards take money from the pockets of our citizens, illegally.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5908	You have received the resignation of Vido Petrovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Administrative Board of the National Assembly on the examination of this resignation, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) has occurred. The Law on the Selection of National MPs and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 of Rules 2 and 3 of the same law, determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office, before the election of the elected MP Vido Petrovic, elected from the Election List for European Serbia – Boris Tadic, has expired. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. On the occasion of the abovementioned items of the agenda – Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008, with accompanying documents, you received amendments submitted to the Bill by the National MPs: Radoslav Mojsilović, Milutin Jelić, together – Miroslav Markić, Srdjan Špasović, Aleksandra Ilic, Aleksandra Janković and Zlata Djerić, together – Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovač, Arpad Fremond, Laslo Varga and Bajram Omiragić, Aleksandar Pejčić, Zoran Šami, Miloš Radulović, together – Željko Tomić, Žaljko Žaljić and Jovan Paljić, Arsen Djurić, Milan Dimitrijević, Zoran Nikolić, Svetlana Stojanović, Miroslav Petović, Milić, Milić and Milić, Miljažaž Radić, Milić, Milić, Milažović, Dragažić, Prižović, Prižović, Prižović, Prižović, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Drag, Draga Žradnović, Miražović, Miraž. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic, in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 5(3). It's a bill of law. Also, MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Radoslav Mojsilović, Mladen Grujic and Milutin Jelic, written down, withdrew the amendments to Article 5, sections 9, 14 and 19. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to the 1st Amendment. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10. Budgetary system law. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5909	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008, the division of 14. stands subsidies in the economy. It was 3,991,800, and I suggested that the economy, especially the food sector, should be increased by about two billion, which is 5,991,800 dinars. Then, the subsidies in agriculture were scheduled for 24,986,506,666 dinars, and I increased it by four billion, from 24, to 28 billion dinars. He doesn't think it's done enough. There are several reasons, but in order to make it clear to you what should be done, it should set out the objectives and measures of agricultural promotion in order for Serbia to increase its wartime production and average yields per hectare, which means that Serbia needs to improve subsidisation, stress, subsidisation and lending of agriculture, to increase the use of mineral fertilisers, to increase and modernise its port capacities and irrigation systems, to restore the Serb village, which has been abandoned for decades, and to advance rural infrastructure, to save what can be saved from Serbian livestock and to rebuild its livestock stock. It should bring a development strategy in which agriculture and the Serb village would play a key role, to realize that the development of agriculture and the Serb village is the key to development in the modern world and the main chance for Serbia, as well as to bring a series of measures that will lead to the achievement of these goals. These goals can be achieved if the state, with its legislative and control mechanism, fully stands behind the development of agriculture and the Serbian village. It may occur if measures are taken to control all agricultural production instructions, introduce mandatory land analysis and mandatory controls, which will not be corrupt, I repeat, which will not be corrupt. Then, to establish a public storage system and an information network that will provide a large agro-complex and a small farmer with all the necessary information regarding his country, seeds and crops. I'm going to look back a little bit on Serbia's 2008 agriculture analysis, which was done, and I'm going to present a fact regarding these subsidies. "Despite the intensive process of liberalising the prices of imports and exports of agricultural products, subsidies are still present to producers," so I will specify what percentages are for individual European countries. So they are 69% in Switzerland, the European Union – 34%, the US and Canada – 20% in the Czech Republic – 17th in Hungary – 12th in Romania – 24, Slovenia – 38, and only 5% in Serbia. This is another reason why in that section – subsidies in agriculture, I suggested that there be at least four billion dinars more than what you suggested. However, in this analysis that has been done, the key part, which is said to be, I am talking about the report, "The problem with the use of artificial fertilizer in Serbia is both the control and quality of fertilisers. There's no such thing as real control right now, and the inspection is corrupt.' Gentlemen, this report is from the Ministry of Agriculture. This leads to the fact that, even when our farmer uses fertilizer, the effects are quite small. We had in the Committee on Agriculture the answer of the Minister of Agriculture, in fact, its finding that in artificial manure were substances, which is sand. Now you see, when 50,000 tonnes are made that the agricultural producer should buy for about 29.830 dinars, and on the market already offers four thousand dinars, which is a subsidy, I am very interested. How is this a country, the Ministry of Agriculture managed to get 50,000 tons on the market and sell more expensive for 1,000 dinars per tonne? Then count you 50,000 tons and how much someone puts in their pocket. I heard from the Association of Farmers of Serbia, with Mr Stanisavljevic, and I ask – where are the four thousand tonnes that someone from Robne Reserve gave you in the wheat section. He says, we're still finding these bank certificates where we can get those four thousand tons anyway, so we can make an exchange of 1:2.5, or one kilo of fertilizer two and a half kilos of wheat. Now, let's move on to corn. It says this, the balance of some basic agricultural and food products for the 2008 economic year, and the estimate – corn, initial stocks – million and 300 thousand tonnes, production – 3,917,358 tonnes, available – 5,217,358 tonnes. Distribution: consumption for livestock and processing is 4,600,000, losing 90,000 tonnes, supplies and reserves – 527,358 tonnes and exports – no. Here is why this chaotic situation occurred in agriculture, as the past government banned exports from August to March, stockpiles of corn and wheat were created in 2008. This production, which was used in 2008 by warehouses, by the fact that the surplus, due to illicit exports, remained in warehouses, could not be sold, and then today you can find, in fact, the warehouse offers you a price of 6.5 to 8 dinars, although, of course, it is an offer on the market of 7.2 dinars. Believe me, I don't know, somebody do me a calculation, per hectare if I throw out an MPK 3 - 15. 300 kg, if you throw away 200 kg, if you include the combination, the spraying, the storage, to see where the agricultural producer is that can say, but now I've earned at least one dollar more per hectare. It is said that the agrarian has reached the lowest degree of intensity in livestock farming, participates in its social gross product with 36%, and then says, anything below 50% is a characteristic of undeveloped countries. Let's not talk here, from the pay phone, about how we are, by any chance, an undeveloped country. We're not too developed, but we're a developed country. It's your finding, and the Prime Minister, and individual ministers, who should be more concerned with this assessment. Now we're going to the orange surface by the way we use it. So it is said, in this table, since we are exhibiting in thousands of hectares, in 2002, the scale and the unprocessed ornanica – 156,000 hectares, in 2006, there were 248,000 hectares, and it is estimated that in 2008 there will be around 350,000 hectares. This indicator suggests that farmers, or farmers, registered agricultural landowners, peasants, paors, are no longer paid to work the land. It absolutely doesn't pay to work the country, because this is one maternal relationship to agricultural producers and it's not right. We're going to the cereal now. It is said that wheat must be sown, again we are talking about a minister who has made this analysis – wheat must be sown at 650,000 to 700,000 hectares in order for Serbia to constantly export 500,000 tonnes of bread grain, not to appear on the world market from case to case. If wheat were a strategic product and were to be sown in Serbia at 650,000 to 700,000 hectares each year, with a significantly better use of agrotechnics and artificial fertilisers, which would contribute to increasing the yield and up to five tonnes per hectare, Serbia could have at least 1.5 million tonnes of wheat each year. But just remember 2001, 2002, 2003, as the minister at the time said – don't sow wheat, we need as much fruit growing as possible, as much winemaking, because we don't need wheat. While the second minister, however, said in 2008, we should at least sow 650,000 to 700,000 hectares. The same was said by Ivana Dulic-Markovic in 2004, 2005 and 2006. The same was said in 2007 by Milosavljevic, Minister of Agriculture. How does Milosavljevic, of the Democratic Party, who spoke in 2007, now have a controversial story with Minister of Agriculture, now Dr Sasa Dragin? The conclusion is that the wheat must have, but the wheat will be like a grain of bread. Another indication that we have different arches about agriculture. Cattlemen. In Serbia, in addition to extremely favourable natural conditions, livestock farming is in a major crisis. The number of cattle in the last decade has dropped by an annual rate of 2% to 3%, and meat production has dropped by 600,000 tonnes, 90 years, 450,000 tonnes today. Then, the capital letters say, "Serbian livestock farming has been in the last 18 years, especially in the last eight years, ruined, destroyed and desolated." Declaration by the Minister of Agriculture. I really don't know what the government should do when an analysis like this is done by the Minister of Agriculture and proved that agriculture, as a carrier of Serbia's economic security, has fallen on a branch that can no longer endure, nor does one who deals with livestock farming, nor does he who deals with vegetables, nor does he who deals with warfare. He can't take it anymore. It just came to this fact that I read. If we have orange surfaces, they're simply unprocessed. I think you, ministers, would have to deal with the amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party's Parliamentary Group -- Dr Vojislav Seselj, based on this budget rebalance. Don't realize that we're only going out here to get to the voters, but we're going out with the facts, the numbers, the money, and we're showing how much inaction, in this budget rebalancing, we're late for subsidies; while you approve them, while you schedule, they're only staying for the next two months. I don't know what the Ministry will be able to do for these two months at all, and you know very well that you haven't started paying off, as Mr. Stegnic, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, has just arrived with subsidies until May 20th, with the registration of agricultural holdings, which follows them under those regulations that you have made. Therefore, gentlemen of the ruling yellow company, your traffic light is slowly shutting down, and this budget rebalance is also limited to agriculture. We'll wait to see, if that happens at all, let's see that new budget for 2009, and you, Madam Minister, have announced that it will be even more restrictive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5910	First, Mr Damjanovic reported to the Rules of Procedure, and then you, Mr Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5911	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't want to get back to you after the amendments started, but I couldn't help but say a few words about Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic's presentation. As vice president of the world organisation, as First Vice-President of the World Parliament of Roma, elected at the World Congress in Zagreb, 23-25, I have obligations as a man in charge of the Republic of Serbia, for the Roma community. We're in the 21st century today, we're in a democratic system, so, please, the most brutal in democracy is when we say - destruction. Well, we don't want to crash anymore. No more, as they say, one brain, no more committees. We're not going to crash. We're going to have to build. Why does this destruction apply only to the lowest factor of the public and to the Roma community? Is there in this country, in local self-government, other modes that we can apply, so that not only the members of the Brankovic Alexander family would tear down the house? Well, the easiest thing to do is to bring down those who don't have anything. This must not be done in democracy, we must have understanding and respect equally for all citizens in this Serbia. Even though my population is Roma, you can't tear it down. We've been torn down houses, not just here, and in other places, our media has been torn down, shut down, shut down. Well, please nice, which one do we have right then in this country? I appreciate Mr Milivojevic when he says -- we love Serbia, but we are part of Serbia, and you should love us, because we have fought for this Serbia, in history, even with the Serbian brotherly people. If nothing else, let's do the historical work we've contributed to. I just want to tell you how much Serbia loves you. The Serbian Radical Party, led by Dr Vojislav Seselj, what did it do? We didn't have sewers, plumbing, paved streets, electricity, it was terrible; to have an epidemic – an atomic bomb, to say, all over the city. She understood the SRS, Seselj invested millions of marks and now we have it, like all other citizens, and in one settlement of Roma and other, where there are about 20,000 Roma, we have everything like all the citizens of the city of Zemun. Please, we also did it in Batajnica, Surdulica, Bogojev, Deronja, Novi Sad – Bangladesh, and in Novi Sad - Roma rit, where there are many Roma. We did everything we could. We can't say we love without doing anything. If we love, we must respect and not crash. I ask Mr. Minister of Spatial Planning, Mr. Dulic, not to allow the home and house to be torn down, but to find another solution. Also, what I'm saying is that the World Organization that I'm vice president of is Decade Roma. We have a council for Decada Roma. I respect Mr. Djelic, who is a representative of the Decada Roma. Why am I not here? I'm a Roma, and I've been given the trust of 10 million citizens around the world to be a representative and a Decada, and we have a solution for Decada Roma and I'm not here. Come on, please, if we appreciate, love and respect national minorities, then let it be structurally respected there and make a contribution to how problems will be solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5912	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5913	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to you for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226, actually, I'm advertising to give full information. A few minutes ago, my esteemed counterpart, Skrbic, provided some information about the deployment of apartments from the government of Serbia's donation, in which context he also mentioned the unverified fact that the government built the largest number of apartments in the Indji municipality. Because of my colleagues, Škrbić, and mainly because of the wartime military disabled and, of course, you and the public, honourable fellow MPs, allow me to give full information as president of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In the context of the realisation of the project "Social Apartment for Wartime Military Disabilities, Construction of Apartments from the Government of Japan", a total of 326 million dinars, has been built 206 apartments. In Kikinda – 16 apartments, Novi Sad – 24, India – 14, Pancheva – 15, Belgrade – 50, Smedereva – 15, Loznici – 11, Kragujevac – 20, Nisu – 24, Leskovci – 10 and Kruševec – 23. Mathematics says the number of apartments built in the Indji municipality, out of the total number of apartments built from funds donated by the Government of Japan, is 6.7%. Cleanly, due to the feedback of counterpart Škrbić, and mostly because of the truthfulness and credibility, I would ask that we continue to use accurate data, or at least to ask the competent institutions for the right information. Here, I've been bound so much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5914	National MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5915	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I am pleased that MPs of the ruling majority also appear by article. Rules 225 and 226, since you intend to avoid in the new rules of procedure, to try to prevent MPs from reporting to these members, or to completely delete them. You can see that there's always time and need for someone to report to these members, whether they're in position or in opposition. First of all, I am reporting because I would like to draw attention to Mr Meha Omerovic that mathematics and statistics, unfortunately, when used in politics, are largely misused. I haven't followed this subject, but based on the data you've read, I can very simply conclude that the reasons that led someone to have, let's say, some archaics aren't acceptable to me. You said that India has 16 built apartments, and Leskovac has 10 built apartments. If you compare these two municipalities, the number of inhabitants, etc., then there is obvious disproportionateness. It is obvious that some of the reasons led those who built apartments to keep this figure in the Indji municipality and in Leskovac municipality. I know for a fact that the Jablani District, especially Leskovac, had an extremely large number of people who responded to the invitation of the Yugoslav People's Army, especially when there was a NATO aggression, that is, a crime committed by NATO towards the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Therefore, only those two figures say that some things, however, are not as you brought them out here. If you wanted to, because of the citizens and the MPs, you should have said – listen, on the basis of a donation that was so big and so big, we have established certain criteria, so to say what criteria they are, the number of people with disabilities or not. You know, you can't say with an obvious method -- we're going to give this much here, and now we're going to say it was completely impartial. I'm not saying it is, but when I remember what you're trying to do for the Indji municipality, how much it's media-produced and how much you're trying to represent that municipality as the most successful, etc., then I'm getting suspicious, because based on previous experiences, I can doubt it. Therefore, complete information would only be that, with the criteria that led you, you say exactly and precisely why the municipality received so many apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5916	National MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5917	Dear citizens of Serbia, apparently Mr Meso Omerovic did not understand me well. When I talk about these apartments, I have to say that in the municipality of Apatin, at the time of the unfortunate persecution of our Krajis, every 3.6 inhabitants in the municipality were exiled, a face avoided, that many people remained living in that area of the Municipality of Apatin, because they were bound by Krajina and the Krajina. To point out that Apat's is the biggest city in the world after Chicago and that there are a lot of refugees and exiled people left to live in Apatino. According to all the logic, the competitions, the Apaches were assigned 34 apartments. A delegation from the Government of Japan and representatives from Belgrade, at the time, I don't know who they were, were in Apatino, I attended the meeting; a location was set, all agreed upon, and infrastructure and everything, and suddenly everything stopped. No information was available to the municipalities until today. I went out twice for this pay phone, at the time he was Minister Lalovic, and I asked a parliamentary question – why, which is why, because people had already found out and were glad that they would get some apartments. I didn't get an answer a day or two, and I wonder why. Meanwhile, Indjia got it. That's what I was saying then, and I'm saying now. Minister Lalovic, his wife, who works in the House of Health at an Indjija facility, was the reason why the Indjia municipality got so much. You, Mr. Omerovic, were not at this place where you are now, you probably didn't even know it, I've been following it very well, and I know it, I've been here for six years. That's why I went out and asked, because they're asking these unfortunate people what's wrong with these apartments. They wander, walk down the street and talk to themselves, because they've lost everything in their homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5918	The word is Mr. Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5919	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I am also a wartime wartime disabled and president of the Association of Wartime Military Disabilities of Serbia, I have an obligation, first of all, for the sake of the citizens, but also for your sake, to ask you not to put problems of wartime disabled people as party problems, to bicker. That's the first one. Secondly, concerning housing construction from the government of Japan, 318 apartments were built and it is true that the municipality of Apatin was in the first part, but the commission formed by Mr Lalovic, you know which political option it belongs to, decided not to go to Apatin, but to go to Indji. The criteria for making apartments took care of the number of wartime military disableds and families of fallen fighters, and of 318 apartments, about 80% of the apartments were given to families of fallen fighters. It is true that the Apatin municipality has given its consent, however, it is not true that the current commission, or the current ministry, has done so before. The current ministry has implemented the process of building these apartments and are moving in these days. If we look at the archaic which is listed here as an example, which is the number of war participants, or the number of displaced, evasive persons, then Belgrade should get much, much more, and because of its response to mobilization, and also because of the number of members, i.e. Because of the users themselves, the wartime disabled and the families of fallen fighters. Unfortunately, only 50 apartments were built in Belgrade. It's impossible for one Apatin to get 34, although he should get 134 to solve all of them, and Belgrade only 50. So Apatin is in the plan for the next settlement, Apatin and 20 other cities, and the advantage of Apatin will be that it has both separate infrastructure and salary, but in the end, I would ask you to leave the problems of the military disabled, these are the people who are my colleagues. The families of fallen fighters are not the subject of debate in the Assembly. There will be a law on combat and disability protection very soon, hopefully, by the end of the year. This law provides for the establishment of a housing fund and all other things to improve the lives of all of us who defended the state when it was meant to. Then please show great consensus and let us pass that law. That's how you'll best help this population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5920	The word is made by the People's Messenger Marina Ragush, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5921	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting from article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which discusses the dignity of the National Assembly, or MPs. Paragraph 2 states that they are obliged to address one another with respect. Item 1 - to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. I really didn't mean to use the Rules of Procedure today to repeat something I said the previous day and something that is, in fact, in a political description of all parliamentary parties, but my colleague Dujovic, I don't know which time, motivated me to go out for this pay phone and repeat something that is Parliament's legality. Comrade Dujovic, it is not exclusive to talk about any category of society. You represent wartime military people with disabilities, and we respect that. We are all legitimate here to talk about all political issues, and all political issues are institutional, and that is the legality of parliamentaryism, debates in the National Assembly. I would ask you not to take away any foreigners here in the future, both ruling and opposition parties, the right to speak of the problems that make up the daily lives of the people in Serbia. Wartime military people as members of the SRS have, indeed, plenty. And indeed, we do our best to fight daily for the rights and better lives of these people. You cannot deprive us of the right to draw attention to what we will do specifically about these people in this assembly, for the assembly speaker, for the public, for the people of Serbia. Also, whether by asking for explanations or explanations from the government's representative, we try together to find a solution to a terribly vulnerable category of society, which is turned to the margin, not by our will, but by the will of the ruling majority. So, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, indeed, I appeal to both political culture and political morality. Floscula is terribly heavy, insecure, that you're talking about not being politically discussed here. All questions for this assembly speaker and how they have seats have their priorities, because in the state of Serbia absolutely nothing works. There's a system down in this country, and we're all here trying our best to lay the foundations of that system. It doesn't work because certain people are trying to introduce a dictatorship. Please, I apologize for taking too much time, ending the thought that in the future you're making sure that there are representatives of the people here and that everyone has a legitimate right to talk about everything behind this speaker, within the system's institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5922	The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5923	I'll be brief. I didn't mean to hurt anyone here, tell them what to do in the Assembly. Of course there are representatives of the people sitting here and I expect us all to act like one. That's one. Two, I would really like to ask you for a consensus on the law on martial law, where we will all have the right to correct all the injustices that have been made according to this category of citizens. Of course, I expect, and I would really like to ask my distinguished colleague not to think that I'm salting someone's mind, to build someone on how it's going to work. As anyone acts here, the Serbian people see it best. Let everyone do their job. When I asked you not to talk about this category, which I belong to, I thought, although it may be adopted, and it does not have to, it is your right, to protect the wartime disabled and the families of fallen fighters must be institutionalized and introduced into legal frameworks, and there is an advantage for all of us together to pass good and favourable laws that we will settle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5924	Before we move on to the next amendment, I would just like to inform you that a delegation of the Serb Municipalitys community asked for a reception with me today, at 14.15 p.m. I ask all Members of Kosovo to be with me when I receive them. There's no room for others, but we'll let you know what happens. They asked for a reception with the President of the Assembly. I think it's polite to invite MPs from Kosovo as well. Let me also have the right to assess who should be involved in this work. They didn't ask for an audience with all MPs. They asked for a reception with the president of the assembly. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10. Budgetary system law. Mr. Krasic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5925	I have to say, at first, that the government is absolutely right about this opinion. This amendment, but not only this amendment, but all amendments which are similar in their character and content and which are submitted to Article 1. The draft amending and supplementing law on the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia does not meet that condition, as you wrote in your reasoning. However, that is no reason why you do not consider this amendment, so that if you agree with the ideas put forward in these 5-6 amendments of different parliamentary groups to Article 1, if you consider that there is some basis, you take it into consideration and, possibly, correct it with your amendment. However, this is obviously not the idea that led you to the draft law on rebalancing. I must begin by pointing out what the MPs who tabled amendments to Article 1. The bill, in fact, will. They want what Mrs. Minister would very much like to be done, but she can't say that, because she's a minister, because she's in the government, and there are some relationships and some political interests, some political goals, and then the minister can't step up as a professor, as an expert, as someone who understands, but as part of a team, one team. Since we also have amendments here, which are about to be based on principle -- the way you have, the spending I spend, that principle is acceptable. He's got his own excuse, that's what I have to say, but he's got some problems. I'll start with the most famous problem. When Nikolai Ceausescu returned all debts abroad, he informed the nation that Romania no longer owes anyone anything, they killed him. This debt-confidential relationship between a sovereign state, in order for the Democrats to say it, so sovereign, and the IMF, the World Bank, or these creditors, must always be present, because if there is no debt-confidential relationship, then the rulers of the world say something is wrong, because if this lot is left out of this team, this team and these rules, it poses a danger to some capital, etc. Another example of this thinking is what the rules of the European Union are. All of our ministers have been very faithful since 2000, so they said – the budget deficit is possible up to 3% of the social gross product, it is tolerable etc. However, there is one problem, for years France and Germany have had a 5% deficit. I talk to them and they confess to me. Don't read those books. Don't, ma'am, read the books. You read books, you tell students one thing, you come as a minister and you talk something else entirely. Don't make too many of those books spin. The younger one spins those books, so he shows the surplus, so we crack like a rainbow, from the surpluses. We're the first country to break because of the surplus. If I've prepared the field a little bit so far to figure out what this is about... Where's Dragan Vujadinovic? He's gone. He went to write a column. Budget is always a political issue, never an economic question. That's what everybody needs to know. That's what Cardellj tried to do, so instead of – the political economy, he said – economic policy. Oh, it's not people. It's always politics, but for the last 250 years politics has been an economy, it's in the economy. The economy as a science that calculates value, etc., if we start with that definition, what is the point of this budget? The point of this rebalancing is that we need to legalize something that's already been spent. Now the question is – how could you spend more than you were granted? Sure, it's no big deal. Why? Because there are short-term borrowing instruments, where the state is going to market, or emits short-term securities of value, provides money to overcome current budget problems and lack of funds, and then eventually comes with rebalancing and into this rebalancing process both secretaries, and cars, and cabinets etc. Secretaries, cars, cabinets and state secretaries are cowardly eggs to be discussed and talked about here. You are rightly criticizing it, but they deliberately planted it, that this criticism is done, in order to cover up what is main. That's where I've cleared up, and that's what you get. What do our citizens need to understand? Each budget is essentially the cost of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and is therefore appreciated whether the state is expensive or cheap. Given our economic situation and social misery, our country is too expensive. Now let me explain to you that it's too expensive. If you look at the gross social product, the fact is that it takes another 15 years for us to come to the social product from 1990 with this rate, with which the minister boasts. In 2001, however, the thugs changed the methodology for calculating social gross products because they applied international criteria, and then they say that this country is not what it used to be. No, it's not. We don't have that many armies, we have one plane capable of flying three helicopters. Meanwhile, all the planes, helicopters, tanks, were drowned with Americans in Sartid and sold, and Sartid is the biggest exporter, a successful company; for 20m euros they bought something costing a billion. Well, I'll be successful too. Anyone can be so successful, and this specimen of yours can be successful. He gets everything for free. That's economic policy. This level of consumption affects all segments of economic life, and when you look at what's written in article 1, how the state is going to raise legal means, then there's no room here for domestic product and for domestic production. Three times as much money will be provided for products coming from abroad to our country. In the formation of a gross social product, what comes from abroad comes only as a cost, or as a price of a service, because social gross product is formed on the basis not only of the value of the new goods produced, but also of the service and all of that. Services are medical, educational, etc. Since there is no production, when you see what this budget and the rebalance is, all the numerical statements are the result of the desired inflation, which is being covered up. With us, it does not escalate because there are quite enough amounts of foreign reserves, and then Jelasic, from time to time, put a little of these foreign exchanges on the market, calm down the course, allegedly, everything is fine, which you are rebelling, so that's the real government, that's the real governor, you see how the currency is stable. That only suits those people from abroad and those who import. Then there's this big difference -- you go to the store, you act like a voyeur, you can just watch, you can't buy. The course goes crazy when they're vacationing, right before New Year's Eve. When these guys are supposed to be lured into bringing in foreign exchanges, they get paid a little bit, but when kids are supposed to go to school, then the process is different. That's all the bad stuff. In this room, probably 50 people know that. So that's where you didn't invent the pothole, so we're clear. This is a really big budget for us. Just to remind you, you were an intern, Mr. Vujadinovic, in this country once led by Mr. Jovan Zebic, a genius, then, I don't know if he listens to me now, after you forced her out and filed a criminal report against her, Mila Jezimirovic, from whom you could learn how to run the budget. All giants. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the scene: All greats of hyperinflation. No hyperinflation, you don't know anything. These are serious issues about the state. I'm not talking about the American Embassy, I'm talking about the state, boy. Pull up a little bit, listen to these gray heads. It's not all "hepening." The state is a serious matter. Let's move on. So, if you'd used those experts, they were masters to cover this up a little bit, not to be seen, for a reason they were masters, she had to defend the state, but now we have everything on the table. When Svilanovic came, there was no more crypto protection of communication. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The whole world knows what to do. This is expensive for us. Does this have a significant impact on our lives? It's affecting. Is it that important? It's not. You know why it's not? Because there's no production. There's no production in this budget. There are some subsidies. They're not subsidies to stimulate production. You've given these subsidies under duress. Mladjan Dinkic does not want to hear about subsidies, regressions and these things to encourage production. At some point, he is right, but our stock funds, our supplies, cannot be measured with EU supplies. The European Union has in its livestock goods, basic agricultural and food products for the next five years. They mess with you about this sugar, because they fight internally, within the EU, about premiums and some of the things they need to get. They became some force when they stabilized production, when they stabilized the food market. They moved everyone into the industry. The Netherlands had two factories, one for helicopters, one for trucks, one for cars. It's all transferred to the East. They don't have any anymore, no "Lokid", no DKV, etc. They live on favors. Why? They're rich, for 500-600 years they've held the whole world as a colonial force, a thief, a thief, and a great fortune. We can't measure with them. It's your basic mistake. How can you compare a country league player and Ronald? It can't compare, and you keep comparing. Why? To escape reality. What is financed from this budget and how is the revenue and expenditure side formed? I don't have time to talk to you right now, but I will report for the amendment to Article 1, because there are five other amendments, so as a party representative, ma'am, I'll just say what you support to say, how incomes are formed, how expenditures are realized, why expenditures are so great, where they can be reduced, what needs to be done to reduce expenditure, and I will pay particular attention to the public debt, debt, guarantees and everything that, whether you want to admit it or not, lead Serbia into debt slavery. I'll buy you 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5926	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10. Budgetary system law. Here you go, Mr. Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5927	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 1. It's a bill of law. The legislator rejected the amendment, explaining that it did not comply with Article 10. The budget system law, which found that the budget consists of a general and specific part. This interpretation of the promoter, by which it determines what can be contained in the amendments, and what not, to say the least, is too broad and arbitrary. This interpretation is not even based on the relevant provisions of the Budgetary System Act. Article 10 refers, first of all, to the promoter, more specifically to the Ministry. In the section of the law entitled: preparing and adopting budgets and financial plans, which is a job carried out by the Ministry, in particular, in Article 10, it is said that the general part of the budget includes, among other things, the review of current incomes and expenditures, the review of credit, the payment of principals, interest and guarantees, the provisions on surpluses and deficits, the assessment of tax revenues, the data on the budget reserve. It is then said that a specific part of the budget covers the financial plans of the direct beneficiaries of the budget and that the general and specific parts of the budget include estimated revenues and expenditures for the fiscal financial year and for the next two fiscal years. So, nowhere in this article 10. The Budgetary System Act, which is called for by the Proposer in the Explanatory, does not mention the National Assembly, nor the amending draft budget by the National Assembly. The National Assembly is only mentioned in the part of the Budgetary System Act, which regulates budget adoption. Article 25 states that the National Assembly brings the budget of the Republic, and in Article 26, under the heading: Limits in the adoption of the budget, the amendments to the draft budget by the National Assembly must be within the maximum deficit set out in the draft budget of the Government. The proposal to increase expenditure in the budget must also contain measures to increase revenue or reduce other expenditure by the same amount. So, no mention of the general and the special part. The proposer, when considering the amendments, should rely on Article. Twenty-five and twenty-six. The law on the budgetary system, not to arbitraryly interpret the provisions of the Budgetary System Act, with the help of Article 10, which does not even mention the procedure before the National Assembly and which, apparently, refers to the Ministry itself. Therefore, it is clear that Article 10, primarily, refers to the proposing himself, not to the National Assembly, because it is under the obligation to prepare the budget, or perhaps the Proposer believes that each amendment must have a full draft budget law, of several hundred pages. However, the meaning of the amendment is far from such a perverse interpretation, which is essentially offered by the promoter. The amendment is only part of the legislative procedure. The purpose of the amendment is to correct the bad solutions in the law, not to write new laws. Besides, that's what legal science says. The book "Introduction to Law" by Prof. Dr. Koste Čavoskog and Prof. Dr. Radmila Vasic writes: "The legislative procedure usually includes the submission of the proposal", which is what is regulated in Article 10. The law on the budget system, "public debate," unfortunately, we didn't have it, except so-called. The IMF's well-intentioned advice, "search and vote in the legislative body". That's exactly what regulates art. Twenty-five and twenty-six. The draft law on the budgetary system and what the proposer is not telling in the reasons for the rejection of the amendment. At the end of this process, there is a vote in the legislative body, publications and entry into force. Also, the same authors state: "According to the types of norms, as established, it is possible that the law contains universal general norms or, in part, general norms or special ones". Then it is said, precisely for budget laws: "These so-called temporary laws, although not always for good, satisfy the conditions of generality, as well as laws that are passed with unlimited time, because the generality of the law, above all, refers to the type of norm which regulates the envisaged situations." Ladies and gentlemen, after such a legal-formal clarification, it should be pointed out that the amendment should not have been rejected because of the following economic arguments. An amendment rejected by the proposer, with an explanation that clearly has nothing to do with legal principles, requires an increase in expenditure on economic and agricultural subsidies, the total value of 15 billion dinars. This shall be in accordance with the provisions of Article 26. The law on the budgetary system, which states that the proposal to increase expenditure on amendments also contains measures to reduce other expenditure on the same amount. In particular, this amendment is required, and in this context a detailed table, a reduction in the cost of using services and goods, is an economic classification of 42, around 15 billion dinars. Therefore, it is a significant transition within the economic classification of 45, these are subsidies, as it envisions a total of around 63 billion dinars. However, these 15 billion, according to the official NBS course of 28.10.2008, is about 180m euros. Therefore, there is no large amount of money in relation to those given by the rich countries of Western Europe and Brussels to their businesses and farmers in these areas. That is why it is necessary to increase subsidies in the budget, for the competitiveness of our businessmen and farmers. For example, the European Commission allocated around 450m euros for subsidies to wine producers for the 2005/2006 season. Of course, as usual, rich countries are expected to receive the most subsidies. It's one of the rules on which the Brussels agricultural policy is based and it's a reality that can't be hidden with any phrases about so-called. a European path and an equal match between our farmers and Western farmers. In particular, Spain received 150m euros, France 160m, Italy 99m, and the rest of the sum was divided by 11 other states. Also in 2003, the total EU subsidies to farmers amounted to: French – seven billion and 300m euros, Spanish – four billion and 200m euros, German – three billion and 900m euros, Italian – three billion and 130m euros and British – three billion and 120m euros. On the other hand, our agriculture has not progressed since the adoption of the so-called so-called farm. IMF advice and approximations to Brussels. On the contrary, according to data provided by research centre associate in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce Vojislav Stankovic, a lower breed of corn was achieved in 2007 than in 2006 and 2005. As far as exports to the EU are concerned, there is not a much better situation either. For example, experts predict that exports of juniper meat in 2008 will not exceed the one from 2007, when only 20% of the quota was sold to abroad. As IMF advice affects the development of agriculture, the following quotes show. Serž Alini, in the magazine "Lemond diplomat", writes – countries that have listened to the advice of the World Bank and the IMF have sacrificed their food agriculture; they are no longer able to rely on their own harvest. This should be added to the data of the Republic Statistics Institute – the agricultural production index in central Serbia in 2007 was below the 1995 level. Indices are calculated on the basis of an index list involving 56 economically important agricultural products for which statistics determine production. Also, in this context of the collapse of our agriculture and economy, we have presented data on the economy, otherwise, in principle, we should point out the following. As is known, the IMF mission came to Serbia in 28.10 to help, it said, with its well-intentioned advice. Today's official talks are due to begin. It announces that the current economic situation will also be discussed. They'll also negotiate loans if necessary. On the occasion of the arrival of this rescue mission, our citizens should know the following. On 20 October 2008, the British "Gardian" said in a comment on the IMF mission's visit to Belgrade -- Serbia has relatively large debts compared to the total GDP, which is, in the long run, a potentially biggest problem. Exactly, contrary to our authority's claim. On the other hand, the Financial Times, on the same day, analyzes the situation in Turkey, NATO Pact members and a country that, like us, is approaching the EU, due to its co-operation with the IMF. The British newspaper quoted Turkish Prime Minister Erdogan as saying -- we cannot darken our future by meeting IMF requirements. Finally, our authority, in connection with the arrival of the IMF's "spasonous" mission, should certainly have listened to the advice of the world's economic experts, and especially the leading ones, such as Joseph Stotic, the winner of the Nobel Prize for Economics and former World Bank Vice President. His advice is certainly more useful than those who will give the IMF mission. Stigic believes, based on his rich experience, that IMF decisions and advice were "made on something that seemed like a strange mix of ideology and bad economy, i.e. Dogma, which sometimes seemed to be barely concealing special interests. The problems facing developing countries are severe and the IMF has often been called on to help in the worst of all situations, when the country faces a crisis, but IMF drugs have failed frequently, even more often than they have been successful. The IMF's structural adjustment policy, or policies designed to help the country adapt to crises, as well as permanent imbalances, has led to famines and riots in many countries. "That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment should be accepted, subsidies increased, economic and agricultural start-ups, quit borrowing and do in most cases exactly the opposite of what the IMF advises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5928	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. You've got three and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will refer to the story and the amendment submitted by my colleague Milorad Krstin, regarding the increase in subsidies in the economy and agriculture. In fact, an esteemed colleague proposed to increase the total amount by two billion in economic subsidies and four billion for agriculture. It is very important and necessary, as my colleague Mirovic said, to invest in the economy and agriculture, because we have comparative advantages and here we have the opportunity to live up to everything that nature and society give us, and in the unfair competition that we have on the world market, and also on the domestic market, it is impossible to achieve better results in these conditions of submission without the help of the state. We need to find resources and we need to invest every single dollar in the economy and agriculture. I ask you now, all together, here I am in this House for three and a half years, no agreement has been ratified in which investment in the economy or agriculture is foreseen, no loan relating to certain funds that we will transfer to the economy, aid, just as the EU and America do. You see what America and the European Union have done in this global crisis, just out of state resources. So everything goes down, everything goes down, stays state. That's what we have to do. So, we're broken, our economy, our agriculture is broken, and that's where we have to help. Every single dollar from the budget, from a variety of funds, we need to turn it into subsidies and help the economy. What business? First of all, the export economy, the economy that revives its work and its invested capital. Where are our reserves? Where are our future investment routes? In production. What production? In agricultural production, we have quotas that have left us and allowed the EU to export certain finished products, such as sugar. We produced 467 thousand tons in 2007. For our purposes, 220 is necessary, we have an export quota of 180 thousand tonnes and in 2007 we exported 150 thousand tonnes. So, 30,000 tons, for which we had opportunities, through this quota, to export to the EU, we didn't export, because we didn't produce anymore. We didn't stimulate, we didn't grant. Furthermore, in wine production we have the possibility of export quotas of 67,000 hectolitres, and in the last year we exported only a few thousand, in this year – nothing, and the potential options for wine exports are enormous.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5930	We've just run out of time, three and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5931	I'll continue later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5932	Maybe you can stay right now. Your amendment is up. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10. Budgetary system law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5933	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The 2007 amending and supplementing Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2007 budget gave the SRS its position on the budget deficit defined by the proposal, on a level of 45 billion. With this amendment, the SRS proposes to place this within the framework of what was planned for the 2008 budget, i.e. a monetary amount of 15,784,730,463 dinars. Why it is necessary to reduce the deficit, I will say that in my explanation of this amendment, but it is important to point to certain views of the promoter. Namely, the finance minister, explaining the 2008 budget proposal, said the budget would generate revenues from five to 10 billion. So, compared to the total budget revenue of 650 billion, for what was foreseen in the 2008 budget, the five to 10 billion item is very low, so we would say that it is unnecessary to change the budget from the revenue side. However, it is important because we have spent the funds and we must normly, legally, financially, cover what we have already done. So the spending side in this case is important for us to make a budget correction. In the practice of rebalancing, it is common, at any time when assumptions for corrections are made, for certain allocations in certain areas, to make budget corrections. But in this case, when we have so little money on the income side, it clearly says that when we balanced the income side, we started to get the most out of what we could get on the revenue side. We're almost through getting him out, because 650 billion is the top of the line right now. When we say 650 billion, then we have to say it's too tense. It's only small enough for something to happen economically, so there's a correction. We expect them to be gone by the end of the year, but we don't have any serious moves by the government in terms of stopping negative flows that will flow from the world, which slowly come here, not slowly, but speedily. The speeding train is coming, which will certainly cause both the economic and financial crisis, and it will turn into a social field and we will have huge social problems. That's why the SRS's suggestion is important. The positions provided for in the divisive sense do not have a social foothold, except for pensions. There's no number of corrections. The economic crisis, as well as the credit crisis, which will hit us, will reflect the highest in the social field. We don't have any backup. In addition to this deficit in the budget, we have a deficit in the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, we have a deficit in the Health Insurance Fund and various other deficits, which we are likely to discuss in this debate and see how to close them. That's why the SRS' proposal to bring this deficit down to 15 billion. Our income side can't be covered, we can't expect to be able to cover 45 billion by the end of the year, as much as the legislator proposes. When we talk about the deficit in the budget, we need to start from the general economic and financial situation in which our country is. We have to mention the balance of payments deficit here, and the basic objections of the IMF, the World Bank, as well as domestic economic sciences, are heading towards stopping negative trends in the country's balance of payments. The country's balance of payments is growing year by year. He is particularly expressed in this year, about 6 billion euros. We covered it and covered it in previous years from privatisation revenues, through in-creditation and through foreign remittances. The question is, what will happen to the leads from abroad and the extent of the clues we will have next year. The process of firing workers in Western Europe is prominent, as is in America. The trend will be even stronger in 2009. The recession is in the world. With recession comes social problems, layoffs, payouts, and we can expect less and less money. I remember the situation with the credit system; during 2009, we will have difficult conditions of credit, high interest and inability to borrow. This will all cause problems in the country's balance of payments and create, on the other hand, huge problems in the social sphere. The foreign trade deficit for the first eight months of this year is eight billion and $320 million. By the end of the year, it's estimated to be somewhere between $13 billion and $14 billion. It's just a result of the government's unhappiness, year after year. So somewhere since 2001, we've had a two-and-a-half billion foreign trade deficit, this year we've raised it somewhere between 13 billion and 14 billion. We do nothing, the government does nothing in terms of the policy of stopping imports and increasing exports. That's why we started by stressing that we have to work in the field of export growth, creating preconditions to transfer every single dollar in the budget to subsidies, to help our economy. Because that's where the invested dinar always returns far more than in the social sphere. Our external debt should concern us, he is now at a level, right now, about 63% of gross social product, and some limit is 60%, what master criteria bind countries, normal, real states – up to 60%. We've been over it, and we expect a dramatic increase next year. Right now, it's $30 billion by the end of this year, probably between $31 billion and $32 billion. We should be worried about that. The inflation we planned in the range of 6%, at the end of the year will most likely be two digits. If we add that we planned base inflation in the range of 3% to 6%, it's now between seven and eight%, so double the base inflation than we planned. We have the largest reference interest rate in Europe and, regardless of this monetary aggregate and that financial aggregate, we do not realise the results we have foreseen with the reference rate. Do we have to mention the purposeless use of funds? Here, I'll mention only two of the many examples where we've unintendedly used funds, that at least the SRS in time warns and points to any non-intentional use of state resources. The Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has hired a house to carry out the NIS evaluation, regardless of what we had a privatisation adviser, who only took 420,000 euros for the job of evaluation and advice in terms of privatisation. This second estimate took 480,000 euros, so approximately 1m euros was spent to get some data. I'm asking you, has anyone seen the assessment? On what basis did this house, which agreed with the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, on the basis of which indicators and facts, come up with data on the value of NIS? In NIS we have at least 1,000 highly educated personnel, which, in any case, can get to this data much faster, far more neatly, etc., but we need this possibility of bargaining to launder certain money, to spend state resources, transfer it to private pockets and get nothing. We didn't get anything. Has anyone seen the assessment that has been carried out, except that all the means of information, the moment that this information was to be published politically, published – the value of NIS is that? You see, we're throwing funds, instead of moving those funds where necessary, where they're going to fertilize, we washed them. This is just money laundering for me. On the other hand, here I have asked a parliamentary question concerning a decision by the Government to pay the humanitarian fund "The Divac" 40 million dinars, in an action run by this humanitarian organization. It is not controversial, we do not dispute the right of all humanitarian organisations to do what the law requires and this humanitarian organisation to do certain jobs which, from the aspect of the refugee population and internally displaced persons, are very positive, but this decision by the Government to separate funds, which will later be transferred to private investment and the creation of preconditions for private property, is impossible under the Law on the Budgetary System, the Law on Budget, the Law on Ownership Relations, etc. It is contrary to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and, as such, should experience condemnation. I didn't get the answer to this question. Here we need to discuss the economic and financial data relating to the debts of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia". This public company owes to the passengers who did 30 billion dinar jobs. The funds owed by the Public Enterprise were to be reconciled from the Republic of Serbia's budget, from other sources it was impossible to reconcile them. If we put this item of 30 billion dinars into the budget, and we will have to put it into the budget at some point, we can transfer it from year to year, etc., but the orders came from the government, from the ministries, the jobs were done, payments had to go through the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" and were to be reconciled by funds from the budget, we are violating the provisions of the Budget System Act, not showing those debts belonging to the budget. The 2008 budget envisions a 0.1% employment. There's no employment in this country. Why? Because the funds in the budget that are supposed to be so small...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5934	Please bring in the time, it's been 15 minutes. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5935	I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5936	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were submitted by MP Jorganka Tabakovic. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10. Budgetary system law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5937	Dear colleagues, Serbian citizens, in the debate on details of this budget, here is the opportunity for what the minister, Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, calls a compromise budget, to be characterised in a different way. What you call a compromise, I call differences that can iron out money, because it's powerful enough to iron out all the misunderstandings. What is a fundamental feature of the government's response to each amendment, is the argument that it is not in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, somewhere in Article 10, and somewhere in another member. For the sake of the public, I'll tell the following. The budget system law was on the agenda of the previous assembly on three occasions and was removed from the agenda, once, even after the debate on the law itself, and before the vote. So it's a very important law that allows the government not to deepen itself in the amendments, but that the solution contained in the Budgetary System Act says well – it's not in line, and the point. So, the reason we're discussing the Budgetary System Act again is also the excuse the government has in it. For all those who have read a very useful book, which speaks of society and state, and this is about Morris Jolie's book "Conversations in Hell of Montesquije and Makiaveli", this phenomenon is very cleverly explained. The opposition in parliament should not be allowed the possibility to submit amendments. The existing law on the budgetary system, right now, has one kind of solution that changes simply become unthinkable. This did not convince us that we should give up the amendment, but I want to say the fundamental reason for the appearance of the amendment to Article 1 that I submitted on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia. It's about you giving us an observation that, to make it easier for the people to understand, the shopping list is not done properly, and perhaps the figures are not well collected. I ask a fundamental question – who will pay the purchase bill called the Republic of Serbia budget? So, it's not about technique and it's not about how the budget is presented, because there's no accounting budget technique that can mask wasteful behavior and spending on what the total people don't benefit from. Just as marketing cannot defeat reality and that the most skilled marketing experts cannot beat the truth, i.e. that poor quality makes good and acceptable, it is not meant for the government to defend itself by such mechanisms as the technique of budget making, or its marketing representation. However, the same system as the public budget is being resorted to by the National Bank of Serbia, when its bad moves in monetary policy represent the people. The National Bank, for example, defends itself in the story of the danger of future costing loans by providing citizens with information about the situation, and that one of its basic tasks is transparent and broad communication. It's just a wording from the National Bank's work report last year. However, someone here confused the pots. It's not the job of the National Bank to inform the public about the state of the financial system, it's what the media do, it's what newspapers do. The National Bank must have an active, or, as modernly said, a proactive role in notifying the public of stability opportunities and what threatens the stability of the financial system. Let me get back to the budget. The government and the minister cannot file an account that someone else has already made, not in terms of the plan, but in terms of the funds spent. It is, in a way, also derogating the Assembly and legislative activities, that we, while contesting the possibility of acting amendmentally on this budget account, in fact, and minimising the role in affecting the preparation of the expenditure and income plan. With this amendment, I only wanted to point out the most important problem of this budget, which is its balance, loans and guarantees, as something that challenges real funding. The people would say – stretch out how long you have a gobber, and the serious state has to spend just as much as it does and it has to, by definition, hold a balanced budget without financial innovation. Something that's extremely important to say, we're all people who seek modernity, but we don't exactly consider modern financing to be a post-modern way of life. We cannot strive either as a state or as a citizen to be someone's ideal debtor whose credit card will be our basic ID card. You know, those who don't take credit, citizens and states, and there are few, are simply uninteresting, because they question the functioning of a banking and financial system, which seeks to be the basis of the economy and the foundation of capitalism today. That it is not good and that without production there is no life, that without real funding there is no serious state, says the economic financial crisis, whose waves are spreading in concentration circles to us today. What's a completely undesirable innovation is that what's called a source of funding, or a passive, the economists know what it is, a loan, promises to finance again with a passive and a source of funding, and that's tax. In that good book, which I hear he likes to read, Mr Dinkic, "Conversations of Monteskije and Makijaveli in Hell", in a very picturesque way is explained basic economic truth – that you cannot finance the Passive passively. That is precisely what I point out, because if in 2005 you passed the Public Debt Act and in the last year's budget adoption procedure we gave you an amendment, that with every responsibility, whether it's a bypass, whether it's a protection of the environment, revitalisation of Bora, whatever credit-financed project, you've given us one explanation that the Public Debt Administration, which we've legally established and tasked it to do, about the credit risk assessment, the interest risk assessment, about what the state and the budget means this task, I am confident that we would not get to this level of deficit and that we would be more careful in debt for any of the purposes. It's not enough to, for example. Mr. Pajtic explains that 20,000 jobs are open to the loans they gave. What companies? What new 20,000 jobs are open? You know, it's like when the governor says - of 35 banks, 28 said it wouldn't increase interest rates and cut loans, but it doesn't say which 28 out of 35. Then every 35 will say, no, I'm not the one. So, detailing what loans go for, how much they cost, which of them benefits, whether those who take them, or those who need to get jobs, in what time period and how many effects they will be in the budget. We're neither impatient nor ignorant. We want to accept the explanation offered. If you have all the instruments to defecate budget funding and this kind of borrowing and execution guarantee you present to us as real, the only possibility that we can develop, you won't run out of support, but we're really just left to assume how much it's going to cost us. All the loans we took last year, which are based on the eurobor, which was below 4% on the six-month level, and then in September went to 5.28, now again, for some zeroths something percent, decreases, but these are for the country's serious numbers and these are large numbers in a game where you know exactly who loses and who gets who. The Public Debt Administration exists and it is necessary that you provide us with a report on this with each credit responsibility. What I particularly want to point out is that 45 billion dinars of deficits in this budget are something that there is no possibility of today in the source of funding, or privatisation, while foreign direct investment has been reduced and there is no supply of what is called funds collected in privatisation. So, from 2000 to today, there's a trend in credit borrowing, which is now somewhere around $29 billion, which is a private debt, and when I say private debt, I mean businesses and citizens, it participates with 65%. All one-third of that debt is the state. So, about nine billion dollars is a government public debt. The question arises – from what will the debt be financed, which is ultimately guaranteed by the state, if the privatisation revenues are uncertain? We don't have a receipt, the citizens don't have it, and we don't have any information on whether they've been spent and to what extent. We have information that foreign exchange reserves are less, because these banks, whose queens are in countries outside Serbia, behave according to the logical model – which is for the house, are not carried into the church either. They have to finance their business. What are we going to finance this deficit from? You don't think we're going to swallow information that high social product allows us to borrow this much? Every professionally honest economist and every informed economist must know that one percent of inflation, deliberately permitted, increases the social product, experts say, by 6.5 billion. An artificially increased social product, in which products are given at current inflation rates, puts us to sleep. We stop as a state to be careful in the minuses we create. Also, the common thing is that the growth of a social product, which in 2001 was $12.5 billion, is now being handled by a figure of about $34 billion and more, in fact, has had an increase in traffic, trade, financial services and taxes. Let's explain to the citizens what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5938	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5939	I'm finishing it. It's an import goods, which someone has to transport, it's credits for someone to buy import goods, and the store that that goods had to sell; the imports that are cancer-earths of this budget. Thank you. (SRS emissaries banging on benches all the time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5940	Mr. Zoran Krasic, about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5941	For the amendment, I have 15 minutes, if I were to go through the Rules of Procedure, I would have three, 15 minutes to express my dissatisfaction, criticism, disagreement with the fact that Mrs Slavica Djukic wants to have her own spare party; when she is expelled from the SPS, she will see her Kragujevcan. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, let me warn you, that it does not turn out that I did not tell you in time, so that later I have problems with several sides, first and foremost, such citizens exist to do harm to Vojislav Seselj. To inform you, Vojislav Seselj has received another 30-day communication ban from today. It is only because these exist in the National Assembly and can, like this, play something – I am God, I am an MP, etc. It would be dangerous for our public if you believed what the previous speaker said. If the public believed what was said, then we'd all go to Boston, not just in August, but in November, too. That's what we from the SRS tell you based on experience. Probably Madam Minister knows, that group exists to recite tycoons, so one group of tycoons represents their interests against another group of tycoons, so when it's tight enough, then these other tycoons say we're not going to do anything, let us go. Then, as a result of this tycoon fight, between these advances, we have a situation where one of them moves to Dedinje, the other one makes a 250 square-square apartment, he didn't give them anything. It's just a support machine, like these councilmen, they grab, the poor, for something, they think, the courts come back, they embarrass themselves as humans and as individuals. From Palilu, these two councilmen came and said -- disaster of people, well, that's the mafia. Literally speaking, the mafia, but it is Mrs. Djukic - Dejanovic's stoic. Why? Because Boris Tadic and Srdjan Milivojevic still support it. No one in this country supports it anymore. Absolutely no one. I know all those present in the DS don't support this and that, in the end, it will be your pity. Since I promised the lady representing the government, I keep my promise. Dear citizens, to understand what this budget and this rebalancing is, it's no bogeyman. It's the same budget you make every month in the house. How much money can I count on, with that money, I can spend as much as I can, possibly, on the card, on this, on that, on that, but it's coming, and you know what it's like since these democratic banks came in, that when they arrive, it's full of the crying vehicle you took away. People can't pay them off. Don't worry, ties are also bought on a lollipop in Croatia. I'm telling you all this so you don't make a mistake. Bulgaria has nothing left to privatise, they have chaos. The Hungarians are now experiencing a severe crisis. Let me tell you in advance, the first next country to be hit by this will be Italy, the second one will be Greece, the third one will be Spain. You know that, ma'am, since you worked for the IMF. You were, I guess, some representative of theirs, questioning the bonuses, etc. In order for citizens, as my coalition partners, the coalition partners of the SRS, to understand what the budget and the rebalancing are, it is about like this – the state, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, wants to run something through the National Assembly and become the law. He makes a proposal and we say it's not good and it needs to be changed. Since the multi-party system, it has always been the government on this side and then what the government has proposed is here to vote and become the law, as if it had been brought by both the left and the right. By these laws, we have, on the one hand, this left-hand side, where the funds are being raised, and we have the right-hand side of the budget, where the funds are being spent. Now let's see how the funds are raised. The funds are collected by several regulations. It's a set of financial regulations in the area of the fiscal system. These are tax regulations, all taxes, the rules on contributions, all contributions. Contributions are not the country's original income, but are directed towards the para-state authorities, for the labour market, health care, for compulsory insurance. I use the word mandatory insurance. When a state prescribes an insurance obligation, a pension-involvement, a health, in case of unemployment, then the state is guaranteed and is responsible for the whole area. If there is not enough resources in these three areas based on the contribution, the State is obliged to provide the missing funds. Where they'll be provided, through the budget, and on the basis of other regulations that raise funds. That's where we ended up with the IMF. They cannot criticise anyone in Serbia that the state's budget is transferring funds, missing funds, for these three segments of compulsory insurance. Why? The state has prescribed mandatory insurance. With a tough SRS action since 1991, over 1994, when it entered our program, a year and a half ago we got another pillar of insurance, it's so-called. Voluntary insurance, but that's where they fly, too, so you know. It's not originally our combination, which we wrote a book about in 1994, nor is it the combination that we represented here when these laws were passed. We're practically the first protagonists of these voluntary funds, but they're ruining it. We'll talk about it another time. There are rules on taxes that citizens pay, income tax, corporate income tax, and now we have property tax, etc. That's how you form the means. Why? To keep the state up to its obligations. What obligations? By the Constitution and by the law. As these funds are planned, I say, exactly, the right word – they plan, no one can hit the dinar, but they are planned over some rates, so you can see the number of taxpayers, so you can see how much it will be in the crowd. There's, of course, customs, there's other things. How were they at Customs and this stuff planned? Bad. Why bad? Because our market, from the point of view of customs protection, is open as a can for sardines, especially when you hear that Djelic say - no one has accepted this agreement on accession, stabilisation, etc., but we will start with that application, regardless of whether they have ratified. He says - I am opening the market for the Republic of Serbia even more. He was simply not designed to do something good for Serbia. So when you see Djelic, you know it's bad for Serbia. The fact that he's a little "titty-titty" and he's talking, acting, acting, playing, that's another thing, that's to fool you. Everything he's done is bad. That's what you feel in your pocket and in your everyday life. What's the possible situation? It is possible that these funds collected are not sufficient for state functions, but they may be sufficient, and there may be more resources. Sometimes, in "trouble time," as these modern economists say, those who got diplomas at some course in Segedin, or waited at some theater to get a diploma out of the gutter, it's a characteristic, first of all, of G 17 plus, they criticize what used to be, and once upon a time it was: if there was an excess income over expenditures, it was purposely directed, or it was returned to whoever paid in the appropriate proportion. That category doesn't exist with us anymore. When democracy came, it no longer exists. Whatever gets together, they're always a little small. With seven thousand employees, we've come to 20 and some thousands. That's your data, ma'am, you're turning your eyes for nothing. In fact, we have reached 260,000 of those for whom funds are provided from the budget. That's your information, on the 78th page, I think, because the state changed, so the military came to us, so with a hundred and a few thousand soldiers we burned to less than a cop. In 2000, Milosevic was said to have 100,000 police officers, and after a month Dusan Mihajlovic, the minister, said we have 18 000, we lack another 5,000 and must provide them. Now we've come to 43,000, I think. Now we've got turtles and frogs, we've got everything in place to guard the regime. That's all the cost. As far as the Army is concerned, it's a disaster. I just told you, one plane, two helicopters, and the Sutanovac is going to take a picture, no problem at all. He's gonna go to Garmispartikirhen with his fellow ministers and make arrangements. So there's no way to get the funds back. Could she come back? You could, if you cut costs. But they don't want to cut the cost of the state, they increase the cost of the state. It's the only way we can justify coming from seven and a half thousand to 23 thousand employees, just as far as the government and the ministries are concerned. Who did they hire? Yours. Who are they? Young, smart, beautiful, experts. What's the effect of their work? It's a disaster for the state in every way. We're stagnant, we have no use for that state administration. What use do we have? You go and you say - this law was passed, something's wrong, and he says - wait till I get it out of the drawer, get it out of the drawer, and he says - it's a bad translation from Slovenia to Serbian, it shouldn't have been like this, but it was meant for a restrictive procedure. What kind of experts are you? What do you know? To pull, nothing else. I'm literally saying you're pulling. Is there a reproductive capacity in this society, to make a accumulation, to start with some development, etc.? Here, Belgrade can't build a bridge for eight years. Of course, the city of Belgrade doesn't make money, gets it based on taxes, etc. Two years talking about some bridge that's visible, so invisible, it's gone. There's absolutely nothing they can do, but they're able to get out of the building land that's worth a thousand to make it worth five grand and then sell at a price that I don't know what. So, masculine, fraud, malfeasance, there are masters, they perfected it. Where? In the West. Which West? Someone rotten, from the time of the original accumulation of capital. They're experts with us now. That's what you citizens of the Republic of Serbia are paying for, not because of these MPs here, not many people ask them, Boris Tadic. It is also because of Dragan Gilas, whom the dog had nothing to bite for 10 years ago, but he made 50 and a few million in Czech Republic, thus assessing his wealth. Can you imagine that "Idol" Shaper? People were baptized in high school as an unintelligent man, and his wealth is now about 100m euros. Not to mention these other tycoons, who they were and what they were. How did they do it? We also have this guy from Bajcetina, he used to visit two locations: Fruska Gora and Goc. Watch out from Vranjska Banja, there will now be a big scam, now through some sponsor, who has a cargo yard, making a campaign. It's possible that he could tear down all the houses, make new hotels for his tycoons. You have robbed Bosnia in Vrnjačka Banja if you vote for this group of citizens "Forward, Serbia". You see, this government will never go towards real finance, it will never go towards something that is realistic, which is tolerable for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We'll keep hearing what the cost is compared to the gross social product, but what does a man with the Selicevica have from the nominal statement of the gross social product? What does he have to do with the gross social product? He knows that what he did can't sell, he knows that it was in his village of 200 and some people, and now there are five. He knows he can't pay for electricity. What does it have to do with the gross social product and the fact that the lady, very politely, will explain to us about the participation of an item in the gross social product, the participation of an item in the total expenditure of the budget, the rebalancing, etc.? There's no way. The whole story of numbers, of some comparisons with Belgium, the Netherlands, France, England, falls into the water in conflict with reality, and the reality in Serbia is not what it is in these papers. There is no respect here for what the Constitution guarantees us.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5942	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5943	Art. 225 and 226. Two days ago, I asked the Prime Minister about foreign exchange savings and the price of money. That's what I explained by the fact that the interest on the foreign savings is 9%, which is a 40 percent reserve, and that money costs the bank around 15.67%. Any businessman who wants to borrow that money, minimum, 18 to 20%, interest is 18 to 20%. Chuck, there's over 29% for certain duties. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said the crisis is gone and the government is doing great. Another government official, the minister, accused businessmen of acting unconsciously, the same moment we are in, and of increasing product prices. The question is: who will the economy be overcoming such an increase in the price of money, whether raw materials or finished products, or by firing a certain number of workers in order to reduce the cost?- I'm sorry. I think this is a serious issue and a major problem for the state and for all of us and, above all, it is necessary for the Prime Minister to come out with a clear view which is the strategy for this financial crisis to be resolved in the best way by the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5944	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) The MPs Vesna Pesic, Nenad Prokic, Slobodan Maras and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with correction, legally possible. The word has a folk ambassador, Vesna Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5945	Before I show what the amendment has been made to the LDP Parliamentary Group, I would like to point to one illogicality in the debate itself. Of course, there is a debate here on the rebalancing and, in the context of the crisis, whether 45 billion were to go into budget deficits or not. There is one illogicality that seems to me, perhaps, even more important to the debate itself. When certain subsidies are allocated to the budget, such as this member to whom I have submitted the amendment with several other colleagues, it is evident that the Serbian Railways have received a total subsidy, along with this 508m rebalance, of more than 11 billion dinars. I'd like to ask a question and point to this illogicality. Why do we have no explanation of what this subsidy has been spent on so far, and why is this additional subsidy needed for 508 million railways? There's no explanation. I have to call this opportunity to the Constitution, Article 92(3), that there is no final budget bill, so it is not known why these 508 million additional dinars are being sought for the Serbian Railways. I'm asking this question because there are some illogical issues that have appeared in public at the last minute. Since we have not heard of such large subsidies from Ms. Dragutinovic, if she does not engage in some small changes or small subsidies, then let her explain in her presentation what the subsidies so far have been spent on, why they are looking for new ones. Is such a big subsidy, and I have to say that 11 billion, along with these 508 million that are now being proposed, a huge subsidy, is closer to this subsidy that has now been asked for an election promise regarding pensions for the October account? We knew, of course, that this rebalancing was made because of that election promise. Why is an additional 508 million being given, and 11 billion going to subsidies for Serbia's Railways without a single word of explanation? What have they been spent on so far, and why does it take another 508 million? This lack of logic breaks the whole story about this rebalancing, because this rebalancing story only makes sense if we say -- the budget envisions this much, spent this much, we're wrong in the prediction, and now we're correcting that forecast in the budget by rebalance, because we didn't predict that we're going to need this much more money for this item. That is why, Mrs Dragutinovic, I urge you to explain why it was necessary to add 508 million more to the subsidisation of the Serbian Railway. I've tried to establish a personal contact these days, although, I don't know, it may be a parliamentary duty, but I expected you to say, at least when it comes to these great subsidies, where the money went and why you're looking for more. There's no explanation. Now I've been looking again at that cabbage you delivered us, and there's nothing there about why you're looking for it. Yesterday I called the Serbian Railways to ask why they needed these 508 million additional subsidies. Of course, I couldn't ask them what they spent the previous money on, whether they were spent, etc. I got a notice, something very interesting. First, you should have said, if that's true, I don't know, maybe they lied to me about the ones I asked, that they're looking for that 508 million extra to pay. Did you know that? Did you grant them a salary increase and who approves them? So they said that the railways, compared to what they don't know, had less salaries and that the government had promised them that, if the total subsidy was something more than 11 billion, by selling their services to earn those 11 billion, the government would get these 508 million to equalize wages, they don't know who, with the public sector, with some other company, I don't know who they're counting on. In other words, I've been informed that this 508 million, which you've now put into rebalancing, should go on paydays. Is that familiar to you? Do you know? Can you give us any information on why the wages are increasing there? That's why I wrote in this amendment, and I would take this opportunity to say that one mistake has been made here, because three zeroes have been left out, I think that mistake has already reached you. So we thought that when it comes to railway subsidies, they shouldn't be added these 508 million for personal incomes, and here's why. For JP "The Railways of Serbia", on the side of the budget expenditure provided for in Table 1, the Rebalance proposal proposes to increase the requested subsidies to 508 million compared to the existing budget. The LDP also considers that the existing amount of subsidies is too high, especially given the ineffectiveness of the management of this public undertaking. As a result, we propose not to allow an increase in subsidies by such a high amount, as this would encourage irresponsible behaviour of public companies' managements and further shift their business burden to taxpayers. Please, it is known to everyone that in connection with Director Sarančić, who is now expected to remain in a very high position, there was already one public affair in connection with the purchase of those wagons and that even the head of the party Vela Ilic, in one day's performance, said that there was not everything in accordance with the rules; not the wagons were bought in the tender, but it was purchased, in particular, some shoe store. It's totally against the law. If they have a management that can spend money like this, there's no reason to add 508 million to a company like that. Let's move on now, what is happening at this point with this same company and why the public is even more scandalous about these subsidies that you, Madam Minister, have proposed. Look, there's now a division of public enterprises between the DS and their coalition partner of the SPS. I think, as far as G17 plus, they've already installed some of their businesses, but DS and SPS, who have almost reconciled and announced national reconciliation, are still discussing which public enterprises will belong to. Now I'm going to read you what you did and write, not personally, in that memorandum of projection 2009/11 on public enterprises and revenues. When it comes to the Railways, it is predicted that Mr. Sarancic remains in high office. It was supposed to be some Mr. Aleksandar Dobric, I think that's what it's called, who was reported in public that he was exporting money to Cyprus from 1990 to 1998 and that, I don't know, it was in the testimony at the trial of Michael Kertes, the man he was pushing again. I don't know who's responsible for the fact that people like that, who are pretty freaked out in public, are getting out of our subsidies, out of our pockets, that people like that come to places with huge salaries, but, literally, with huge salaries. Today, also in "Srbiagas", where, as you know, the price of gas increases by 60%, and the company is at a great minus, Mr. Bajatovic was so kind as to tell us that his salary is 270,000 dinars; that's what we heard yesterday, but that's what he said the other day. In doing so, he did not realise it, in conflict of interest, because he is also a representative at the Jugorosgas, where he gets another 5,000 euros, and here 3,000 euros, there 9,000, 5,000, so that's already 11,000 euros, and there's some action in the Bar, and there he gets on the basis of that representation. Well, can't someone else be a representative at Jugorosgas, but it has to be all the same person? Based on what productivity of work, on what basis do these people credit themselves with such wages and on what basis do you grant such subsidies? I'm saying, a man can make a mistake, because surely there are 20,000 workers in the Railways who must be receiving some little, poor church girl and maybe they deserve to get some pay raises, but they can't get out of these state tycoons. They're not private tycoons, they're state tycoons, and I'm asking you to stop talking about private tycoons from now on, but to talk about party, state tycoons, moving from one company to another. To make things worse, when it comes to the railways, why did we put a ban on increasing subsidies, which you, of course, refused? Because it also takes Zoran Angelkovic from the SPS to be the chairman of the Management Board of the same railways that I'm telling you about now, and it doesn't matter that the Management Board is meeting once a month once every three months. So, for full unemployment, for complete irresponsibility, because we have never seen that some board president, nor director, has taken responsibility for anything when it comes to public enterprises, no one calls for responsibility, for being the manager, which will be on the board of directors, will get 110,000, for nothing, plus they will have their own interest, they will have their own salary, and they will get this, too, from the budget. I'm saying it's not the end of that horrible, monstrous story. Now we can see, even though I was asking myself yesterday how things around the railroad stand, why they need those 500 million dinars, because we see that Mr. Sarancic, as future V.D. Director, he's buying a huge fleet. I don't know if you're familiar with this, two million euros and 200,000; the man bought cars, some of which cost 100,000 euros, at 53,000 euros. Here, I can tell you everything, 26 passenger cars, a total of 848,961 euros, 28 field and freight vehicles worth 772.727 euros and 16 vans, worth 558,442 euros. Then, from the mid-class cubicity, the individual value of 53,000 euros, as well as 20 cars, each costing 21,000 euros. So, for a total of 2,200,000 euros, Mr. Sarancic buys cars. A question has been asked to the Serbian Railways – for whom on the Management Board, for whom are these powerful cars bought at such an expensive price? They're all 'audies', all the most expensive cars. They did not answer that, they said. They will drive employees in the railways. Those poor workers, 20,000, they're gonna ride these "audies" and these cars?- I'm sorry. Well, you know what, it's really scary. I have no say that you're looking for a subsidy without telling us what went on the last 10 billion of the company, whether it's improved, whether it's invested, whether anything has been done, whether productivity has been raised and based on what. Please, these party directors are walking from one place to another. I'll remind you, yesterday a very alarming news came out, referring to the Democratic Party, that Petar Vulovic, who was formerly JAT's director, will again be JAT's director.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5946	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5947	Now they've objected, since we can't all the MPs achieve it, now the JAT Union has said -- if that man comes, who in 29 years' time has already taken that severance, who in the meantime formed a private firm, if you want to totally destroy JAT, let that gentleman be the director. So, ma'am, I'm finishing up, let me say, for wages in the memorandum projection, which I read here many times, so for 2009/ 2011 it turns out - wages in the republican and local public enterprises will move according to the evolution of productivity in these companies and the state of the labour market. It is unwarranted that employees of monopolies, who have significantly higher salaries, who receive identical jobs on the labour market, pay increases at an average rate. They've even got their own "golden parachute", that management, in case there's a change in NIS, how much severance in millions of euros these people need to receive. Why should it be applied...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5948	Ma'am, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5949	... in the market economy since 2009? Well, this is the simplest healthy logic, that wages should, I guess, be consistent with the company's success. But it's for the party registers. I ask you to look at what these funds have been spent on and let us know, because if it goes on like this, this is really an unprecedented robbery of the people with this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5950	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Marash, then Ambassador Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5951	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I have come to say that some members of the Rules of Procedure, first and foremost, are members of 147 and Article 52. For that, I must accuse the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the minister sitting here, who sent the Secretary of State to the Finance Committee. Here's what happened on the Finance Committee. We've received all 85 amendments submitted. The Secretary of State, Mr Guzian, who was sent by the Government and who is an economist by profession, only conveyed what he heard from his ministry, or from the Government's competent service, that 82 amendments are not legally possible and that there is really no point in talking about them, since we, the members of the Committee, can confirm that those who are members of the Committee, as reasonable people, did not want to consider amendments that, according to the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, are not legally possible. However, we are receiving a report from the Legislative Committee, which was also attended by the Secretary of State, Mr Guzian, where information says that 45 amendments are legally possible. In those 82 amendments, which we didn't take care of, indeed, there are a lot of meaningful amendments that we haven't had a conversation about. The amendments rejected on the Legislative Committee were rejected because they did not comply with the Budgetary System Act. I must tell you, Madam Minister, that responsibility to the government is to your ministry. How could someone misinformed, or what people in government who are in charge of assessing is something legally possible? How could you send a man to tell us that only three amendments are legal? I think it was irresponsible. What I'm saying is that we in the Finance Committee were able to discuss other amendments, we could discuss them, so perhaps, the Finance Committee, in accordance with Article 147, would adopt some more amendments and propose that the Assembly adopt it. Unfortunately, we were denied such a thing. Since we're out of time for this part, I just wanted to say something, too, about the Finance Committee. We've been told by Mr. Guzian that the subsidies to the railroad are for the reason that they should be raised. We thought, of course, you couldn't leave people without pay. What was the projection of the 2008 budget, it says best, and now we heard from Mrs Vesna Pesic that she checked and that the salaries were raised, so that's why she should. We really don't understand how someone can raise their wages? You raised their subsidy to 508 million to get their salaries, and, here, calculate what is 2 million and 200 000 euros – a third and more than what they spent on cars. Really, I don't think it's right that we're being deceived about one thing or another.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5952	It's about Mr. Shami, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5953	Madam President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Madam Minister, this is one of the many amendments that I find quite excessive and I think it was worth accepting. I've answered, in fact, to say something in principle about all 84 amendments. I don't remember any serious law that the Assembly passed and that, on that occasion, the government rejected all amendments. Not now in whose amendment it is, it is practically impossible that out of the 84 amendments that I have looked at, the maltenes, all the parliamentary groups, none of them are right and none of them can fix the law. It shows something else, shows an endless passion for the government, if you will, your law and your ministry, which does not feel any need to enter into any dialogue with this assembly. Excuse me, dialogue with the Assembly means that MPs write amendments, that the legislator accepts or does not accept the amendment. It's understandable to me that a number of amendments won't accept, but not one, not one, not five percent, not ten percent of the amendments submitted, and there are, as far as I've seen, far too many amendments, not okay. In some ways, I have deliberately reported on this amendment, which has not been submitted by my parliamentary group, or by the representatives of my parliamentary group, just to point out that it is totally unacceptable not to accept any amendments. We will also discuss the 2009 budget very soon. We shouldn't get into this serious business with bad manners like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5954	Mr. Marash, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5955	The Honorable Presidency, the same members of the Rules of Procedure. So here we have a government report, signed by Mirko Cvetkovic, where far more amendments have been assessed legally. I'm just saying, I don't want to take any more time, but we were really denied to discuss the amendments that you've assessed, legally possible and to suggest some more. As my predecessor said, only one amendment of three was adopted, which she submitted, on the Committee, of course, the Parliamentary Group of Minorities, and the rest we could not discuss. There are amendments that could fix this, just to make sure that when someone comes to the board to change you, you give the man the right information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5956	Mr. Krasic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5957	I didn't finish what I did, so now I'm taking the opportunity to say something about this amendment and what Mrs. Vesna Pesic said, and she sure told me everything exactly, that's what I have to tell you, and you know, ma'am, that everything she said is true. Anyway, to continue and find the necessary connection between this amendment and what I intend to say, so I don't get a warning. What's this about? So are our rates of tax or contribution well planned? Someone would say that those rates should be higher, because, by that logic of things, more resources will be provided, so there's no need for the state to be in debt. That would make sense somehow, but in practice, it doesn't make sense, you know. If more employment was provided, thus increasing the number of taxpayers, then, according to the system: grain per grain – cake, the matter could be arranged, possibly, even, to reduce that rate. However, we have problems with the ruling left in the National Assembly because they do not keep any promises. Just to remind you, after those epochal proposals to resuscitate Bor, to raise their hands from ore, and to deal with peanuts and furniture production, something similar has been said in Majdanpek. It has not been several months, Madam Minister, to inform you, at the time the Prime Minister said – we have been importing labour since 2005. Now, when you say here -- I'm going to employ 500,000 people, or the unemployment rate is down, we thought we increased them, I just remind you of what you were saying -- we're importing labour. Why? Because we have full employment in Serbia. When citizens say they don't work, how can they convince the government? They want to import another 150 to 200 thousand people from abroad, because there is a very expansion economy here, new workers are needed, because there are new capacities on each corner. It's not gonna happen. Of course it's a lie, everybody knows that. As a lie – a stranger came, 2,000 euros per head of a future employee, free investment, free location, free infrastructure, something similar to Kragujevac. I expect the government will only drive the Fiats since 2009. To conclude that only the Fiat vehicles produced in the Red Flag are Kragujevac, the state can buy. "BMV," "audi," "mercedes" -- forbidden. That you may enjoy the fruits of your work and your promises, and not make the citizens enjoy the fruits of your promises, not but that you may enjoy the fruits of your promises, that you may make your promises come true. Thus, the president of the Republic in an elegant suit, with a representative of the Italian company in a sweater, and it is torn up, signs a 700m-euro contract. Please, who can you convince? So then Blažko remembers, so he says – we have some problems, we also have to free railways, we have to travel free, we have to give them everything for free to get a job. What's the job going to be? Then the contract today, then tomorrow, then in a month, then a little tomorrow, then a little bit the day after tomorrow... A lie, a lie, a lie, a lie. Let me remind you, you have the Secretary of Defense. He took the severance money so he wouldn't work in the state service anymore. Do you know that? When he was in the federal government, some deputy there, so there was reconstruction, the state community, etc., he raised severance, 40 and I don't know how much pay. That means the state paid you off, that you don't work anymore. He -- he's like an MP, he's like a minister, and now he's like a minister, and then he's back to the state manger. We paid him off so he wouldn't be a civil servant anymore. The state cut off the money from the budget. Here, now he's got the villa, the driver, and he's got the commercial one – Shuki-Zikri, it's for hair. Please, what are you doing? Not to talk about these others, who also took severance supplies, so they came back to work in the state service. Can someone who works in the economy do that? He can't. Why? He's a expense. He's not a cost, he's a function. That's the thin difference, it's not the neck, it's the neck. So you don't want to cut it, but you don't, you're hungry all the time. The state, as it fulfils its obligations under mandatory insurance imposed by both the worker and the employer. Now we're going to do a little bit of that on the subject. What's this about? All citizens in employment must pay contributions to pension and disability insurance, it is similar with health care, but when that money enters that fund, then they become some strange criteria for the distribution of these funds. Since we have some modified Kaiser's system -- as much as it pays, it's being spent, well, eventually, the state pays something, when there's a smaller number of those that work, the whole system is counting. But the masters figured out how to do it. No longer important are some data that were important by 2003, now you have introduced some new points. It is not clear to anyone whether retirement is a job-based right or a social category. If you'd read the SRS program, you'd understand, but you won't read it. I'm telling you, you're gonna have to read and apply it. Remember what I told you. I have a reason to say you have to. First, you didn't want to volunteer, so you read, so you introduced, but, come on. What's going on now? Someone thought of it, so they say, pension can be determined like this, but then we have some categories. What categories? The ones they receive under the law of the prescribed minimum, so they create fiction – by law prescribed minimum, and then enter into the story and some percentage of how much it should be compared to something, but again in mass. It's like a social factor. Now someone's not going to make a correction based on that social factor, according to the law, but they're going with promises. You know what it's like with promises? A promise, a crazy joy, and it lasts for a while. If the state can't keep that promise, why does it keep other promises? That's an interesting thing. Who made that promise selection? You'll think about it, and you'll get the answer in an hour. Now let me open another topic for you. The second subject concerns consumption. Also, Serbian citizens should know, everything spent from the budget must be regulated by law. What are our laws prescribed for consumption? One of the major items is the salaries of employees in the country. That's 260,000 employees. Balinovac realized that, in some archaic terminology, he shared everyone who works in the civil service to civil servants, because they apply the Law on Administrative Procedure, and in another category, these are the undersigneds; they are really'set'. They were set up not to get any worse. The coffee cook - 15 thousand dinars, the driver - 16 thousand dinars, but the minister's advisor, you know that Milet the jerk, the "Mille Transition", he was a recycling adviser to Djelic, I guess the actor, he played the counselor very well, but how many months he received – how many cleaners in the National Assembly in a year. That's right, Hope. It's not your fault. It's Balinian's fault. He did so according to Mladja Dinkic's speech, because Mladjan Dinkic asked for a law to regulate the salaries of government officials, so that he could control the mass, because his mass is the cost, and then he realized that something was wrong, so a policeman, when he retires, must wait for a three-month solution because the state did not pay the pension and disability insurance contribution for him, and then he has to contact the poor person to pay, paperwork, to get a pension solution. It's a lot like you in the Labour Inspectorate. Remember the irony. In the Labour Inspectorate, who is driving, who controls it, the labour inspector, if retired, must also wait three months for ladies from the Ministry of Finance to have mercy, the Treasury, a resolute minister, in order to make a paper on how a fictitiously paid contribution is paid, so that the civil servant can exercise his right to retire. Yesterday, or the day before yesterday, I told you, if the state doesn't meet its obligations under the law, how can you chase a volcanoer? The Vulcan on the market has one dose of suspense, whether to tear the tires, whether to drill, whether a customer will come to him, whether to replace, how much he will charge, whether to give him a bill, or not to give him a bill, whether to give him a nice eye. He's got business uncertainty. What business uncertainty does the state have? Nothing. Whatever they write on this one here, this group votes, it becomes the law, and then the tax and the police, all the other organs, recalibrate them, bro, up to this amount. What's your business uncertainty? Will 127 MPs vote against you? You won't do that. Now you've got a new 20. That's why you keep it. There's a problem. In this bulky part of the budget, 100% should be shown that spending is based on the law, that the law prescribes what that consumption will be. In what way? As payment is prescribed for government officials, so criteria are known, so it's calculated. But in the budget we have this so-called. The software part, which also springs from the law, however, has some obligations that spring only under this law, but this law is a technical means. What do they essentially come from? From the program or the government's conclusion? What's going on here? A significant part of the funds, that's that program part of the budget, is investment in something. Who's it up to? From the coalition agreement. There's a lot of stuff going on and on. It's true, all that's true, don't tell me it's not true, so I was in the government, I know how coalition governments function. I'm sick of it, too, so I wanted to run away five times, like one of you gets sick, can't stand the criticism, so I'd like to run away, but you gave the bank, you got in the car, you got to take it. That's what politics is about. You're even responsible for society, even though you have nothing to do with this company. That's the kind of company you've got there. Now you've got these internal shivering, but these shakes are just for positions, money, cars, employment, etc. There are very interesting things about consumption here. There's something Mrs. Minister will think about until I get back to you, and that's a contract service. We never had that in our budget as an item, as something to show, but now it's very important. That's where all the guys come in. They're not photocopier repair services. There are also Hiber, and Vodnelic, and some experts with an exhaust program-writer, some viewings, drafts of the law, etc. They can write their position not from the expertise they have, but because they're close to some from abroad, and so something from abroad comes to us as a profession. Since Mrs. Pesic spent two minutes more, I'd like to buy you these 16 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5958	Thank you. The word is Zoran Nikolic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5959	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, I use the occasion, therefore, the amendment that it has submitted, among other things, and Mrs Vesna Pesic, which concerns the subsidies that are allocated to public enterprises, but not because of the amendment itself, but because of the response that came from the competent ministry, or the government, which should suggest to us MPs, but also to the general public, that the government has a clear strategy as it manages public enterprises. That, of course, is not the case and I will ask the Minister of Finance questions in that context. It seems to me that the government, absolutely, does not have a clear strategy. You said in your exposé that as long as you use scientific principles to create budgets, or rules used in finance, your conscience is calm, but I don't understand things here. In fact, I would remind you that this assembly passed the Law on the right to free action and the cash compensation that citizens are making in the privatisation process, and that was one of the very important promises of this coalition that is now being formed. I think we're done talking about pensions and that those who harshly deceive the public will no longer have the courage to come out here and defend their views. In fact, they have nothing to defend, except to confirm that they've roughly deceived the public, so in the context of budget rebalancing, we can also talk about the rebalancing of the promise. That promise, absolutely not. The pensioner's party cheated on its citizens. However, the campaign also claimed that privatising six companies would be free to share shares and that all citizens, close to five million, would apply for those free actions, receive, orientatively, an amount of about 1000 euros. The companies that were to be sold under this law are "NIS", "Telecom Serbia", "Electroprivreda Srbija", Public Air Traffic Company – Jat Airways, Public Enterprise "Nikola Tesla" and "Gallenika" Action Society. Today, we had the opportunity to read in the printed media the statement by the director of Jat Ervejz, Mr. Vlaisavljevic, that the company had received an offer from the "Nikola Tesla" Airport to buy part of the "Yat" property for 35m euros. This is a rather interesting situation now, because it seems to me that when you promised the citizens that these companies would be sold, and that, of course, was the desire and intention of the DSS, we should first find strategic partners who would invest in them and who would raise a portfolio of these companies, of which we would really benefit. We are now facing the fact that a company that is scheduled to be sold and found its strategic partner, which has not been able to find, by now, the founder of the state, is now publicly appearing as the buyer of another state-owned company, whose founder is also the state. A specific figure is mentioned here, I quote Mr Vlaisavljevic's words that a portion of the "Yat" property will be purchased for 35m euros. What part, what part, where did that 35 million figure come from? What is also said here is that there is a division in observing this issue in the government itself and that the Ministry of Economy and the Privatisation Agency advocates the sale of buildings in the country and abroad. We have had the opportunity to hear and read in the media that are owned by the "Jata", while the Ministry of Finance and Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic believe that "Yat" can recover without the sale of property. I would remind you, I know you know that the public that the Jat tender was called on July 31st, that a minimum price of 50m euros was established, that no one reported to buy the tender documentation and that the deadline had already expired at the end of September. So, you would do well to explain to us what the idea is, that one state firm is buying out another state firm, because you've expressed optimism that next year we're going to have investments, of course, by accepting, but, by my court, quite indifferently, that this financial blow, which comes to us, will not seriously hit us as some other countries and will not affect investments in the coming year. I'm afraid this is one of the first indicators that those real investors don't have and that you're trying, with some gymnastics, to make your promises come true now, which, in fact, you can't make. If we go with that logic, then the Elektroprivreda of Serbia could buy part of the NIS, so the associations could buy Telecom of Serbia, so everyone could show up as strategic partners of Galenici. Is that the sudden happiness you've been telling us about in your exposé, that investors appear that way, would that money actually go to the revenue side of the budget and do you think that you're covering the big deficit we have? All in all, it would be good for you to explain to both us and the public what is behind this, and what is absolutely certain, is that in this case, the collateral damage of Serbian citizens is that someone has largely deceived Serbian citizens for receiving votes. He promised that as soon as it came to power, citizens would be able to get 1,000 euros each, thus forcing millions, five million citizens to stand on counters and fill out certain forms. But on the first step, on the first step, we see that promise, just like the promise that the pension amount will be 70% of the average salary, will be nothing. You will owe the public a great debt, or you will be obliged to answer many questions in the future in the right and true way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5960	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Mr. Markicevic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5961	President-in-Office, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am reporting on the amendment still under way, which was submitted by Mrs Vesna Pesic and a group of LDP MPs, for the real truth and clarification of some information that I think is from the morning numbers of the press, yesterday or today, read and commented here, and because it is a serious one, so to speak, to the state system, such as the Serbian Railways. I don't think we should warn anyone here that railways are every country's pride. If the Japanese railway has a donation from the Serbian state, then you know what every railway means to every country. For the sake of the truth and the public, not the spinning of candidates, future candidates for functions in the Serbian Railways, through certain party votes, who have the ambition to run for office, because of the few tens of thousands of people who work for the poor and small salaries of an honorable and responsible job, for the pride of those people who are railways, or for being railway children, I want to bring some facts here. The public company "Serb Railways" currently has 645 road vehicles, of which 330 passenger cars, cargo vans and vehicles are 300. The average age is over 15 years, and we have a large number of road vehicles produced in the 1980s, so it's necessary to rebuild the fleet. Because of the age of these vehicles, over 15 years of age, railways have high costs. Only one data, during 2007, was allocated to repair these vehicles by 57.4m dinars, which is over 700 000 euros, and for the first 10 months of 2008 – 53.5m, or over 650m euros. About half a year ago, ten directors of the sector's "Serb Railways", for the purposes of their services, applied for the procurement of new 117 road vehicles, but after the agreement of the Public Procurement Administration, I repeat, the consent of the Public Procurement Administration, and for the director of the administration and the people working there, we cannot say that our friends, on the proposal of the Director-General, the Management Board of the Railways of Serbia, made a decision on the purchase of 70 road vehicles, of which, 28 trucks and cargo vehicles, 26 passenger vehicles and 16 vans for the purposes of organisation of work in the whole Serbia's territory, therefore, "the railways of Serbia", for all of the working units, as I understood, in all of Serbia. Some daily newspapers could interpret it as being Director Sarancic, or about a dozen executives, directors, that they bought all these vehicles for themselves. A public call, a tender where everyone could participate, has been published in "Official Messenger" number 85 since 16.09.2008. Of the ten parties, according to different models, road vehicles, the Commission for the selection of the most favourable bidder has decided on the most favourable bidder, of which for only four parties, due to only one arrival, or high price, the procedure has to be renewed. Inaccurate information that has been speculated in some daily newspapers and televisions these days, that two car-specific values of 106 000 euros are already far cheaper because, according to the plans, car prices are being added to car-prices for four years. Also, there are no comments that there is no money for the crossing. I must remind you that only after 2000, and Serbian citizens must connect who was then the head of the "Serb Railway", these spring crossings have, in general, started to work and provide, not to slow down that there are many more black spots where, unfortunately, there are still accidents. Over sevenm euros have been spent for these needs. Therefore, it is clear that at the time the requirements for the procurement of road vehicles arrived, given that it was immediately after the elections, it did not know who would be headed after six months by the Railways of Serbia and the Management Board and that the decision was taken by the commission, or by the governing board forming the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Here something is imputed to New Serbia personnel, who are still in some positions, and to our president. I can tell you that JP Railways of Serbia has only one member of the NS. There are many of them from many parties sitting here and I expect them to come forward and open, in front of the citizens, comment, as I comment. It is clear that in recent days some media have become party votes. I explained why. Because it is a big race and a fight for functions, since the two ruling parties did not agree on who they belong to "The Railways of Serbia". New Serbia is the opposition and that the New Serbia man is still the director of the "Serb Railway" cannot interpret differently than that the ruling coalition has no better fit, or could not agree. He's waiting to surrender his duty. The earlier attempt to produce the affair, with the purchase of passenger furniture from Sweden, had a purely political background, because these vehicles, through reduced fuel costs and savings achieved, had paid off already during the first year of traffic, but unfortunately, it bothered someone. So it is strange that all this time no information is published about what is good on the railway is done in relation to the inherited situation, i.e. since Velimir Ilic was the minister of capital investment and later the minister of infrastructure. Just to tell you that the restructuring, this most painful measure, was done in the Railways so that the number of workers was reduced by eight thousand, income twice, with such a number of reduced workers, that the number of correct locomotives was increased in traffic, that the Railway returned by these four and a half years from its own incomes over 170m euros in inherited debts, that the purchase of new freight wagons was made for the first time in 25 years, that there were no strikes as before and that after the formation of this government of the Republic of Serbia, in which the NS does not participate, the railway still works without any problems. This means that NS personnel, few of whom are there, are not obstructing, because they care more about the functioning system of the Railway than their political membership. In the end, I want to say that I told Mrs. Pesic that I would discuss her amendment and that I did not want her to understand that I was discussing what she had come out of it, but that she would be present to make sure of some information, that the information was not received from the daily newspapers that are being purchased, and then we comment. They're not important directors here, they're transient. They're not important ministers here, and they're passing men. And we MPs are MPs at the moment. Tens of thousands of people working there are important for small wages. You don't have to work over their backs and their miserable lives and small wages, and honest and responsible do that job, because I claim to be a railroadman, that's how these people realize it, that's pride. Perhaps some should answer why in Belgrade's Building Directorate, where they said they would now no longer talk about it, the two parties agreed that the director and deputy director would have a double signature. That's how I understand it, and I'll explain if there's any need for it. So, I'm talking about building land in Belgrade, "The Port of Belgrade", "Beku", etc., so you'll see that what Mrs. Pesic was saying was another smoke bomb fired by Canak, Comrade Nenad, in order to cloud the essence of some data coming from daily newspapers.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5962	According to the Rules of Procedure, first Mr. Velija Ilic, then Mr. Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5963	Dear People's MPs, I am very sorry that there is a major problem with Serbia, about Railways, says Mrs Pesic, who is not currently in the hall. She comes by here in passing, maybe when she goes to the market, she visits us a little bit, sees, looks, smiles and leaves. Mrs. Pesic understands, there are her fellow pensioners in the park, so she sits with them for two minutes, she says something, and she doesn't know what she's saying. I think her time has run her over, lost her compass, and she doesn't know what she's talking about here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5964	Mr. Ilic, please take care of your dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5965	I can't let one big problem of Serbia, "The Railways of Serbia", speak of someone who has no idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5966	Every MP is competent.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5967	Let's not get angry when someone puts out unargumented facts and tells all kinds of nonsense.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5968	In the qualification of Mrs Pesic's personality, please take care of her dignity and dignity of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5969	You heard what this is about. Vehicles, vans, trucks, poly vehicles, service vehicles are purchased, because the existing ones are 15, 18, 20, 30 years old and so on. And technically they can't be maintained anymore. Now someone's seen the vehicle, so they think it's passenger cars. Let her look at how much she was driving there. So, the Management Board of the Railways of Serbia has made a decision on procurement, has done its job; it is a regular procedure to renew part of the vehicle every year. He's being repetitive. You can't do it all at once. Why is the Government subsidizing? In all countries in the world, railways are subsidized, in England, both in France, in Sweden, and in all countries, the most developed countries in the world. Why are the Serbian Railways interested in Serbia? Because they're tying up the whole metal complex. Serbia's Railways, in the metal complex system, are the biggest consumers and connect more than 150,000 workers to themselves. There's also the Ironstone and the Shinvoz and Gossa and the Kings Wagons, so I don't list all the companies that work in the Railway System, the Low Machine Industry and all the others who follow that system. So, the state, vice versa, from the entire railroad system, as the main consumer, full budget, employs 150 thousand people, 150 thousand salaries are received in the railway system. That's why Railways, like a big consumer, are tied to small and medium-sized enterprises, many companies, to every state under subsidies. The "Serbian Railways" had a problem with war, a long period of sanctions and ten years of indemnity. You know that before I arrived at the Ministry of Railways, there was a strike every month.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5970	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5971	Four and a half years wasn't a strike. The situation calmed down completely and stabilized, and the railroads stood on their feet. The government, one, the other, and this one, is now doing everything possible to keep the railroads on their feet. There's a complex frame, there's a complicated frame, there's people who are experienced, they're messengers; we don't have political functions on Railways, they're extremely professional functions. So please, let's not talk about railroads by heart, just by stealing something out there, taking it; there's nothing to take, to add. It's better if we talked about the airport, if anyone sold land at the airport, if anyone took...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5972	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5973	... There, four million euros, how the jeeps of these couples were purchased, how many apartments for various politicians, etc....
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5974	Mr. Ostojic, the replica, and then we'll give it a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5975	Gentlemen of New Serbia, yes, every country should be proud of its rails, but Serbia is not proud of its rails. Among other things, and for Mr. Sarancic, whom you installed during the first government of Vojislav Kostunica. Professionality, and do you know how many times Vesna Pesic is more than the host of Sarančić to run the Railways? How you're not ashamed to come out here and say that about the woman that the professor can be to you. As one MP would say, if you could repeat your master's work by snorkeling, you should get a doctorate. We here say that an increase in the 508m-euro railway subsidy, which is about six million euros, at a time when the same railway spends 2.2m euros, is not normal. We, as liberals, are against subsidies, we are for privatisation. I know why this battle is now for the Railways. Only in Belgrade, only on Topcider, the Railways have 700 ha and the battle between them has started, apparently, to retain influence on it, subsidies and this kind of waste of money, which we are against, so we have proposed an amendment. The amendment wasn't adopted. All right, none adopted. We explained why we think the Railway should not receive those six million euros, or 508 million dinars of increase. Vesna Pesic, as a good student, asked around and was said to be on the payroll, that wages should be increased and all is well. It is not normal that when we all make a decision, the majority will make it, that the citizens of Serbia give the six million euros of Railways, they spend this much money on those cars. They could have waited until tomorrow, or maybe it was some commission, so yours, who has a signature, has passed, so he has to sign off on it, with severance. Why was he in such a hurry? Don't talk about crime and corruption, you who sat with Kostunica and Dinkic in two governments. May I remind you that while you were the minister of the government, the Serbian State lottery was transformed into a stockholder society...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5976	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5977	... That means no tender for public procurement, it's all private. There's no privatisation through auction or tender, but there's a free contract. That's what you did. Don't say it now, it's this one next to me, but I have nothing to do with it. The government is government, so that's how it's supposed to work, like a team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5978	It's time to take a break, so I'll ask you, Mr. Ilich, to wait, we'll start with you after the break, at 3:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5979	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. In the morning, the debate was suspended in detail on Article 1, i.e. Amendments with correction, which were submitted jointly by MPs Vesna Pesic, Nenad Prokic, Slobodan Maras and Kenan Hajdarevic. The amendment was discussed by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 13(2). Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5980	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find it rather unserious to continue the debate on the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008 without an authorised representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. But if that's how you solved it, it only proves how much this government really cares about this draft budget law. When you look at the draft budget law, you ask the question of what kind of country we live in, is prosperity here, has the global economic crisis bypassed us? Why does a budget like this, when all countries, far richer than us, have a far more developed economic, economic and financial system, turn to savings, and we turn to waste again? For Article 2. The government says it is not in line with the Law on the Budget System, and I do not even agree with that claim by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because all amendments submitted by the Parliamentary Group Forward, Serbia-Serbian Progressive Parties, are agreed, interlocked and meet the conditions necessary under the Budget System Law. All it takes is for someone to sit down, take a closer look at them, and they'll find that it's actually another budget of the Republic of Serbia. To read this article, which I asked for – the funds needed to finance the results set out in Article 1 of this Act and contain the budget deficit (23,888,288,463 dinars), the financial assets (21,896,442,000 dinars) and the principal debt expenditure (46,334,000 dinars), will amount to about 92 billion dinars, or somewhere around 1,100,000 euros. Let's take a look at what that payment of the debt of 46,334,000 looks like. It is said that debt payments to domestic lenders – 36,635,000, payments to foreign creditors and debt payments based on activated guarantees. I would ask the finance minister to explain to me what guarantees have been activated, shown on the bulky side of the Republic of Serbia's budget. I'm interested in whom these guarantees have been issued, is he who has failed to fulfil his obligations, and has given the Republic of Serbia a guarantee for him, intended to return the funds to the budget? These are the questions I am looking for answers to, because, here, already in the next article 3. It writes to which all guarantees will be issued for new loans, or they have already been issued on some earlier basis, given that this is a budget rebalance. The minister said we couldn't be too in debt, because in 2008, we're less in debt than we're paying back. So, according to the budget projection you gave, we're returning about 46 billion. If only Article 1 is looked at, non-financial assets expenditure – 28 billion, purchases of financial assets – 21 billion, if we look at the entire National Investment Plan being financed from the loan, the question is how much do we actually owe the state? It says here that the amount of 92 billion 118 million dinars will be provided from privatisation incomes, loans, donations, financial assets of the budget and through the broadcasting of government securities. Now, if you've already indicated what amount you're going to finance from these revenues, I'm interested in what kind of income is that based on privatisation? It is over a billion and 100m euros, when it comes to the amount, so in 2008, two months before the end of the fiscal year. I'm interested, so now you can give a pretty accurate answer, of that 92 billion, how much is out of privatisation? I say there is not even 5% of this amount, because there is no privatised "The Oil Industry of Serbia", from "Yat" Dinkic dispersed strategic partners, it cares about "Electroprivreda of Serbia". It's going to go a little longer than two months, you don't have that much time to make such a significant income in the next two months. As for the loan, I don't know how far you've managed to lend the state, but I do know that all the credits you've raised so far have, mostly, been tied to the eurobor; there have been terrible disturbances on the financial market throughout Europe, including in the world. I'm interested in whether it's worth more credit in these moments, especially since we can't determine what the price of that capital we're going to use as a loan is? Donations, it's a story that's been going on for eight years and I think it's funny that it's more in the Republic of Serbia's budget as a serious item. We could put that as other incomes. The financial assets of the budget through the broadcasting of government securities of value. What is broadcasting state records of value than the same thing as printing money is absolutely the same, because the effect is exactly the same. You take your head off and say it's wrong, but now I'm interested, why are we going to broadcast securities of value when it says in the first article -- spending on the purchase of financial assets, we're going to broadcast our securities of value to buy others? Is that it? It seems to me that's it, so this whole article is 2. The bill, in fact, is the basis to justify the real deficit that exists in the budget, which is 92 billion dinars on various grounds. I don't know how you'll do it, and if you succeed, under what conditions you'll be in charge of the state, and I told you, even when the debate was in principle, the biggest problem in the Republic of Serbia's budget is that our entire economic system is relying on imports of goods of broad consumption. I've set a classic example. Just look at the income side of the value added tax based on imported goods, look at the revenue side of the Republic of Serbia's budget from the sale of domestic goods and you'll understand everything. Since the Government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to apply the Foreign Trade Agreement unilaterally, I am also interested in how realistic the revenue side of the budget, i.e. the changes and additions of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget, what will be the losses of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget? When you try to look at it, and I believe you in government don't have the right information, and you still haven't been able to see all the facts, because time is going, I think, a little step ahead of you, you'll come to the same conclusion. If you try to make one of these budgets, in just a month, offer us as a 2009 budget, then I can say – God help us. (For the entire duration of the speech of MP Veroljub Arsic, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5981	Anyone else want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5982	Mrs. Comic, Mrs. Slavica Djukić-Dejanović seems a bit, to me, to be wrong, perhaps on purpose, may not have been on purpose, but this one that was before me, twenty days ago, stole a used computer and a secretary. The computer's back. Yes, it is. You don't believe it? He took both the computer and the secretary from our office and went to Tom Nikolic. As far as I can tell, there are some elements for pathology. Otherwise, he is currently at the stage to represent himself as a national MP just because he would not answer, along with Tomislav Nikolic, since he was also an authorized person to sign during the election and election campaign, and he signed those orders there. Of course, when Tomislav Nikolic left, he stayed a little while to collect the documentation, and then he went, so he went, even, the clerk who was the accountant. That's your problem now, you're the government. Your problem is the mayor of Zrenjanin, your problem is Bojan Pajtic, your problem is the mayor of Indjija, your problem is and Tomislav Nikolic. You've heard these citizens applaud, we heard "The Voice of America" through an open window, etc. Mrs. Comic understands what this is about, I know she swallows dumplings, but what can I do, that's her position, and she's gonna have to put up with this kind of stuff. The point in this amendment is that Article 2 does not exist at all, that is, to be precise, that old member of the Budget Law remains. Of course, I can't influence you to vote for this amendment, because citizens can give suggestions, objections, to propose something to some parliamentary group, but to have a citizen come to sign and say it's an amendment, and to get it into the process, I think it's impossible. It's all possible here, unfortunately, because since this kind of democracy came, we've had this situation. But to return to the subject, because I have a monologue, or dialogue with a lady who represents the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What Serbian citizens need to understand, an entire operation called rebalancing, is how to increase the deficit, and only the deficit has been increased. The government's informing us that they had to amend the Budget Law because the original revenues had increased, could have been a reason to reduce the deficit. But we now have a situation that has increased, allegedly, the original revenues, but the deficit has increased, from 42 to 45, if I'm not mistaken. Did I make a mistake? From 41 to 45. Okay, you'll understand, with the numbers, I don't stand well. So, the deficit has increased. Now the question is, is it really a deficit or isn't it a deficit? It's basically 92 billion, but it's already another operation, now I'm not going to repeat myself, I explained it to Dinkic two years ago, and he figured it out nicely. According to this proposal, Article 2. The bill, you say that the deficit will be covered by the privatisation incomes. Now let's see that too. So there's something else to sell, it's going into the privatisation process, and when it's sold, the state needs to get the money, and with that money, it's going to cover this. No, it doesn't exist. Or, if that happens, then something that costs 100 to sell for 15 to raise these funds, apparently. However, when this government was created, after a few days there were talks about the problems with the budget, with the government, etc., the Prime Minister, and the former finance minister, he said -- you know, we have problems with the budget, during this year we have not sold anything. That's his statement, all the media published it. He says we have a budget problem and we haven't sold anything yet. So that part of the budget is filled by selling. There is important that peasant household policy – what is sold. When does a peasant sell something? Why is he selling? But we have a process here. Selling is done, exorcising workers, coming new owner, renting it, or making production plants some warehouses, or maybe just wanting a strategic position, like, a brewery in Pancheva, which is privatized, closed, since it's downtown. I wouldn't be surprised if they broke down and sold for a new business space, because there's a much bigger profit, and there's a brewery already in Zajecar since he bought a man two or three brewers. It's business moves. We can't influence the business moves of businessmen. They act on market conditions. Where he can make more money, he does that job there. But we can talk about the state, what it sells. The next source to cover the budget deficit. I expected the privatisation revenues to be something that comes regularly, you said it was an exception, if there was an exception, there would be, if there wasn't, what to do. Next, he says, loans. Why loans? Why credits to cover the budget deficit? You take credit to replace something you don't have. That loan should come back. How are you going to repay that loan? Something you have. How will you have, when you destroyed the foundation for the estate? When you've destroyed the foundation for the estate, then you've promoted the estate. Very simple. A donation. There's a problem. If the OSCE gives you a donation, I don't know if the OSCE will give you a donation. I don't know who would make a donation here. Ma'am, I don't know if you're familiar with that. The Hague tribunal broke like a pumpkin. They no longer have the money to pay these witnesses who go there, but are financed by Rasim Ljajic. Do you know that Rasim Ljajic is funding The Hague Tribunal? You don't know. Rasim Ljajic is the largest government in this country. He's the longest minister. You can all change, Rasim Ljajic is there. He is now the UN tribunal's chief financier, through his committee, the National Co-operation Council, and he pays the ticket. You don't trust me? Here's Mr. Ljubisa Petkovic. He was reportedly arrested here to be taken urgently to The Hague. When they said, well, we're taking him, but, come on, pay the ticket, they said – no, we won't pay the ticket. Rasim Ljajic had to open up. He paid his ticket to transfer him to The Hague. When he came to The Hague, they all grabbed their heads in The Hague, they said, "Aman, what is this man doing here, who brought this man here?" They tell them, so you wrote a warrant. They're responding -- yes, we are, but what's he doing here, we'll only have a disaster here with him. In order to cover what you messed up, he had to lie in prison for four months, neither guilty nor due. That's our authority. That's the dentist Ljajic. Do you understand? Tax bonds are financed by The Hague tribunal. Why? Based on what law, on what provisions of the Constitution? You're funding the Hague tribunal. A donation? Who gives you a donation? I know these donations are now directed towards Tomislav Nikolic, to finish this dirty work, and he has received very important donations. Those donations will be considered by someone else, and you could initiate the procedure from where he received these donations, but you can't, since Boris Tadic will wipe you all out in a row there. Financial assets of the budget and through the broadcasting of government securities of value. In the last place is the main instrument that finances the deficit. How? Some banks are obliged to buy government securities out of value, and in order for the state to secure money, it must give them far more interest than the one on the market. That's what I'm saying unprofessionally, so my voters can understand me. Every year, the values of these charters are being broadcast, and in this way the obligations are essentially being overrun. Banks are being grabbed to buy these securities out of value because interest is good and because they pay good money. Probably, there's supposed to be some kind of deficit. Probably, some deficit and going out of the country to market with its securities is needed, but is this the extent and whether this should be talked about 60 days before the end of the budget year? Now you're back to square one again. When you raise your hands and vote for budget rebalancing, you literally say, yes, Boris Tadic, you were right to spend far more than the budget was planned and we honor you by voting and allowing you to spend this supplement too. This will make a budget good position for the next financial year, as the budget of next year can never be lower than the budget for the current year. So we come to the fact that our government is both the cause and effect of inflation and everything that hinders normal economic life in our country. Then comes the second item of the agenda – write-off, rest, etc. And so, Jovo, again. There's a newspaper, the media that's supposed to cheat, there's a Fiat, there's this, there's that, there's no need to talk about Eulex, because we have a Nathalex, there's no story about Eulex. We must not talk about the Statute of the Autonomous Province yet, about the dispersion, about the destruction – no, we just have to be nice, cuddly, cultural and merciful, in order not to offend the government's representative in the National Assembly. Of course, it can only go away if there are copies to it. They're not born, they're answering themselves, you know. Therefore, Article 2 of this Amendment and Supplement Act is dangerous. Why? Because we are presented that something is necessary and necessary on the side of the budget expenditure that the government has not convinced us that there is legal coverage, that there is a legal obligation, other than what it has told us – it is the price of a coalition agreement and the fact that there is such a configuration of the government. So every feud has to be satisfied, so when all the feuds are satisfied, if nothing remains, and some legal obligations need to be fulfilled, then we're going to project a deficit. Practically, through rebalancing, you who vote for it, you only increase the deficit and nothing more, from 41 to 45 billion, and this second is all about projection. One year Dinkic cheated on us. He blew up the budget, so when the end of the year came, he said, well, we didn't spend that much, we were thrifty. They won't say it's abnormally imagined, no - we were thrifty. This is all possible when it comes to the budget, but there is no final bill for 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005. What you have on the Internet, it didn't pass in the Assembly, no final bill bill was passed for that year. That's not what you're showing. Why? That's where you need to see what consumption was like. This audit institution won't come back to life yet, be sure of that. It should be a defense against our government's illegal and irrational behaviour.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5983	Anyone else want a word? The People's Messenger, Munir Poturak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5984	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, I would just like to draw attention to Mr Krasic's statement of facts earlier. First of all, it is not true that Mr. Rasim Ljajic is a dentist. He's a doctor of medicine. Someone else is a dentist, which you know better than anyone else. Other things are not true, above all, about the financing of the Hague indictees. The gentleman you mentioned volunteered, and whether or not the map was funded, I don't know. And if he did, he should be, and he needs it for our people. I think you've been fighting from the beginning for all the people on some list to be charged with proving their innocence to help, and these people were given full financial assistance, both to the family and to them, that they could defend themselves with honor. Please, because of all of us here, especially because of us being treated as national minorities, it's no matter what we say from this pay phone, for these people, whether these are people who respect the state, the law and the places where they defend this state and the ministry. I don't think it's right to call from here, in this way, people who are honorably in this country, at first, to defend the dignity and interest of the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5985	National MP Zoran Krasic is looking for a word, a basis for replication. Here you go, Article 101. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5986	Mrs. Comic, you heard him mention me. My predecessor made a mistake. Let's get in line. If it's a dentist, it doesn't matter, in the end. I'm sorry, I was wrong, you're satisfied, you're killing me, if you have to. I have to tell you, I haven't talked about national minorities at all, that's the first thing. The other thing is, you didn't understand anything about me. In this assembly, a Law on assistance to families and indictees in front of The Hague tribunal was passed. That law doesn't apply. Do you know that? It is not applicable because Mladjan Dinkic said: "I will not apply this law", so we have initiated proceedings before the Constitutional Court, I, in fact, did not, Beljanski, Vojin Dimitrijevic and these have initiated the procedure, and I, as deputy chairman of the Legislative Committee, went to defend the Law, so the Constitutional Court, before organising the debate, already brought a temporary measure and suspended the application of the Law and that law is not applicable. Helping families and defendants doesn't exist under the law. I was very specific about one thing only, that The Hague tribunal is no longer paying transportation costs for witnesses of the prosecution who are going to The Hague. Very precise. You went out and you said something, and I didn't talk about it at all. Then I told you that Mr. Ljubisa Petkovic did not go voluntarily, as you speak, but came, so they packed him up and took him away to witness the prosecution, so our state said – well, we bring him in as you ordered, but will you pay for his trip. They say no, and then "open" Rasim Ljajic. These are indisputable facts, I don't know why you're complaining about it. You have to ask the UN Attorney's Office to pay you back. When they saw him there, they grabbed their heads and said – what Serbia brought this man, so to cover their stupidity, he had neither to blame nor to be in a detention unit for four months. Do you understand what you're talking about? How can you rephrase this to me when you have no paper, no proof, no fact, and then throw it in me? I attack the righteous Rasim Ljajic? Whatever I've got to attack him, I'm attacking this move of his, a concrete move. You're telling me to accuse honest members of national minorities. I didn't mention national minorities, what are you talking about? Are you a spokesman for B92? What else can we talk about?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5987	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 2. I submitted a draft amending and supplementing law on the 2008 budget of the Republic of Serbia before the SRS Parliamentary Group, an amendment proposed in Article 2, erasing the words "privatization incomes, credits". The draft law amending and supplementing the budget deficits of the Republic of Serbia and the payment of debt in 2008 provides for the 2nd article, which reads as follows: "The funds needed to finance the results set out in Article 1 of this Act and contains the budget deficit (23.888.28.463), the expenditure for the purchase of financial assets (21.896.442,000 dinars) and the expenditure based on the repayment of the principal debt (46.334.065,000 dinars)", I read this data for the public's sake, 'extended 92.118.795.463 dinars and will be provided from privatisation income, credit, donation, financial assets and through the broadcasting of state securities of value'. The amendment proposed erasing the words "privatization incomes" and saying "credit", to exclude the possibility that privatisation revenues should be included in the original revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget, because these are revenues to be placed in development funds. As for the loan, at this point, when Serbia has a huge external debt, close to $30 billion, further borrowing would be devastating for our society and the state. The government is proposing to the National Assembly to reject this amendment, with the following explanation: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is fundamentally contrary to Article 10, paragraph 2, point 3), which provides that the general part of the deficit budget must contain resources for its financing. If that amendment were to be accepted, real resources would be left behind to finance the proposed deficit." Ladies and gentlemen, our authorities, led by the yellow company, adopted a set of laws in mid-June 2001 and introduced a new model of privatisation in Serbia. In the period from 2002 to 2007, 2,190 companies were sold, including minority packages of 493 companies from the state action fund. These companies were sold for about 2.7 billion euros. Based on this data, but much more on the experience of practice, the conclusion is that the privatisation process is carried out in a non-domestic and very unfair manner, so most new owners can freely say that they received from the Serbian state social, i.e. the state capital of Serbian enterprises and other privatisation entities on a gift. This new privatisation model implemented by our owners has caused enormous damage to the citizens of Serbia. Everything was sold at prices far lower than the real ones, and a lot of the workers were out of a job. It's funny to talk about social programs. I will list several examples of unfair privatisations in Leskovac, a city I live in, which have left a mark on the economy of this city and whose consequences will be felt by many years of population. Longtime self-proclaimed experts, as an example of successful privatisation, have instructed the privatisation of the Chemical Industry "Health" from Leskovec. A terrible truth is hidden from the public. The privatisation of Health was performed among the first in Leskovac, of course, first to sell what was best. "Health" has been sold at a price that is shameful to say, for only 3.5m euros. At the moment of privatisation, supplies of finished products were worth around 10m euros. It should be noted that then "Health" had an excellently equipped fleet, buildings in excellent condition, technology, license rights, patents and everything that characterizes a successful company of enormous value. Everything is donated to the new owner for only 3.5m euros. At the moment of privatisation, the work of the family supported more than 2,000 workers. He's doing more than 800 workers in Health today. The textile industry was something where Leskovac was recognizable, both in Serbia and the world. After privatisation, no textile factory works, neither Letex, nor any other, and as far as workers are concerned, each one is now working on several workers, mostly without profit. The largest hotel, tourist and catering company in Leskovac was sold for about 80m dinars, or about 1m euros. As part of this company, there are several restaurants, two hotels, one motel, around which is a set of land worth about 120 million dinars. Also, a lot of workers are out of work, with funny social programs for voluntary leaving work. The Tomako factory used to produce high-quality conditioning products. After privatisation, the new owner, in order to get the workers to leave work on their own, instructed them to work in facilities outside the company headquarters, at the mill, where there was no business. To get there, they had to make travel expenses that they had nothing to cover, because they didn't receive the profits. This is just a few examples of privatisation in Leskovac. All other privatisations in Serbia have been carried out in a similar way. The situation we're in right now is not at all favourable. The money received from privatisation has not made Serbia any more modern, neither in terms of infrastructure, nor in other indicators that would attract investors. Especially bad is the situation when it comes to administration, because the process of obtaining various permits is debt and slow, and all of this needs to be added to great corruption at all levels. It was precisely most of the privatisation revenue that went to fund the same administration. Now we want to increase the administration, which is the result of the settlement of the post-coalization. Given the need for funds to finance the budget deficit, the debt was paid back in 2008, large, the government wants to re-indemnify itself through the loan. We all know that we're already over-indebted and that future generations are going to have to pay back all of this that the current government of charity is spending. Production is systematically destroyed in this country, many products of general consumption are imported, as it is a strong import lobby, and it is clear that when there is no production, employment opportunities are low, so party personnel are taken care of in state authorities, in boards, with enormously high salaries, and taxpayers, citizens of Serbia, have to endure all of this. How long?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5989	Anyone else want a word? Yes, MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The SRS parliamentary group is available for another seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5990	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I won't talk about the monkey, he's tied up, I'll tell you about this problem we're discussing today, i.e. about the budget. When we discussed in principle, I focused on a few points, but I said that when I discussed the amendments, I would actually talk about the problem that is present at the moment, and it's about the budget. So I ask the Minister one question: did the audit houses, or the audit institution that was to be proposed by the Assembly, and not the Government, carry out their task? We know that the quality of the audit institution depends on how the budget will be created, the climate and stability of the budget will be created, the field for positive economic investment will be created and, ultimately, it will be a fight against corruption and crime. It seems to me that the audit house chosen by the Government is the one -- "the cadium sues you, the cadiya judges", which doesn't bring certain important results, or the truthfulness of what needs to be shown, and you know that even at the level of the locals, in the municipalities, we also don't have the right budget, but they are afraid that the audit houses are going through that municipal budget. Ladies and gentlemen, what's also very important is that if I look at the diagram that I've made, here is income and expenditure, it's like looking at one hive, so you see that there are bees on one side, and on the other side of the drones. Can bees endure all the time to bring in income and overcome drones? I think it's impossible in this respect, in Serbia. For what? If you look from the north to the south and from the south to the north, no business organization today works, except for three or four economic operators who, in a way, work and can export their goods. The rest of what you're saying in this encrypted document, to call it a bookbook, which you've coded with numbers to display income, and, on the other hand, to show the expenditure, that's a large number of those who suck up this budget, because they're non-productive activities, starting with the National Assembly, the ministries, not to count. So everything involved in the expenditures of this budget. You didn't specify where it would be charged and in what way. You keep mentioning – we will charge by tax, i.e. that this will result in an inflow of income. As Professor Vojislav Seselj said in 2001, "the sheep are cut once during the year". If you cut her multiple times, she'll be missing. You cut privates, or you take, so it's impossible for them to restore both their resources and production plants, so they can help realize this income. What is also very important, I would ask the chairman to calm down. I think they're uninterested because they don't have any amendments to this law, so they probably don't care at all. You are not interested in these 80m euros, as long as it takes to cover the pensions of agricultural producers. You are not interested in this food industry, which has been destroyed in Serbia. You are not interested in raising the question, because I remember well that Ilic raised the issue of agricultural sowing during this period, and the minister, when he came out for a pay phone, says he knows when the crop is and when it is harvesting. I don't think you do, because it took a certain amount of resources to determine. How long do you think it takes a farmer to sow a hectare of wheat? You don't know that. You can't know because you're not going into that matter. You say the subsidies came. You can't say that, because I'm one of the big manufacturers and meat and food. Therefore, I know well that no subsidies have been paid since May, especially subsidies related to the purchase of agricultural tools. So, all this stuff you said, all this stuff you're saying, if a peasant took this to read and sit down, as we usually say in the village, at the gates, and he was crying, he couldn't feed you and us, because you're actually sucking it like leeches. He can handle a leech, but he can't take as many leeches as you've done in this expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of my presentation are coming, but you've given the village and the peasant nothing, what you promised in the election campaign, and you promised to hire half a million. Where are you going to hire them, to whom, when no economic operator works? I'm talking about the economy in Capco, the chemical industry doesn't work, the biggest mineral fertilizer factory doesn't work at all, and the workers get some social. First they get 15 grand, then eight grand, and now they get nothing. You talked about the period before 2000, how companies functioned, I'm done. Well, it worked because they worked. During that period, in the government of national unity were Serbian radicals, when it was Serbia's greatest rebirth, it was the real government, headed by Professor Vojislav Seselj. I keep dropping this bychetin icon. I have to tell you, there's this monkey I couldn't show you this morning, where he's usually locked up when his boss comes to Bicettin.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5991	Before we move on to the next amendment, I am notifying the National Assembly, based on Article 85. The Rules of Procedure, that today we will work after 18 hours, by discussion in particular, given that there are over 80 amendments. We're on the tenth amendment right now. But not after 20 hours, as agreed with the MPs, no matter what I don't have in my Rules of Procedure to tell you. The deal is among the presidents of the parliamentary groups to extend the work so much. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. On Article 3, amendments to the same text were submitted by MPs Dusan Maric and Stefan Zankov. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5992	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The bill, which envisions the state of Serbia issuing guarantees for foreign loans of billions and 100m euros. Since most of these guarantees have already been issued, this amendment has more meaning in some symbolic protest, due to the fact that Serbia is over-indebted and because of the fact that it has been uncontrollably in debt in recent years, especially since 2003. In 2003, the external debt of the Republic of Serbia amounted to 12 billion and 300 million dollars, currently amounting to slightly more than 28 billion. If borrowing continues at this pace, Serbia cannot avoid a situation that economists call debt slavery. In what situation Serbia is in, enough is the fact that in 2008, only for interest payments on loans, Serbia should allocate 150m euros. The debtor is not a free man to the end, the debt state is also not to the end a free state, especially if he owes someone who is stronger than her and who is hostile, as is the case with Serbia. The longer the debt, the less freedom. I will now comment on some economic developments between January and the end of July 2008 in this bill. It is said that the growth rate during the first seven months of this year, the annual inflation from August 2007 to August 2008 – 10.5%. There is one rule, when the state recognises inflation, that inflation is growing in reality. Even if we consider this inflation to be really 10.5%, it is far greater than the inflation promised by these pro-European forces, especially in the pre-election campaign. In January, before the elections, Boris Tadic, Mladjan Dinkic and members of the current ruling coalition guaranteed that inflation would be single-digit. Next is the number of employees. The increase in the number of employees over the past 12 months is -0.1%. In a pre-election campaign for the 2007 presidential elections, I remember, those from the current ruling coalition promised up to a million jobs over the next four years. Before the 2008 elections, in December and January of this year, the figure was reduced to 500,000, so that ahead of the May elections, I remember very well, Boris Tadic, at one of the pre-election meetings, promised that in the next four years, the ZES coalition, if it comes to power, would employ about 200,000 people. This means that the bill is correct, that 20,000 people should be employed in Serbia for the first five months so far. So, from the end of the election, we see that the government here, which is the legislator of the law, admits that not 20 thousand are employed, but, in fact, in numbers, no man is employed. The number of people fired from work is higher than the number of employees. The following is exports of goods -- four billion and 383 million, and imports of goods are nine billion and 200 million. In the first seven months of this year alone, the foreign trade deficit is four billion and 817 million. There's a real chance that by the end of the year that foreign trade deficit will reach a figure, if it goes at this rate, of about eight-nine billion. Just seven or eight years ago, Serbia's total foreign trade debt amounted to 12 billion. We've come into a situation, we're close to this situation, when the external trade deficit in Serbia, run by this pro-European bloc, i.e. an annual deficit, being equal to the practical debt Serbia had the moment they took over in the country. Economic prospects for 2008. The main objectives of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are dynamic economic growth, employment growth and population standards and more uniform regional development. When you say, at this point, in Serbia there is economic growth, it can somehow be accepted, to swallow, however, when you say – dynamic economic growth, it really sounds like an unsalted joke. Employment growth and population standards. As far as employment is concerned, you've heard yourself grow the number of people fired from work is higher than the number of new employees. As for the population standard, I think there is no one in Serbia who will say that we live better in Serbia at this point than we did in May. We live a lot worse. A more balanced regional development. The fact is that for 10, 20 years we have attended a process, which I would call "the Belgradeisation of Serbia". So there is none of this increase, evenly regional development, is still, mainly, forcing Belgrade's development. As for the reasons for the adoption of amendments and amendments to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, when they look at each other, the first thing that falls into the eyes is that there is no economic reason, absolutely none. It's all about political reasons. Budget expenditures are not increased because of the need for economy, which would be normal because of the need for economic development, nor because of the survival of the population, let's say, of those 400,000 Serbian citizens living below the poverty line, but rather because of the survival of political parties and the ruling coalition. Why do I say political parties? Because it is obvious that, after all these lies and pre-election promises, there are political parties in the ruling coalition that, after the next elections, would not be parliamentary and, practically, would not exist. The first reason for budget rebalancing is the 'needed additional funding for pensions based on the above-mentioned increase and regular coordination' and totals 12 billion and 658 million dinars. No one argues that Serbian citizens who have retired have little pensions, that these pensions should be increased and coordinated. However, this should be done in accordance with the law. It's supposed to be one legal matter. In no case should pensions depend on coalition partners, on the agreement. Another reason for budget rebalancing – "After the entry into force of the Ministry Act, it is necessary to provide conditions for the smooth implementation of expenditures on direct beneficiaries of budgetary resources where there has been changes in competences and in newly educated ministries". So, another political reason. What's this about? It is that there has been a dramatic increase in the number of ministries and an even greater increase in staff in these ministries. We had 12 000 employees in the ministries at the time, and according to some information I heard in this assembly, the number now amounts to 24,000 employees in the governments of the Republic of Serbia. It's too much even on condition that all those pre-election promises are fulfilled. The third reason is the implementation of the NIP by individual projects in January -- August 2008. It is indicated that the dynamics of the implementation of individual projects do not take place in accordance with the set schedule of the funds provided for by the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. You know that the NIP has been invented because of election campaigns, because the two ruling parties, DS and G17 plus, would have the exclusive right to have themselves, according to some party criteria, huge budget funds, to direct these funds to municipalities, where members and representatives of their parties are in power, and to buy, practically, voters' votes. What happened now? This budget was made, and these items related to the NIP last year. Meanwhile, we had elections for the president of the Republic, then parliamentary elections, and these priorities changed. Meanwhile, new pre-election promises appeared in January, so new pre-election promises and commitments made to voters in May, and now there must be some transposition, redistribution of those funds, as it is impossible to fulfill all these pre-election promises. The fifth reason for budget rebalancing is necessary to secure... I forgot another detail regarding the provision of subsidies in agriculture. This is related to this because this is the most obvious example of voter purchase by DS, G17 plus and this so-called. Pro-European bloc. What's this about? It is that they promised in the pre-election campaign that each registered agricultural holding would receive 100 euros per hectare of farmland and then, suddenly, the number of agricultural holdings in Serbia increased drastically. Within a month, the number of agricultural holdings increased by 70,000, according to this report. In reality, there's a opposite process going on. So, the number of agricultural holdings, due to the state of the country, is shrinking. However, we broke the world record, we had a situation to increase the number of agricultural holdings by 70,000 in April and in early May. These are approximately DS and G17 voters, so if we add the several hundred thousand unfortunates who believed that story of free action, about 1000 euros that each citizen of Serbia will receive, at least 1000 euros, and now it's up to 50 euros, then you get a figure of several hundred thousand votes and an explanation of the election victory reached by the bloc for European Serbia. The fifth reason – budget rebalancing is necessary to provide additional funding, amounting to two billion and 300 million dinars, for national traffickers. Another political, not an economic reason. Why political? Well, these projects of national importance -- bypasses around Belgrade, Corridor 10, and needs exist for years, have not appeared suddenly, by entering the SPS into power, but, apparently, the SPS estimates that it will thus strengthen its electoral body, thus fulfilling some pre-election promises made to citizens and it insists on achieving that reason. The sixth reason – attracting direct investment in the automotive industry. This is specifically about the allocation of billions and 980 million dinars to invest with Fiat in the flag in Kragujevac. This is also the result of pre-election promises. I remember that the pre-election campaign mentioned an investment of 700m euros, which Fiat will invest in car production in the flag, now turns out that Fiat will invest 350m euros, while the other 350m euros will be invested by the state of Serbia, through the budget, budget rebalancing, etc. And the town of Kragujevac. The seventh reason I'm going to comment now is to execute court rulings, forced charges. This is not to be believed, it is said: "In the past part of the year, a significant increase in the number of court rulings being imposed, by reducing the corresponding budget funds of budgetary users etc., and in the end it has been said that, in the first six months of this year, 42,346 warrants for forced collection, totalling around 30m euros. What's this about? It's about what the state authorities are doing, and that, judging by these figures, mass, against the state. When you calculate these figures and compare them to the number of days, you get amazing data. Monthly, the state authorities commit 7.057 violations, which are followed by the state paying citizens compensation. It is 236 violations a day, 30 violations against the damage of the state by state authorities, 30 violations per hour; every two minutes of this assembly debate, one civil servant in Serbia makes some illegal action, which is why after the state of Serbia should pay fines from the budget, and in fact, it is paid by Serbian citizens. Since it's about time, I'll get back to you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5993	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Zoran Antić, and the messenger of the people Janko Vesenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5994	I'll give you a chance for citizens to have a little better insight into your protest, so since my colleague Stefan Zankov is currently in the election campaign in Književec, here, let me explain this amendment instead, and it concerns guarantees, it refers to public debt. I would like, above all, to say that the SNS is unhappy with the relationship the Serbian government has towards public debt and with which the demeaning refers to private debt. Private debt is not negligible at all. The total public debt is about $28 billion. It is true that, of that, the government debt – about 8-9 billion, but close to 20 billion is a private debt. Private debt also affects the balance of payments through ongoing transactions. It can also have a significant impact on macroeconomic stability, through foreign reserves, on the monetary rate and stability, because, above all, through the purchase of foreign exchanges, private citizens are both foreign exchanges and affecting the offer on the domestic market. I think we have a situation that's very bad, which is that most of that private debt is invested in domestic market production, so, therefore, we have that additional danger, the risk of unemployment. So the bad economic situation, as it is today in Serbia, and the appreciation of the dinars we have can further affect macroeconomic instability in Serbia. Therefore, the SNS, the Progressive MP group, Serbia-Tomislav Nikolic, believes the government should stop needless borrowing. Some basic questions are raised when it comes to borrowing, which is whether the profit rate, means whether the benefit from these loans, from these guarantees that you think you're giving out of these additional borrowings, is greater than the interest rates provided for in this contract, and they've been emerging from us for a long time, because the risk of borrowing, unfortunately, is lower in Serbia today than the risk of investment. This is one of the main reasons why foreign direct investment is so low in Serbia, which is making the economic crisis deepen in Serbia. What is also important when it comes to debt is whether this debt is sustainable. My colleagues have already said a lot about the balance of payments deficits. The balance of payments deficit is quite large, it is increasing from year to year, already exceeding about 20% of gross domestic product, as well as Prime Minister Cvetkovic himself, said that in the following year, he does not expect economic growth over 4%. So we're going to have a smaller gross domestic product, and therefore the possibility of funding debts is shrinking. I think, with this in mind, it's high time to come before the citizens, of course, before us MPs, to talk about what we owe, in which respect we'll have to pay back those debts, because what the government does, that the share of debt in the gross domestic product is small, that it's below about 60%, stands, but the fact that our exports are small in terms of our duties and that the perspectives of our exports and how small they are. Therefore, any debt that does not have a serious economic calculation is problematic for the state, it is problematic for Serbia's economy and will not be supported by the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5995	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5996	The President-in-Office, respected presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, when creating budget rebalances, the government of the Republic of Serbia has shown special responsibility for socially vulnerable, i.e. socially sensitive groups. In particular, I will look back at this Article 3, the position under regular number 4, on page six, where 10m euros were allocated through the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, or 830m dinars for the housing of refugees and exiled persons, for the construction of 400 apartments for refugees and exiled persons, i.e. for former refugees, since many of them have already received Serbian citizenship and want to integrate into this society, as well as 100 apartments for other socially endangered groups. This position of rebalancing allows for a permanent resolution of refugee problems for these families. Of course, Serbia has so far singled out significant means for refugees and exiled persons, for collective centres, for health care, etc. However, this is about permanent solutions, because the roof over your head is what all socially endangered categories want, especially this particularly endangered category – avoided and exiled faces. The new social housing law, which has entered the congregation procedure, will give an additional momentum in the care of this population. This positive approach by the government towards refugees certainly has, that is, to challenge a positive relationship both between us in the ruling coalition and the opposition, because who could vote against the budget rebalancing provisions that give a roof over the head of the socially endangered person category. The second positive effect of this rebalancing position is the fact that, for the first time, urban refugees are given a chance, so refugees living in cities, many of whom are intellectuals and college educated people, who have not had to leave their homes by their own free will. For the first time, they are given the opportunity to resolve their housing issue. In addition to buying out country houses for people living in the country who want to deal with agriculture, this is the completion of measures in this area. Of course, these measures should monitor and measure self-employment, employment, help to educate the children of these faces and other measures, so to speak, positive discrimination. In this way, the Serbian government and the state of Serbia set an example for BiH, and especially for Croatia, if necessary, I would like to stress this, full implementation of the January 2005 Sarajevo Declaration. To remind me, this declaration is signed by the governments of three countries, BiH, Croatia and the Republic of Serbia, and it, in one part, which you will allow, quote, 'confirms the right of refugees to decide between the right to a safe and dignified return and the right to local integration', so that in a country of refugee, countries are bound to take the necessary state and administrative measures to enable refugees to make their individual decisions, and to resolve the refugee issue fairly. The extremely successful foreign policy of the Serbian government and the Serbian president creates enough guarantees that, through international institutions and bilateral contacts, all provisions of the Sarajevo Declaration will be applied, above all, to those relating to the dignified return of refugees to the Republic of Croatia and to the access of deprived rights. On the other hand, for those who have opted for integration, this rebalance is a real hope for solving existential problems, so to get a roof over your head. Of course, our coalition will support this socially responsible rebalancing and these positions relating to the welfare of the socially endangered categories of these persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5997	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5998	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another in a series of amendments that the government has not accepted on the draft amending and supplementing the Budget Law. I find an interesting part of the explanation why the government has not accepted this amendment. It says – the loans for which the Republic of Serbia will issue a guarantee will implement projects aimed at strengthening the financial system and maintaining macroeconomic stability, i.e. the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. The fact is that the government is in a global financial crisis and the minister said in her opening statement that this is currently the biggest danger for the Republic of Serbia. The financial crisis has already taken place on Serbia's coast. You saw what was happening in Hungary, how the IMF had to intervene to save the government of Hungary and the financial system in that country. So we're no longer talking about the crisis in Canada and the United States, or I don't know where, but it's already reached the coast of Serbia. I want to ask the question, what does the Government of the Republic of Serbia do to prevent the consequences of this financial crisis from being as little as possible? The minister said the government was the last line of defense. We want to know who's in that goalie's defense, who's in half the line, so there's no end, when problems arise, that we have a situation to shoot a penal without a goalie. You know very well that in our country they work on the so-called. A charter of the Belgrade Stock Exchange of four banks. We have a situation a few days ago that one of the four banks has received a solution that is being removed from the Belgrade Stock Exchange. I'll remind you that just 'Metals Bank', 22 August 2008, was issued a solution by the Listing and Quotation Commission, which puts it on the A Listing, makes the market for this list, so that two months after that, the publisher would, on 28 October, be removed, on the basis of a solution to suspend trade in the shares of the publisher from 'Metals Bank' AD Novi Sad, for the reason that the publisher did not fulfil its obligations to report and notify the Stock Exchange in accordance with the law, sublaws, the acts of the Stock Exchange and the contract concluded with the Stock Exchange. I am interested, given that several banks in Serbia are certainly a depositor at the Metals Bank, are we going to have such a situation these days, without the intention of spreading the panic, as they declared several days ago when we submitted a draft deposit insurance law? So, without spreading panic, are we going to read in the paper tomorrow that some of the banks that exist in the Republic of Serbia have failed? Can we get that information, because it's very important for citizens and, of course, for Serbia's economy? Today I had the opportunity to read, too, a statement by the Minister, who said the situation is under control, reminding that the government and the National Bank have a plan to reduce the negative spilling of the global financial crisis into Serbia. According to her, a set of laws has been prepared, or measures, to be applied if necessary. I think that MPs, the National Assembly, should get information from you tonight, what does it mean – if necessary, and what measures will it be, which is a set of laws that the National Assembly should adopt in order for the financial crisis to feel as little in Serbia as possible?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u5999	Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) The amendments to the same text were submitted to Article 3, by the MPs of the People's Republic of Verica Radeta and Zoran Babic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6000	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a colleague of the Verica Radeta has submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group. Imagine miracles, what these English would say, coincidences, that its amendment is identical with someone who falsely presents himself as an MP, with a certain citizen from Vrnjaka Banja, named Zoran Babic. Let me tell you that Radeta's colleague is in Vranjska Banja. Soon he should go to the village of Lipovar, because he is in the Serbian Radicals campaign ahead of the repeat local elections on November 9th, and that citizen Babic, also lives in Vrnjačka Banja, but he is engaged in fraud, which is a greenery, which is a variety of suspicious contracts, of course, all under the patronage of his gurus Tomislav Nikolic and the local tycoon Predrag Mikic, called "The Trgomen", which he will, which is why, if you didn't know, by the letter of the law, elections in Vrnjak Banja. So, this friend of Nikolic's and the best man, after this later and married him, not this Nikolic, because Nikolic was long in those stories, and in some others, looking at me by Mrs Kolundzija, but it is really information from the scene, because I spent two days in Banja and I know it months ago, because of the fact that the wish of Nikolic and his companion, the local tycoon Mikic, is to make him the boss of Vranja Banja. Why the elections were held there, I'll sort of link it up, but indeed it will be, you'll see, Madam Minister, too much with arguments about this debt crisis that Serbia is in. Citizens live on a really high level of duty – 450 euros, the information I received, or announced by the president of the Association of Banks, Veroljub Dugalic, three months ago. So, the average duty of every Serbian citizen is 900 euros per capita, which means that today, and God forbid there are more, every child in Serbia who is born with 1,000 euros, so let him think that and what fate he will be in this country. While citizens are so overindebted, while barely living, in Vrnjačka Banja people have no business, there are the most recent privatisations performed, such as the "Auto Transport" Vranja spa, you remember everyone, and so does counterpart Novakovic, currently not, since he was the president of the Privatisation Committee, and for years we've been dealing with this problem, during that time, some are going well. What our people would say – there is, there is. Otherwise, you know this well all of you MPs, you know every point on the map of Serbia, Mt. Vidic, that's the base of Vidic, Bajcetina, so much mentioned about this 600,000-euro Nikolic villa, it's so close to Vrnjačka Banja that this one just goes down, and it does it regularly backwards for several years, down the road from his villa made with tycoon money, so it goes across the village of Čukojevac and Stubal and cut the road to Vrnjačka Banja, and it is nice to him, or to Ratina, where the companion is waiting for him; shine, elegance, driving parks, not only for Mikic and his wife, but also for Nikolic and other family members. Now the citizens of Vranjska Banja know that. They're wondering, and why do we have a few months after the parliamentary and local elections are held, so the election is over our heads?- I'm sorry. Because on the 14th of July, a session was held, in that last term, on that day of "D", when there was a stalemate, neither there nor here, which would have been said. Here's why. Namely, when all of this is looked at and made one reasonable reconstruction, because on this republican level, Manter, Wardsworth, Tadic, MI6 agents and so on, who worked systematically with Nikolic and Vukic on this project, he was in charge of Mikic at the local level. He said, come on now, nice, Serbian radicals, who were then, and in fact they never were, because they are despised there by these Army radicals, citizens, because they can't pray for the head on the street, come on now, nicely, tell the party's leadership, which is this Nikolic, who, like, knew nothing about doing, that our potential coalition partners, i.e. The DSS and the SPS are demanding 300% increase in municipal taxes. It's unacceptable and it's impossible. It can't survive, it can't live. How will poor Mikic live and earn another few million euros if taxes increase by 300%? But it was all a lie, people from the DSS and the SPS know, not for ordinary citizens, not for those that a colleague had just talked about, for citizens without a roof over their heads, for refugees who wanted to make their own place of residence, but for such tycoons as Mikic "The Tragomen", Nikolic and other brothers, who have been rolling around Vranjska Banja these days. How come people don't think of that fact, the state so over-indebted, 30 billion total debt is our responsibility. The foreign trade deficit, here, was just reminded by my colleague Milenkovic, although he is a professor of music, but he is following the area of economy, like any responsible MP, $13 billion by the end of the year, a two-digit figure for the inflation rate, so many citizens in charge, there is no job. In Vrnjačka Banja, watch out, I'm talking about it tendingly because I come from the scene and I'm treating one problem, because that's where the elections will be held in seven days, the same people are in charge of 500 euros, or 900 per capita. Someone will say that Banje's income is 400 euros because it is a developed and tourist municipality, and in fact, there people are extremely difficult to live in. If there were no of these choices now, which were induced by the tentuous Nikolic and this tycoon Mikic, if it had really been applied, but only for such tycoons and for those who wanted to build and make, this one, by the way, started many projects at various locations, if it were for them, and for the citizens – how much they could contribute to filling the municipal register, would be for everyone and the municipality, along with this total tax on property, with a tourist tax, have a good budget, which would be well charged. It could also be a solid agrarian budget, because Vrnjaka Banja is not only the promenades and those places that are in hotel complexes, these are villages like New Sela, where tomorrow night, at 19 o'clock, we have a stands, and Lipova, where Verica is going today, but it didn't suit them. Now people are wondering, where did the state of Serbia come from? In six months, they have reelections, to plead and to choose between what? Between DS and this outlaw group of Nikolic, Mikic and Babic, these local con artists, and, on the other hand, people who didn't want it and said -- we want this Serbian tourism queen, not only Banjski, but indeed the pearl in our tourist offer, to be acceptable, absolutely, for everyone, to come here normal people, to invest, to work, to build, not to make individuals huge wealth. How are we going to get to these international standards of sustainability of macroeconomic policy in one country, which average 5% of the participation in the balance of goods and services deficit, when it is bigger and when it is an alarm for you and for all economists in this country who are dealing with this problem? How are we going to convince the citizens of Serbia, without making a big panic, and the pensioners, who have been deceived, that they will be better, when Boris Tadic is yesterday, I believe that you did not advise him to say it, because you would not say such nonsense, said – that in the campaign (in which everyone cheated, like these Bani tycoons, candidates and all the officials in the list for European Serbia), you could not predict such a flow on the world's financial stock market, so that is why pensioners today have to suffer, and we get packages from the World Bank, which says – Serbia is a highly in charge of the country?- I'm sorry. The difference is 272, or 275%, i.e. the external trade deficit between what we export or import. And what we produce for export, and we could do in that area that I'm talking about, and at the end of Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic. I'm monitoring how unserious people react to everything he's saying. He's a man, isn't he, Srbo, or are you a doctor of technological science in a few days, and is he also a respected host of the village of Jelenca near Capca? He gets up every day at four o'clock and takes care of his household and his cattle fund, and the state hasn't helped him, as he hasn't helped millions of peasants in this country, and then ends it all, so he's doing scientific work, so he comes to the National Assembly to open his heart, like an honest man, talking to everyone, of course, he can, in his face, say he's a thief. That's how serious and responsible people work, and our country's been put into a situation where the water is irresponsible, because if you'd done otherwise and if we hadn't gone into such progressive borrowings, we wouldn't have to be in a really humiliating situation today, looking for, and in a miserable way, a write-off of some of our debts. And this is all nice, Mrs Dragutinović, which in this section, for which Mrs Radeta asks to be deleted, Section B, Section 3, there is. But in reality, I know that in these three months you're not able to track the realization of many projects, but if we started with that story, it would take us a long way. The item per item, about the regional development of Bora, I talked about it a month ago, really, a lot, about energy efficiency in Serbia. Explain to me, please, why we ratified, or you, a few days ago, 300m euros at this German bank, for the reconstruction of our thermoelectric power plants, when citizens, in the electricity bill that comes to them, depending on what kind of power they're already paying from 156 to 192 dinars for the reconstruction of the power plant in our country? What, we have to rob them twice? Why do we not have a report, Mr Krasic spoke about it, as well as many MPs, i.e. the final budget account from 2001 to today? The easiest thing to say was that we don't have a state audit institution. This Ginićka, who did the job, which Dinkic authorised, sent letters to every unit of local self-government and said – you don't have to hire an external auditor, as well as to Kragujevac, of course, what the external auditor will do when it's best to hunt in a blurry one, but that's why radicals, where they were in power, are also looking for authorized auditors. I must point out the example of my colleagues, Saša Valjarevic, the mayor of Pojarec, the Serbian Radical, who in the last term was the MP and director of the most successful municipal enterprise and received the award for it in 2006 and 2007. He hired an auditory house, please come and see what's done, how it's done. We could talk a lot about this. My friend, I have to tell you that so-called. The Sarajevo Agreement was not implemented the way you say it in the forest villages. I'll tell you about the Uprising Nuts. There have been attempts by several exiles from Republika Srpska to, as you say, receive favourable loans with the intervention of the state and to settle in some rural household and home. Only one family made it, and I had to call, as vice president, because it was a family with two small children and because it had already stood out every time a man had to give a capara for something like that. It's a lot of fraud. What is happening institutionally and as citizens have been deceived for so many years, we are not surprised, given who brought you to power, under whose patronage you are, who manages macroeconomic policy, but I must warn citizens that other frauds are also walking Serbia. Here, I saw one, or I heard it, although we passed yesterday, the day before yesterday, walking around Serbia's cities. Look out, it's a dangerous man. He's the deputy president of some kind of party, his name is Alexander Vukic, and he's a man who deals with various types of fraud. He can ask you for money and he can say that – that's what I need for it, he can arrange a deal with you, whether it's the media, whether it's a combination for a job, and then the invoices will come to the expense of the SRS, of 400,000 euros, and so on. In that case, since it is also moving towards Vrnjačka Banja, Ruma, it would have to react to the police, and given how falsely it is presented and how sadly it is said, in order to deceive the citizens of Serbia, I could, if it is somewhere, check it out in Banja, no, and perhaps in Ruma, there is an intervention of the local amateur theatre. Thank you very much, and as for this much responsibility for the citizens and everything that awaits us in our uncertain future, other fellow Serbian radicals will also speak about the amendments that follow.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6001	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Does anyone else want a word about this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6002	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. The government rejected it because it said that the justification given in addition to this amendment, that further borrowing is necessary, since the conditions under which budget users are in debt are not known, is not acceptable because arrangements with certain institutions with which these credit lines are to be concluded are not known until the end. On the one hand, this argument could be accepted, because it could in principle be true, and on the other hand, we cannot make a few objections to the work of the Government and, in general, in the way this rebalancing has been filed, which ultimately jumps into the belly of what is by the Government, when it comes to an explanation that is not why this amendment is not accepted, given. First, when you look at these divisions, and on which basis you have to conclude the loan projects in the amount, as it says here, of 67 billion 367 million and 872 thousand dinars, then you can see that, mostly, these budget items are definitively flat-rate. There is no detail about all of this, nor can there be spoken of here, nor has there ever been a word for this congregation speaker, when it comes to certain items, which is why they are the very ones. Why does it matter? That's what's important because whenever you're pulling some loans, you're either pulling some credit lines, or you're making credit projects, like these, you have to keep an eye on what kind of circumstances you're doing. So we don't have a picture of the budget here, but the budget rebalance, which is now being made in November, by the end of this year, and we're going to face the 2009 budget. My question is very simple, is this amount of 67 billion 367 million and 872 thousand dinars, did the government come to that amount yesterday, the day before or seven or eight days ago? Or did she get to that amount early? This is very important, because we see that the government has reacted to elements of the global financial crisis, which has obviously not affected our country in the past few days. Are these amounts that are given in rebalancing in correspondence, whether they correspond to those challenges that we are talking about here, or are we going to go this way into predetermined amounts, into loans for loans that are now, or are they going to be in the next period, more expensive than ever? I'm not saying, I'm not going to argue, everyone has the right to explain their amendment and to talk about it the way he wants to, but this amendment has pulled me to talk about it for these reasons. Is it possible that this amount that we are given is, realistically, the amount that the state of Serbia can withstand during the period for which this budget rebalance is planned? I don't believe that. I don't believe you for a reason, you were just saying, here's Shami, the other day, about how banks can be protected by increasing interest rates, right? That, on the one hand, will be fine, and on the other hand we will be faced with what we already are, with the fall in real estate prices on the domestic market, and then there will be a circus seriosus from which we won't be able to escape. On the other hand, I have here today a report on actions with the biggest daily changes for businesses in Serbia. It is the date of 30.10.2008, where we see at least seven banks that record a drastic decline in this situation. Therefore, in these circumstances, how can we trust you to believe that the amounts you have stated here are correct and how can we trust you to believe that this borrowing, which you have foreseen here, is the borrowing that is safe for the Serbian budget and safe for the citizens of Serbia, is safe even for these projects that you have listed here? Unlike a colleague who just spoke, I'm not going to question the justification of these projects at all, but I'm going to be extremely willing to go from being that they, all the squads, as mentioned here, are necessary. In that sense, I think it was much smarter for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to come out alone in this inter-periode, and it did not come out, with an amendment to these amounts, to say that they are referring to the current situation, according to the increase in interest rates, at the total price of the loan to be expected, because here these loans are not being drawn from domestic banks, which, unfortunately, have started to experience what is written on this paper, but these loans are being drawn from abroad, all according to the items mentioned here. So, to be clear, we're not against credit right now, because credits to this country can help develop, as foreseen here, but we're against the fact that it's ultimately being approached and that we're no longer certain at any moment whether this government thinks it's serious at any moment. You had a promise that pensions would rise to a level of 70% by the end of this year, i.e. until 1 January 2009. We see that this is delayed for 2010, or never, since Boris Tadic said yesterday it was something that was completely unrealistic. Why did you do that? It's a very simple thing. He had to come up with some reason why no political constitution would be made in Serbia, in order to make up for someone else's interest, first of all, because of the secession of a piece of territory, another political constitution, one invention of a promise, because in Serbia, "a promise of insane joy" is for all living things, as they say. When faced with the inability to do so, which we knew from the beginning, but only the unfortunate people who believe in it were not able to know, one good part of the people in Serbia, then we are faced with the fact that this promise cannot be fulfilled. The same thing is when it comes to free action in public enterprises and everything else this government has promised. In contrast, a very logical question arises. I don't know if I should or shouldn't accept the amendment of the Witch Radete. Perhaps erasing this part under B is a drastic measure when it comes to reacting to the draft of this budget rebalancing, but what is proposed here does not give rise to a minimum of trust. It's just one of those reasons why the DSS doesn't want to vote for this budget rebalancing, and it has nothing to do with it, and you'll have to do with it, and you'll be proud of your little misdemeanors that you make when it comes to unorganised management of state and economic policy, first of all, when the day comes to collect it, and you will charge the citizens of Serbia by giving confidence to those who are able to run the responsible economic policy of the state, responsible state policy, and you will, of course, pay your own money in the way it suits you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6003	National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6004	Mrs. Comic, I could probably name a few members, but I don't think there's any need. It's enough to just say art. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. What's this about? Of course, it's good that the National Assembly is working, it's good to consider the points that are on the agenda. The important point is also the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget, regardless of opposition, regardless of objections etc. However, I get the impression that we may be abused, present in the National Assembly. Outside this assembly, across the street, in the presidency building, there are some things that are really very difficult and painful for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is best discussed today's agency news "Bete", which says: "European Union Officials, Eulex, under the auspices of the UN, throughout Kosovo". Of course, this text mentions Boris Tadic, Javier Solana, Kristina Galjak, etc. We have long been saying that there is no longer here on the agenda, no resolution, no declaration, no decision regarding the National Assembly, and that Bogdanovic, the foreign minister, no longer knows whose minister, whether in the Government of the Republic of Serbia or where he was the first minister, tells us that they are in a difficult fight with the EU over Eulex, that they do not accept the Eulex, and here we have confirmation that they have already reached an agreement. I don't know how a government official can continue to represent budget rebalancing, given these new facts and new circumstances. Someone here probably makes the National Assembly talk about important things, and even more important things end up in absolute silence, in the dark, in the system: real politics; about – the comet, what to do, the crater is so much, we can only figure out what a crater is. I think the National Assembly of the Sea and preventably to act on "The Flower", that these things are not good for the Republic of Serbia, and now we are absolutely clear why this controlled chaos is going on. By the Americans, the English, this group was created that should interfere with the SRS, like, we can't alarm. Well, we're alarming everything, we're stamping everything. Now we understand why you're avoiding this discussion. I'm looking for information on whether this agency news is correct. Of course, you can't answer me, but you can ask Nikita Rakic, head of the cabinet of the president of the Republic, or BIA directors, and you can ask Vukic and Nikolic...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6005	Three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6006	Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6007	For the accuracy of the agency news headline that the Eulex mission will be in Kosovo and Metohija only under the auspices of the UN, we can only address the Beta agency. National MP Milan Avramovic argues that this is my personal opinion. National MP Zoran Krasic came out calling on members 225 and 226, and you can read that he quoted the title "UN-sponsored mission" as saying. I have only spoken to the United Nations in full meaning, so please do not abuse the Rules of Procedure, em, that we do not throw ourselves out of place, so as not to come out of a silent agreement on the use and abuse of the Rules of Procedure in disrupting speakers, disrupting the chairmanship of the National Assembly and violating the reputation of the National Assembly during the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6008	Mrs. Comic, I've been extremely precise. I didn't ask the Beta Agency to answer to me, neither Tanjug, nor part of the government in charge of public relations. I asked you, after that introduction, and I cited the reasons why I doubt it was some kind of fraud, a prank, otherwise, the worst thing that could happen to us, that the notice and the explanation that these two members of the Rules of Procedure are prescribing, giving, first of all, Boris Tadic, his chief of staff, the director of BIA or someone else, I can't know everything right now. In any case, I've spoken to the state's authority as these two members order. Beta is not a state body, although there are problems with funding some agencies, etc. Don't point me to private Betas, erefs, agencies, etc. I want my country from the authorities in the Republic of Serbia to let me know. It's not just my need or my desire. A large number of MPs on this right are asking for an explanation and an explanation of why these things are being done beyond all existing decisions of the National Assembly, and I have given you good notice to see that there is some kind of prank. We don't want it on the agenda, it's the government, this left-hand side, blocked. They blocked the debate at the National Assembly. They don't mind getting in touch with Javier Solan at all. Gentlemen, that's the one who pressed the button, signed and people died in Serbia. He killed those people. According to the commission that examined the NATO campaign, a special commission formed in the UN Prosecutor's Office of the UN tribunal, collateral damage -- it is a crime against peace. There are no crimes against peace in The Hague tribunal's statutes, there are war crimes, violations of laws, customs of war, crimes against humanity. So some kind of guilt has been proven. You've been withdrawing charges, you've been withdrawing criminal charges, so Solana and everyone else can stay here normally, so they won't be unwanted. They continue their bloody beer towards Serbia. Everyone sees it, only the President of the Republic goes with some alternatives – if he is under cover, if he is not under cover, if we agree, if we do not agree. Give the motion for a resolution, give the motion for a decision that we have proposed here to oblige him and all other state officials not only to embarrass us, but not to destroy our vital interests. Please, don't interpret what I said, I said very precisely who needs to make an explanation and notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6009	People's MP, you asked and you got the word twice. The first time you saw a stenogram, you said you were looking for a notice about whether it was true what you quoted as the Beta news agency. All I can tell you is that we can ask the Beta Agency about the accuracy of the news. In the second report of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure and the use of the Article. 225th and 226th... National MP Milan Avramovic throws out the bench and interferes with the chair of the session. I give you my first warning. So, in the second report, you asked for a notice on the course of very serious negotiations that are being conducted in the government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, of course, under the authority of the President of the Republic. Since there have already been such requests for notification, I would ask the service to direct a stenogram of this second announcement by MP Zoran Krasic to the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, because this is the address at which you must receive the relevant information you need to work. The word, according to the Rules of Procedure, is based on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, it has Elena Christmas-Talijan and is obtained on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6010	Articles 225 and 226. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question concerns the same information – has the state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija changed? The issue was also addressed to Boris Tadic and to the government's competent minister. Also, does the President of the Republic violate his powers and act counter-constitutionally because he deals with foreign policy and what is not in his jurisdiction? I would remind you that what Beta is carrying, the informal part of the information I will not be dealing with, but Kristina Galjak, the press representative of Javier Solana, has repeated what has already been repeated so many times, and what government officials have said. So, talks are being held between Solana and Ban Ki Moon and Serbian President Tadic on a six-point proposal issued by Ban Ki Moon in July to Serbian President Tadic. So, I will remind you of what Tadic resented UN Secretary-General for the session of the General Assembly 21. Six. In 2008. That's when he said the UN can't or can't leave Kosovo. He also said that until the process of determining Kosovo's future status, which is foreseen by Resolution 1244, the international community, led by the UN, must retain its central role in preserving peace and stability in Kosovo and Metohija, and that the UN mission is not completed. In other words, she has not fulfilled her mandate. Under such circumstances, the UN can neither leave Kosovo nor leave Kosovo. Serbia's president has been plowing along with another Ban's thesis -- that the Kosovo constitution is so designed to seek UNMIK, as a temporary civilian administration, to take away effective powers. Everything he's doing right now is contrary to what he said. It is obvious that, through the agreement on these six points, it is gradually moving towards an agreement which they will call necessary co-operation and agreement on so-called. practical things leading to recognition of Kosovo's independence. So, here, many opposition MPs have asked for an urgent debate on this issue. You don't let that happen. Once again, the SRS reiterates its request for an emergency session to discuss these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6011	I ask the service to refer a stenogram to the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija. National MP Milan Avramovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6012	Mrs. Comic, I know that the least joy is with the MPs of the SRS when you sit down to chair that table. What is very important, in order for someone to disturb you as you speak, you must go out for this pay phone to speak, so that you may say, someone has disturbed the speaker. In case you're chairing, you know we're all calling for an article. 225 and 226. In this case, Article 226, I must quote, for the sake of the public, and not for your sake, I know that you know the Rules of Procedure well – The National MP has the right to request notice and explanation from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on matters covered by the rights and duties of all officials and the powers of the authorities on which they are headed, and which he needs to exercise the function of the MP. I just threw it out of place that you gave an answer to what your personal opinion is, not according to the Rules of Procedure. When a question is asked, a response shall be sought from the competent authorities or from the competent ministry. You have denied yourself by the second date of Mr Krasic, when you said – I ask that the stenogram be seen and that the reply be delivered to the MP. Then I threw it again and said – do you see that I was right and that it was your personal opinion, and that Mr Krasic had to go out twice for this pay phone, specifically, for the second time to explain that he did not ask a question from the Beta Agency. If you think that because you're wrong, you're giving us warnings, we don't have any dilemma about it. Your right to the chairman can be misused, it is nothing controversial, but it is important that the citizens of Serbia see it, especially when it comes to the subject of Kosovo and Metohija. You know, you couldn't say a warning when it was less important than when it was more important, especially when you deny yourself. So I ask you not to abuse the position you have, to be as few in that place as possible and not to make any warnings about your mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6013	People's MP, by looking at the stenogram of your presentation, you can see that you have said it twice – I have thrown it out of place. It's the basis for a warning, regardless of the previous reasons. All of us who read the Rules of Procedure about the obligation to act at the National Assembly session know that. Given the stenogram of the presentation of MP Zoran Krasic, in the first and second submissions, you will see that his presentation is different by content, I replied... National MP Milan Avramovic throws out of town for the third time, I give you a second warning. National MP Zoran Krasic, in his second announcement in the amended content, obliged the chairman to refer the stenogram of his presentation to the competent authority, i.e. The KIM Ministry. I have not injured any members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at this part of the session. National MP Milan Lapcevic reported on the debate in particular. Here you go. The DSS parliamentary group is available for seven minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6014	The President-in-Office, an amendment now on the agenda, which MP Zoran Babic proposes to delete in Article 3rd part of B, i.e. to review the country's further borrowing, is something I was talking about the other day, believing that the large deficit occurring in the budget, i.e. in the proposed budget rebalancing of the budget, which you have predicted, i.e. the government and the finance ministry, to be filled in by borrowing abroad, is very similar to what I was thinking and saying, namely, that the state in Serbia's budget and the current developments in Serbia's economy is something that is difficult to justify further borrowing of the country. The mere fact that the country's current debt is about 20 billion euros, and in two years' time it will increase to 30 billion euros, says enough that we will have to spend a lot more on interest and on the principals to pay off these debts, and that we have a completely opposite situation in the country's economic movements, in the growth of social gross products, in what needs to create this new income, so that the state has a way to repay these debts and to maintain financial macroeconomic and any other stability in the country. A rebalancing deficit of this size in the budget certainly cannot be called sustainable, and the finance minister certainly knows very well. I believe that she personally disagrees with this way of over-public spending, and that public spending, unfortunately, is not being reduced by this draft budget rebalance, but is increasing further. Some of the facts that I have to make to get the right picture of what circumstances this budget rebalancing is in are next. In addition to the mentioned increase in public spending from 40 to 45 billion dinars, due to, of course, pre-election promises, there is also an increase in costs and expenditure for new employment in the state administration. I'll remind you that six or seven years ago, the state administration of Serbia numbered about 7,000 employees. Today, it exceeds 27-28 thousand and has been further increased by some 300 people in the three months since the government was formed. This can also be clearly seen by the structure of expenditure in the first part of the budget rebalancing, where expenditure is spoken of for employees and for the cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development, for European integration, etc., where almost two million euros are allocated for those purposes alone. There are too many allocations for travel costs, contract service, where both the Deputy Prime Minister and the various ministries, and the sums range from five and up to 20 million dinars, as foreseen by the first Deputy Prime Minister, i.e. the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration and even up to a billion and 600 fantastic millions at the Ministry of Defence. I really don't understand where the Ministry of Defence, the minister and his associates will travel for the entire 20m euros. The facts I still have to mention, which are related to this budget rebalance, are also that foreign investors withdraw. According to Governor Jelasic, it is evident that many foreign investors are withdrawing, or foreign investments, and as a result, we will have a billion and a half euros of foreign investment in Serbia this year, and I will remind you that two years ago investments in Serbia were four and a half billion. So three times smaller this year. The prime minister himself says that the real investment will be even lower next year and that economic growth can be expected to be much smaller than it is this year. Without economic growth, which is at least 7%, and without the stability of the course, or large foreign investment, it is impossible and unsustainable this kind of budget and this kind of public spending, let alone the additional increases that will obviously take place next year. The Belgrade Stock Exchange recorded the biggest decline in its history, and the fall remains unconstitutional. One of the coalition partners who was probably one of the most responsible for forming this government, Mr. Dragan Markovic-Palma, on one show last week, on the issue of journalists – how are they going with pre-election promises and why they are not being fulfilled, said that when they came, I don't know who he meant, they found an empty register and large debts, thinking probably of a newly formed coalition. In doing so, the man probably got the idea that there was a so-called. An empty register inherited from the current prime minister. So the current prime minister was the finance minister and he left the empty cash register to himself. It's not worth a second comment. The prime minister, also in light of the likely global economic crisis, announces that next year, in addition to the decline in social gross product growth, there will also be an additional drop in employment, namely that hundreds of thousands of people next year, or in the coming years, will run out of work, precisely because of the global economic crisis. When last week, or two weeks ago, as the DSS Parliamentary Group, we proposed a law that increases deposit insurance to 20,000 euros, we got a salve of criticism here on our proposal, because we allegedly bring citizens into panic and we encourage people to go after banks to raise their money. It's only been a week and the government has proposed an increase in deposit insurance to 50,000 euros. In doing so, of course, she did not provide in the proposed law, or budget, that this increase in secured deposits is covered by budget funds, although it is obvious that a minimum of 500m euros is missing in the budget to secure all the deposits proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6015	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6016	I'm done. So, banks raise interest on foreign deposits, the euro grows, inflation starts. That this may not be like some of the years behind us, which have produced a major economic crisis in Serbia? When banks raise interest on foreign exchange savings, the other day I saw a bank offering 11% interest on a hand-to-hand foreign exchange savings, it can only remind me of Jezda and Dafina. If that's the case, and this is the budget deficit, I'm afraid this country can't handle it, and this kind of budget rebalance won't be able to contribute to the country's stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6017	Anyone else want a word? The word is from the People's MP, Free Maras. He has the right to debate in particular. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6018	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I advertise the violation of Article 104 regarding Article 200. The answer came from Minister Skundric, who again denied that the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Energy, had never received a letter from the "Serbiagas" that he wanted to buy 25% of the "Progressgastriding". First of all, you all know that on every board of directors of public enterprises established by the government there is always a representative of the government, especially when NIS, or "Serbiagas" was at stake. At that time, either the minister or assistant minister were sitting at meetings of the Srbiagas Management Board. We ask the Ministry of Energy to provide us with evidence that they have not received a decision to buy 25% of the shares in Jugorosgas and we ask Srbiagas, or NIS, to give us proof that they have sent a decision. After that, if we don't get the information, we'll contact the Trustee for information. At the end of the line, and if they never got that decision, they had to look for it, they had to look for the board's decision. So it's not a postcard or a birthday card, so someone sent someone to the Ministry. They sent a decision by the Management Board that was then vital to the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, in this response, to the question of whether Serbia will still have a mediator, since we have concluded a historic agreement with the Russian Federation on gas and oil, the answer is that Mr. Sasa Ilic signed an annex contract and that, when the "Serbiagas" Steering Board is confirmed, it will apply for 2009. I want the government to respond – what will happen in 2010? Will there still be a mediator? Are we still going to have a higher price of gas than necessary? Please, especially you who are in the ruling coalition, do everything you can to examine these things. Do everything you can to make sure that the citizens of Serbia know the truth. There's been a lot of malfeasance, really. The state of Serbia suffers. We'll be the perseverance in that. We also want your help, it will be a hundred times easier to find out who it is and why it has made such bad decisions, decisions that are strongly reflected on the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6019	There is no breach of Article 200, as this member cannot be applied during this session, as it concerns parliamentary issues and is not in use today's working day, and on Article 104, we can plead in the voting day, if you wish. Do you want, MP Free Marash? (Free Marash, from the city: Yes. ) In the day of the vote, we would like to make a statement about the violation of Article 104, which was carried out by MP Slobodan Maras. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic. Does he want to participate in the discussion of details, or is it a violation of the Rules of Procedure? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking because the LDP Group has 15 minutes for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on the basis of an article. In 225 and 226, I ask the government the following question. Does Alex Company perform construction work at Belgrade Airport? Is he the owner of the company by any chance in family or godfather relations with the director of Belgrade Airport, Mr. Bojan Krist? I see this, perhaps, seems funny, Madam Minister, will turn out to be sad. Has the company "Alex Companies" done any work in time for the purposes of the Serbia lottery? What was the price of these papers? Was there a tender and did these papers pay for the subsidiary of the Serbian company? Was that firm still doing work at the "Yugoslavia" hotel for the purposes of "Grand Casinos" for big money? Do you know who owns the Grand Casino? Do you know it's Martin Schlaff? Probably everyone knows whose friend he is, when it comes to Serbia. So, I would ask for answers to these questions, since the Democratic Party of Serbia has asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia to replace the director of the Public Enterprise "Nikola Tesla", which the government, which in the newspaper, is pronouncing, or, maltena, not even pronounally, but somewhat contemptuous and angryly, says it has a salary of only 300 and a few thousand dinars, which is more than 10 average salaries for Serbian citizens. I hope you, Mrs Dragutinovic, agree with that. So, I'm not saying any of this, I'm just asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6021	I ask the service to send a stenogram, with a request to inform MP Vladan Batic of his instructions to the Ministry of Infrastructure. National MP, is the Ministry of Infrastructure one address, or do you want...? We can't direct the government, we can send the secretary general to the government, or the president's office, but we can't. So we understood, to be instructed and to be delivered to the People's Messenger of Information. The word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure was sought by the MP Dusan Maric, and by the MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6022	Ladies and gentlemen, based on Article 226. The draft law on the seats and areas of the courts of the Republic of Serbia envisions the abolition of the Municipal Court of Violations in the Great Plana. I'm asking the Department of Justice for an explanation, which is why this proposal was made, because I believe there are all rational and justified reasons for the Court of Justice to continue the work in the Great Plan. I'll give you just a few reasons. The first reason is the population. The Great Plan has 50,000 inhabitants and does not seem rational and justifiable to me that one municipality that has 50,000 inhabitants is left without a court for violations. The second reason is the geographical position. The Great Plan is a hub for more significant regional roads, located 60km from Belgrade. More than 50 km of Belgrade highway - Nis crosses the territory of the Great Plana. On that section of the road, literally, there are various traffic offences every day that require the intervention of the law enforcement authority. The third reason is the number of objects. In the first nine months, the Infringement Court in the Great Plan had in its work 5,827 cases, of which 2,829 cases have been received since 1 January of this year, and the rest are items that have been withdrawn from earlier years. The Court's revenue is also a significant item, on the basis of which the ministry should be defined when making a proposal to reorganise courts. Finally, on September 30th, the Grand Plan's Criminal Court made a revenue of 13 million and 367 thousand dinars for penalties imposed, which is more than enough for self-financing and, let me use that term, the Court's business. The fifth reason is space. The municipal misdemeanor court is located in the municipal court building. The municipal court has singled out a sufficient number of premises to the infringement authority. For the rental of these premises, the Criminal Court does not grant any compensation, so there are no additional financial expenditures to which the ministry would be burdened, possibly, because of the decision that the Infringement Court in the Great Plana continues to work. The last reason is technical equipment. The Great Plane Violation Court is technically equipped to continue its work. For this reason, I request an explanation and appeal to the Department of Justice to allow the Court of Justice to continue its work in the Great Plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6023	According to the deputy secretary of the assembly, the government today discussed laws to be delivered in the assembly procedure, probably during tomorrow. Do you, however, want the stenogram to be directed to the Ministry of Justice, since we will consider it soon on committees, because it is in Parliament's procedure? Yes, you do. I ask that a stenogram of the presentation of MP Dusan Maric be addressed to the Ministry of Justice. National MP Petar Jojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word under Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6024	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I request a notice from the minister, Mrs Dragutinovic, and from the Minister of Agriculture. I'm asking for a notice from you, so I can answer the citizens who ask me every day, and it's about selling and renting state agricultural land. How much, to whom and when did the Ministry of Agriculture sell the land and how much in the long lease, and that agricultural land owned by the state, the Republic of Serbia? Who were the tenants, and who were the buyers, separately, by name, the name of the company and the name of its owner? Which tenant settled his obligations under the contract within the agreed deadline? What tenant didn't settle his obligations within the agreed deadline? What is the total amount, with each tenant showing a special obligation and its total? Do the tenants who set fire to late pay a tight legal interest on the amount owed and the amount of the heavy legal interest? Did the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture require that the collection be made of tight legal interest on amounts which, under contract, were not paid in time and what was that amount? Did the Ministry of Agriculture seek and terminate contracts with tenants who do not pay the rent, or did not, and what amount was it? How much money from the agricultural land lease has been paid to the special account of the Republic of Serbia's budget, number 8474152284314, with a call to the number and model 97, the code of the municipality, with a control number in accordance with the Terms and Conditions Regulations for the payment of public revenue and the allocation of funds from those accounts? I ask that this information, through written notice, be delivered to us for 2007 and 2008, separately for each tenant. I seek this notice for the reasons why many tenants seek state land and do not pay rent and do not comply with the contracts, and in that case the budget of the Republic of Serbia has been cut and damaged by dozens of billions of dinars, which and how it could help increase pensions and the disability of our well-deserved citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, since this is about corruption and crime, as it is a major and incredible damage, I ask that, in parallel, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture give answers to these questions, because if the Budgetary Inspectorate catches them and controls them, there will be incredible data, dozens of billions of dinars to go to the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6025	I ask the service to direct a stenogram of the presentation of MP Petar Jojic to the Ministry of Agriculture. The word came out, in particular, in the debate, of Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6026	The Honorable Chairman, the Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, this whole debate, which has been going on for days in the Assembly, about this budget, first in principle, and now in particular, reminds me of the situation when people with impaired vision bring an elephant and say, describe the elephant as it looks. Thus, we MPs are also put in a position to declare this budget rebalancing without having been discussed in this assembly for a full five years on the final budget account, which is, by the way, binding under Article 92(3). The Constitution and known to all the MPs, if they have the Constitution, and I suppose they have it. So, if we don't have a final account, if we don't have a valid insight into the state of the budget for five years, how can we even discuss every year the budget proposed again, the proposed budget rebalances, how we can make a valid statement about how the funds were planned, how they were spent, where they were spent, etc.? I'm not an expert on budgets, but I think I can rationally and logically think. For this reason, I think the basic problem and this bill on budget rebalancing is the fact that we don't really know what we're discussing. We have certain figures to declare, we need to move them left-right, up and down, this user, that user, and basically we get one thing, because we can't explain to the citizens of Serbia what this year's budget is being spent on. I'd like to give you one analysis that we've done in LDP in terms of the greatest increase in rebalancing. It's a transfer in compulsory social insurance organisations, where an increase in expenditure is 158 million. When we did that analysis, the cost was 170 million. That was about a week ago. Look at the difference, 12 million, just in a week! That may sound nice and beautiful, here, not 170 anymore, but 158, but we're going to have to get that 12 million difference somewhere, as long as you need it, precisely because of that budget deficit. For subsidies to public non-financial enterprises and organisations, the increase in expenditure is 100 million. At the moment of analysis, it was 110 million. So that's 10 million now less, but that means somewhere it's gonna have to make up for it. Payment of interest per guarantee is almost doubled, i.e. expenditure is doubled. The fines and the penalty for the resolution of courts and judicial bodies – the increase in expenditure is almost nine million euros, and it was 10. The damages or damages caused by state authorities – the increase in expenditure is about 600,000 euros. Reserve funds -- an increase of nearly 20m euros, or even seven times compared to the budget. I guess this is a strong enough argument for all of what we're saying here, and mostly they claim it on this right side of the assembly hall, so only the opposition. We on the left, therefore, from the ruling coalition, have not heard any arguments, nor have we heard the answers to the questions asked, and there are many questions that are both clear and very specific, as far as budgets are concerned. The debate in the assembly should look so that we have arguments for and against. However, we have heard only against here, because the opposition should criticise the budget, but so far we have not heard any valid explanation why we are doing budget rebalances, why we are increasing public spending, why we need to re-burden our citizens to this end, and we are talking about some socially responsible government and government that cares about the well-being of its citizens. How does he care if he increases public spending? All of what is covered by this budget, all of these increases that are aimed at improving existence and the social position of citizens, can be done in some other way, we don't have to put all of this into the budget, all of it to load up, to redistribute to those who can pay, and they can only pay those who do. We know very well that today, less and less those who work, who are employed, whose incomes can be burdened. There is no economic development that will create new jobs, nor can this be seen from this state of the budget and the draft budget rebalancing law, therefore, only those who are currently working, only those who attract, who invest all their capacities, be able to pay for additional burdens, which they will certainly be and must be, because how else do these great appetites of budget users calm down? Why do you keep burdening someone who works hard? Therefore, it would be good to think about some different systemic resolution of these budgetary commitments, because the budget is only being filled by doing what one party is doing, so that the other party, which is not capable of doing so, or for some reason, could benefit from that first party. There is serious money, when we have several cabinets, when we have a cabinet for economic development, and the powers that the cabinet covers can also cover the competent ministries, agencies alike, and we will talk about other ministries and other vice-presidents of the government, or other ministries whose needs are being questioned, for that very reason, because they additionally burden the budget. They may not be funds in some billion amounts, but definitely, each of them carries a few million, so when we build these millions, we get a billion soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6027	Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(2) of the Budgetary System Act. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6028	Mrs. Komic, first of all, I have to protest, solidarity with Mr. Radicals, because they were recently censored; when I turned the microphone towards them, the congregation director turned that microphone off. They have the right to protest, to be dissatisfied with me, to think I'm a thief, and to be a traitor, and to be a foreign mercenary. It is their right, and it is your duty to allow them to think and hear what they think and hear. Therefore, if you allow this kind of work of the Republic Assembly, do not let us have censorship in the Republic Assembly. The only thing that bothers me honestly with Lord Radicals is what they hide their hands for if they're banging into the benches. They're not ashamed, I guess, of course, of their neighbors, friends, members, well, they do it out of conviction. They're not afraid, I guess, of the fines of 3,000 dinars, so I don't suppose it's worth 3,000 dinars today!? We've known each other from a better time, I guess it's not like that. Come on, gentlemen, hands on the benches, as honorable and fair as it looks like real radicals, or at least those radicals I used to know. When it comes to this amendment, let me say that I have submitted an amendment to Article 3, that the amendment applies to public debt, to that part of public debt relating to internal debt. All that I said earlier when I came forward about my colleague Stefan Zankov's amendment, to whom I wish all the best in the election campaign in Književec, remains in this presentation. It is inappropriate for the government and the ministry to treat funds close to nine billion euros in this way. These are, about, the funds that are similar to the amount of this budget. In this budget, you will find, on page 7, all guarantees, all debts, all the loans we intend to borrow, or all the debts that we have so far, and on page 114, you will find one brief explanation, too, 5-6 pages, so that you do not have 13-14 pages in the total budget relating to debts, which are quite large, which have been taken for years, no talk about how the government intends to service these debts in any subsequent period. I think what's worst in this internal debt is that the government had no understanding, again, of the pensioners. We heard a lot about it yesterday, about how pensions should be increased, how they live in very difficult conditions, and in this part, internal debt is paid to those pensioners whom they were created in an earlier period, but they do not respect the debt relating to pensioners who receive agricultural pensions. I think that the government, first of all, was supposed to take care of its debts, the debts it made in the previous period, and only after that, to move on to an increase in pensions, the ones it's now paying off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6029	Anyone else want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6030	I believe that all these amendments relating to Article 3 should be seen as one continent, in order to understand what is under this third group, under this, as you say – V, which is the state of public debt in the Republic of Serbia on 31 August 2008. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know that it is eight billion 730mm 171,000 955 euros. That, if I may say so, is a debt recognised by this government. It's just part of Article 3. In the first part, there is what the government planned during 2008 to allow the Republic of Serbia to be in charge and the Republic of Serbia to give guarantees. Depending on who would be in charge, I need to draw attention to you that Serbia will be guaranteed 80m dollars, 60m Swiss francs and 960m euros and some million euros. The Republic of Serbia guarantees for this task. These are the guarantees laws that are being adopted here, according to the system: these laws must be passed, that the Republic should guarantee, because that's how money comes from abroad, and you're asking for money at all costs, because you're counting on something to end that way. In the beginning, it was structural loans, etc. Here, World Bank, firstly, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, thirdly, the European Investment Bank, fourthly, the German Development Bank KFW, so there are foreign governments, the Government of Spain, the Government of Germany, the Government of the Republic of Austria. Germany and Austria, traditionally, have an interest in this space and care about developing something here with their loans, but guaranteeing the Republic of Serbia, if the JP "Serb Railways" does not pay off, if the Kruševac municipality does not pay off again, if the railway company does not pay off. In sixth place, we have Eurofim, it's again for Railways, in seventh place are some business banks, so we guarantee, the Republic of Serbia appears as a guarantee of some loans they will take, first of all, public enterprises and public institutions, and if they do not return them, then the Republic will have to return from the budget. This is under A. Pod B, in 2008, the Republic of Serbia will approve project loans totalling three types of currencies, of 67 billion. So that's where the Republic of Serbia is in debt. Once again, the World Bank, second is the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, third is the European Investment Bank, fourth – Bank for Development of the Council of Europe, fifth is KFW, Germany Bank, sixth is foreign government, again Spain, so Japan, so the Republic of Italy is seventh in the Commercial Bank ad Belgrade. It should allow the government 12.5m euros for the government to buy an embassy, possibly for a mission from the Republic of Serbia to the EU in Brussels. That's how they manage. So, the purchase of a building for the Embassy of the Republic of Serbia in Brussels. Under V, as part of this article, we have the state of public debt of the Republic of Serbia. That's 8,730,171,955 euros. The state of public debt in the domestic currency is now given. However, it is also shown in the euro, because this government does not believe in the dinar either. There are various securities of value, that we don't order further, so under the second, within the V, public debt is placed in foreign currency, this debt to domestic lenders. If it turns into euro, it's 260 million, but if you look at the foreign debt situation, or in foreign currency, it's 8,469,358,816 euros. When you look at it, you can see that we have the Paris Club, and the London Club, the Government of the Republic of Italy, the development of the private sector through a credit line. It's a debt from before, it's 30m euros and some million euros. That way you can read every possible item. You can see the state of public debt of the Republic of Serbia, which is direct, which is an indirect debt. Both direct and indirect debt falls on the burden of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This has its own dynamics, given the contracts, when what happens, etc. However, for all these duties it has been characteristic, since 2001, that approximately 30 percent were consulting creditor services. So someone gives you a hundred million, 35% returns to the creditor, or he charges his services for helping you translate the contract, installing some of his consultants and paying representatives of those foreign creditors in the country, who sometimes have a last name on "ic" and are recognizable. Nothing new. In this context we had some development projects, we had even whole programs to change regulations, so many professors from the Faculty of Law, Economics, Besa and Begović, was a special institute, etc., quite nicely installed to interpret what was written in the contract and what should be done. All of this is paid by Serbian citizens. Here's what Judith said, it's about an elephant. Show an elephant to a man who has weak vision and ask, "Do you see him?" The devil sees him, he sees nothing. The citizens of Serbia are not allowed to see what this is all about, but that is why the minister will always come out, not this lady, but every finance minister, and has to say that Serbia is not an over-indebted state as long as the obligations can serve properly and that they do not burden anything else, and our deficit is increasing. Now we have 46 billion dinar deficits. I'm telling you it's fictional. When we get the Supreme Auditing Institution, it will control every proposal of the final account before it comes to the National Assembly. As much as the National Assembly has this control function, it is unable to carry out accounting and accounting checks on everything that is done in the government, in the financial sense of the word, and on all budget users. The purpose of the Supreme Auditing Institution is, precisely, to carry out that control as auditors, to inform us, to distract us, not to draw attention to the government as to how they're going to write something down. We've had this situation before, when it was SDK, so he says -- you've prepared the budget well, but you have to re-write this, it's not going to this position, it's going to that position. It's the same as when Micun renovated what these five-eyed men set on fire. They set fire to the Federal Assembly building, came a great help to resuscitate it, Lucic and Micunovic made some sort of deal, and first it went like this, and then there had to be an NGO, and then it had to be built through an NGO, and then Micun arranged parquet and this. Lucic's out of state office, trying to get him to be the deputy secretary here, we've been taking a shit about this crime. Who found the crime? Ma'am, crime has established a budget inspection, headed by Mladjan Dinkic. That's where he cares, because you had to go together afterwards. So there's no profession, there's no coalition capacity. That's how it happens with us. So we think the whole of Article 3, of course, under V, shows the state. We may like it, or not like it, but it is a state – eight and a little more billions are in charge of the state. When I say state, first of all, I mean what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for. Otherwise, the debt of the Republic of Serbia, if legal, natural persons, businesses, etc. are taken abroad, is incomparably higher, but the government says, "We have no connection with this debt, we recognize these eight billion and 700 and we service it in some way." There is a great danger when it is owed to foreign states or governments of foreign states. Some countries do not appear here, and to them there is not only a material-financial obligation, but there is one much more important one, which is a political obligation. For example, there's the United States and Great Britain. You won't find them anywhere in these books, but their people are at the Department of Defense, they're at the War Crimes Court, they're at the Justice Department, they're at the Ministry of Finance. They may not be in your office, but they are in your office, as they are in other institutions, and they do so. Monitoring, watching, "just watching you." They're just watching what they're doing. In this building, on the fourth floor, there was a listening unit controlled by the Sutanovac and another one whose name I won't mention now. When we took a shit, they transferred it from here and now they're where the Belgrade girl is. This kind of condescending and addiction from the American ambassador, from the English ambassador, has become terrible. Even someone who boasts that the opposition must invite them to the Sava Center, simply, must, there is no other. You leased it, and you know what it's like to rent it, that kind and that pathological desire grabs it. There was some possibility that we could take some credit from abroad, grab it right away. Here, it's like an epochal success. Why success? Because we're becoming absolutely addicted. From who? From the one who bombed us, who calls us today. Do you see people and what's going on? About Rack, for example, she's heard the truth now. No one is suffering the consequences, and just to remind you, Racak was one of the direct causes of Serbia's bombing. Serbia was not bombed in Kosovo and Metohija, but was bombed in downtown Belgrade, and in Novi Sad, and not to list everything in order. The state and the people who run the country must have some kind of morale. Is this how you bring good things to the citizens? Are these debts, these loans, these guarantees and this as a representation of the debt situation, in the role of vital interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia? No, they're not. Whose interest do they represent? One small group of people who create our lives. There are media magnets, as a means of pressure, there are individuals in power. I can't charge them all. There are people from the NBS who need to secure the sustainability of the banking system, and you heard it yourself, today seven banks registered on the stock market some negative rates. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mrs. Comic, I can't blame you, because your kind of collateral damage is when someone comes out here, so move the microphone, so the poor guy's got to be brave enough to say something here. You need to know, Mrs. Comic, they're chasing SRS committees and offering them big money, some. If you don't believe me, here's Mr. Tomislav, who'll explain it to you, not this one, but this Tomislav from Leskovec, which is what the ones you're guarding are for. I know you hate that they're in this room, but what can I do for you, I don't have Boris Tadic here, I have to call you back.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6031	The MP, regardless of the personal remarks and the dialogue attempted to be established, has not been given any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and cannot give you any explanation, except that together we remind ourselves that I am mandatory under Article 27, which is to take care of the order at the session, which means that all speakers are heard in peace and quiet, with due regard and respect. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was not mentioned by Krasic, but by the previous folk. When it comes to dignity, honesty and loyalty to the SRS, this is exactly what the SRS parliamentary group in Leskovac has shown, which has insisted on all the pressures and all the offers that have been made in Leskovac. It was offered to every committee candidate, and in the means of information, I'm going to let you read, constantly, in 10 days' time, three committee members were asked to transfer the other coalition group that would form power. In the entire campaign and the euphoric situation, funds were offered, at the beginning of 3,000 euros, up to 5,000 euros, and later, as the assembly session approached, 24, this increased to 20, to 30, so that the day ahead of the assembly session would reach 50,000 euros. By name and last name, I can notify the authorities of the interior, the minister of police, to check it out. We have accurate information about what people were visiting, what people were offered, and where our committees were visited in the night. After all, in the whole situation, from the "yellow company" they were so interested that they were from Jablani County, not just Leskovac, from Lebana municipality, the president of Lebanon offered employment for three council members, to work at SO Lebanese. One committeeman, his family member, was also offered to hire him, who got the solution, and when he got out, that solution was taken away from him. In any case, the solution he's got, our councilman would certainly present it to you. That with a great deal of patience, in all of the past, the yellow company has created such a situation and tension, pressure on the SRS, that is. On the council, it's been for a month. For what reason? It is that they have 25 mandates, but with G17 and SPO, and the SRS itself in Leskovac has won three mandates. It is to the satisfaction of the citizens of Leskovac municipality that has formed power and all those issues that are of great importance for the citizens of the municipality of Leskovac, headed by Mayor Goran Cvetanović, to their satisfaction, to realize, all those demands and needs of the people of Leskovac municipality, which are vitally important. If representatives of the "yellow company" in Leskovac could have something, that they were able, that they had the potential to do something, they had opportunities from 2000 to today and until the last election...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6033	Three minutes, MP, you haven't said a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6034	... 225 and 226.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6035	I ask you then to ask for some information, otherwise you create a basis for me to give you a warning about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In Articles 225 and 226...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6036	... Mr. Antić, because just now Antic mentioned the SRS and representatives of the SRS...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6037	National MP, the right to reply has the president of the parliamentary group, the deputy president of the parliamentary group, the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, if the representative of the second parliamentary group mentions in a negative, offensive context the parliamentary group seeking a replica. You don't have the right to a replica. You didn't say...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6038	... Chairman, I feel like you're being offended, let me just finish this one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6039	People's MP, there's no word here of insult, no permission to have any more rights than any other MP. You asked for a word based on Article 100(1) to say which member was injured. You didn't do it in three minutes... National MP Milan Škrbić throws it away, which is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, while I am in charge of giving an explanation to a MP who obviously did not consult the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and asked for a word. So, in the third minute, the Rules of Procedure prescribed the time to make a request for an explanation, you didn't do it. I asked you, and then you said you were looking for a replica. I thank you and ask you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure next time, since this is the basis for a warning. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Jorvanka Tabakovic submitted. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(2) of the Budgetary System Act. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6040	Dear fellow Members of the People, citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 which, in parts marked as project loans, internal debt and indirect obligations of the Republic of Serbia, is, in fact, talking about the duty and the way in which the Republic of Serbia, through its body called the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in a document that we glegonically call budget rebalancing, cares about the public debt. The remarks I tried to make through this amendment will be explained by the Government's Memorandum, which was published on 10 October 2008 and by the complete official data published by the Republic Statistics Institute, in its two statistical contributions, one in the number 1/2008 and the second in number 3, it means, it talks about the end of 2007. What I want to intrigue you about to understand the seriousness of the problem I'm talking about is the share of the annual debt payments in the gross social product. In 2001, according to the official source of the Bureau of Statistics, all of us, so Serbian citizens, through the budget, were singled out of total produced goods and services 3.7%. In 2007, the share of the annual debt in the gross social product is 29.8%. It's mathematically allowed to round these 29.8% to 30%. When compared in 2001 and 2007, almost 10 times increased the share of annual debt payments in the gross social product. Has the number of jobs been increased almost 10 times, or is this justifying new credit obligations? Is it close to 10%, or ten or nine times the population standard, so that the loans can find their justification? What concerns is that technique, which I am talking about on several occasions, which the government is trying to reduce the effects of its bad moves by expressing external debt in billions of euros, so that it would psychologically impress citizens that it is less, because 8.8 billion euros seems less for non-indulgent citizens, or they don't want to be afraid, but when you say that that debt is $29 billion, the official data. This technique that tries to present itself to a smaller one is also not used in the event that the National Bank, for example, represents foreign reserves as a result of its successful policy, which will allegedly be able to defend the course, savings and stability of the financial system, and through it, and the system of the entire real sector. Why isn't that possible? What a ruse. Why such a trick is inadmissible, speaks exactly the Memorandum of Budget. I will mention again the Public Debt Administration, which, by law here voted, is obliged to take care of external debt and its sustainability. It is amazing that in 2008, on page 24, you are publishing a public debt management strategy, what you are legally obliged to in 2005, means that you are setting up a Public Debt Administration, which will function within the Ministry of Finance, the Treasury Administration and worry about the priorities you listed, and they are, for example, reducing the volume of emissions of the vault records, paying off another series of bonds issued on the basis of the debt of the National Bank of Serbia. To translate into citizens, not only do you have a duty to reduce credit debt from abroad, but also to print paper from the value of which you withdraw money from circulation, to do so in accordance with the Public Debt Act, which says that the state has the right to use printed securities, means it affects financial flows only if there are problems in the flow of funds and if that flow is uncontinuous, which can, literally, iron unbalanced inflows into the budget. What does that mean? The government of the Republic of Serbia, through its ministry and never formed public debt administration, has vowed to take care of the process of broadcasting securities from value and says, on page 27, that the value of the Treasury Administration can only be entered into the process after the maximum amount of borrowing has been agreed in principle. The budget rule should be formalized by some of the legal acts. And it goes on to say, "It could be the Constitution." In 2008, the Government of the Memorandum, its Bible, says – should set the limits of responsibilities and some act. At the beginning of my presentation, I told you that this foreign debt, with $10 billion in 2001, literally increased to $30 billion at the end of 2007, exactly 29. Is such growth sustainable, did he deserve that what you write is already being translated into legal projects and into formal behaviour? This is a tactics we can call – Mr. Mladjan Dinkic's tactics, a promise that the people should take as the right to enter free action. Mr Dinkic is here on behalf of the government, because he does not perform here as a private person, giving the entire government responsibility for his behaviour, came out with a promise of actions worth a thousand euros per citizen. It's not a problem that it was for election purposes. The problem is that a manipulative is built that citizens must accept the promise as a real act. The problem is that through the privatisation process, funds for denationalisation are being pooled, which no one has any idea when time will be realized and how. That's a promise. The problem is that we are promised to take care of the credit risk, the currency risk and the maturity of the loan, but that is not the case. The problem is that in the Memorandum you delivered, or you were obliged to publish in the Official Messenger, you write as a goal, which I will always stand behind, that the sustainable level of public debt-to-gross social product relationship must also be complemented by the public debt-to-income ratio. I welcome the goal, but the goal is not to do, the goal is not to act, the goal is to respect. The gross social product, which is deliberately bloated to put us to sleep in our duties, is not sufficiently corrective to enter into these obligations and to consume citizens, young generations, the future. As loans return from the budget and citizens return all loans listed on these four sides and guarantees, indirect liabilities and direct loans, for whatever purpose they are, the only criterion for the level of debt must be the ratio of public debt and fiscal income. It's not enough for you to publish a Memorandum, which is called a list of good wishes, it's your obligation, like the Government, to carry it out. It is your obligation, as Government, to create an annual balance sheet of assets and liabilities that one state has and cannot claim here, nor to question the explanation that credit is an obligation. The question that I'm opening here is, is it a credit expense? Is the loan a expense? The answer to this question depends on what you invested it in, how much it cost and whether it resulted in an increase in revenue in the budget. Where are we going to see that? Where do we estimate that? I cannot agree with those who say there is no final account. There is, for 2007, you delivered us, and for 2006. Someone can read, someone can't, but you didn't put it on the agenda of the assembly session. From it we would have to see what this government has collected from income, how it has used these loans, what is the situation in budget and fund accounts, where money flows from the privatisation of those shut down and sold out banks in two categories, where foreign exchange reserves are, and we have heard these days, in America, by saving these citizens, we are developing an American state. We also heard that foreign exchange reserves are in the Bundesbank, but we don't know how much this country is charging interest on these foreign exchange reserves. You are obliged to say in this house what you have sold and what you have earned. The budget and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Law is an opportunity and place where you can only be assessed whether you have successfully run the State or not. This performance cannot be transmitted to the tabloid newspapers and to the affairs of any mafia, any agency and any abuses. Every organ has to do its job. Tabloids and any other newspaper, journalists analysts, must question, but they cannot replace the jurisdiction of the Republika Srpska Assembly and your responsibility for using these funds. Why do I say that? The achievement of the objectives, the increase in employment and the standards of the population, which you put in the Memorandum as a goal this time, I welcome, but it can only be achieved if you organise yourself as professionals in the exercise of the budgetary authority who will work in the interests of your people. Such debt without reporting, without filing an account, is the spending of the future, not the responsible exercise of power. Thank you. (For the entire duration of the speech of MP Jorgvanka Tabakovic, the SRS MPs were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6041	I thank Mrs Tabakovic, who, despite being a member of the SRS Group, had a concentration and addressed Parliament to the end in line with the plan she herself made. The word is Mr Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and then Mr Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to apologize to the citizens of Serbia for the behaviour of the MPs I have brought into this hall of the National Assembly. I'm really glad you're back, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. Your approval of this behaviour seems to me to be a co-operation where you "yellow" profit, aware that the public's attention is being turned away from a very difficult crisis that Serbia is entering safely, along with the rest of the world, an enormous increase in the prices of basic life supplies, communals, all the infrastructure services that the state provides to the citizens of Serbia, with a very risky situation in Kosovo and Metohija, and we are going to be distracted here. I repeat, I'm glad you're here, as a kind of neuropsychiatrist, a professor at medical school, a court expert, to confirm, or to say that I'm wrong when it seems to me that this is a state of extended puberty, and that these movements are very similar to those of young people in puberty very often with their own hands. Therefore, I apologize to you, dear citizens, and you are not aware of how bizarre the situation is in the Hall of the National Assembly. I apologize to you as a domicile among the MPs. This has never happened, and this will never happen again in the National Assembly. These will no longer be able to pass in the National Assembly. So please, gentlemen of the DS, don't calculate any more, don't recalculate, don't make any arrangements on how to make a little noise, let the session run a little bit. We're going to a new election. In the new elections, Serbia will be divided into two normal political options, which will, in a normal way, be replaced with power, that once a national representative, a national MP, looks like a MP. A common MP who has just dared to hurt me with his foot, to say the truth is that a copy can hurt a human leg, but it's not a rescue for that MP. (For the entire duration of the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6043	Mr. Nikolic, you're mad at those you've brought into politics, and you're complaining to me about having a session. I am also taking this opportunity to warn the MPs of the SRS that there are a lot of elements to give notices and other measures. I expect that this method of expressing your own dissatisfaction and animosity towards the parliamentary group that was part of you until a few days ago will change. I, indeed, ask you, and in the name of the citizens, to do so. We are all building together the dignity of this assembly, not just the president. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? Mr. Mijaljević Sladjan, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6044	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of the country of Serbia, I am so fortunate that Mr Tomislav Nikolic has not brought me into politics or into the parliament of the Serbian state. I am in politics, at least as far as I came in, and I was brought into Parliament by Dr Vojislav Seselj, from the third attempt. He was overjoyed for it, after these months when I saw what was happening, which Tomislav Nikolic could not bring me into something, or lead me to something that he was propagating here today, across the country of Serbia, making various coalitions with those who threw tons and tons of bombs at us. Thank you to Mr Vojislav Seselj for his honor and trust that I am an MP for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6045	The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 104. Rules of Procedure - dignity of the National Assembly. Since Mr Nikolic claims that he has introduced me and other colleagues into this parliament, I would ask him to introduce us to that villa he has in Bajcetina, to introduce us to a 200-square apartment, with a pool, in one jeep or another expensive car. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you claim here that you cannot work for us. That's not true. We can't work for you. On the same principle, as Tomislav Nikolic has now addressed, tomorrow I can bring in ten, fifteen, twenty, fifty of my Nišli, tell them what they should talk about and that, practically, this parliament is working on this agenda until the end of its term.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6047	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6048	First of all, I need to draw your attention to Article 27 and Article 104. The Rules of Procedure are not police provisions, but Article 27 obliges you to keep an eye on the application of Article 104. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you are obviously unable to do this, you are a painful woman, and that country factor has played its part, and so people who work to ensure that Vojislav Seselj never comes, to die in The Hague tribunal, are given the opportunity here to disabling additional citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I have to say, the Fourth District Public Prosecutor's Office has finally started working. They gave us one request to collect the necessary notices, so, let's say, the place where 78 MPs gave the unrevocable resignation, the date and time when MPs had put their mandates at their disposal to the SRS, etc., that the text of the resignation, who had dactylographically made resignations, whether it was misleading, whether it was not signed, if someone had not signed it, and in the other part there was also a request for us to complete criminal reporting of some data, much less data being sought, and because of the abuse of official position by this large mediator from Bajcetina. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I know you have a deal with Boris Tadic, and you had it the moment Radovan Karadzic was to be delivered, you have it now. The dirty work on Serbia is not done. The task is to contain the SRS, so if necessary, an empty stapler, a pebble, can do anything, let the citizens of Serbia deal with the waste, and these things pass in the appropriate silence. That's impossible. This is not the first time the SRS has been cleaned up, thrown away, but this is the first time that a foreign factor is involved, and that it is conducting, that in another way it has found suitable ground among some apostates to engage in the dirtiest business, to be accomplices, I must draw your attention, for now, only in the attempted murder of Vojislav Seselj. Vojislav Seselj was also banned from communication for 30 days, thanks to someone cheating on the public, but I must draw attention to you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, that quotes a citizen who just came here because he does not pay a television subscription, so that he observes the progress of the National Assembly. As you have seen, the debate on amendments has been very fundamental, I expect the government will learn some lessons, and the citizens have certainly learned a lesson. Then keep in mind when, in order, you give a word to whom you give the word and make sure, when it's an empty stapler, it's put aside.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6049	The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6050	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, MPs, I was in the office on the second floor when I heard someone exposed from the SRS, who no longer represents anyone. I have an obligation, given what counterpart Krasic mentioned, it is a serious matter, a criminal application for stealing the resignations of MPs elected on the SRS list - Dr Vojislav Seselj. It's called a hypocrisis, right, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, in your profession and the loss of every real... You know, unlike those who laugh at what I accidentally make a lapus, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I insist, because you're an expert in all disease addiction, and I'm following the movements of the individuals here who are citizens, to establish a white line here, to see how these drunk people get in here and how they parade on the orders of these En-Di-Yi (NDI), or those who advise them, those who have already gone all psychically. As for morals and what happened with the resignations, I have to do it for the public, not everyone knows, maybe all the MPs of the SRS, come back on June 10th, around 9:00. As a responsible member of the SRS, which I have been since the day of my party's membership, I respect the party's authorities and everything that needs to be done for the interests of the party and to defend the people's will. This particular individual, who is a friend of Canet Frog and Žarko Rabbit, see how criminals have nicknames, Rabbit, Frog, means that he is a tadpole or Toma Kvorak, however I call and ask – yes, when we should come to the National Assembly, given that tomorrow's session is scheduled and mandates should be verified. My memory really serves me well, and those individuals know that, too, because I can remember talking to both radicals and other people, as someone said, I have a head to film. No, I have a good relationship with what's honor and what's trust that someone tells me. You know, if the meeting is scheduled for ten hours, I have to ask, on the day when the mandates are verified, whether me and the other colleagues should be here a day early. That someone says, what, you ask me, I need your resignations, come on, please, and then it goes and... But I, as a decent lady, cannot speak curses which, by the way, are a manner and a dictionary of that individual. You can see that resignations were necessary, but to steal. Therefore, on the basis of all these publicly made statements, in every place, and from the assembly booth, be sure, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the citizens of Serbia, that this individual, will return those resignations as "white lala". Radicals don't have a spear, but you know that old folk saying, since it's now modern to be like this or like that, and the citizens see it all, so that this is not a pub in Bajchetina, but the National Assembly has seen the frog soaring, and she's raising her leg, and this one right here, which was thrown between the two benches.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6051	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I will endure and endure all of what my friends are saying this morning. I'm counting on them to talk a little bit about themselves, but if we're at fault for lost resignations, I've had beekeeper Daco from Guca, an SRS board member in the Luciana municipality, and he says that Miss Natasa Jovanovic lost their resignations and that's why they, as a Serbian Progressive Party, are councillors in the Luciana municipality, because their mandates can't be taken from them. Is it a crime that you, Miss Jovanovic, have lost the resignations of the Lucan councilman? I don't think it's a crime, and I'm not accusing you of giving it to the SNS. There's something else about this. Can't you see what you're doing to yourself? Can't you see you're getting shorter? Can't you see what you've put your political action into if we're such thieves? And to you, Mr. Krassic, I say my village is called Bajcetina and you do not insult the 17 peasants who live in it. You know very well what that village is called. I don't insult any of you, so don't insult the peasants who live there. Can't you see that this policy of yours is a very visible end? You hold on till 9 November, and if you beat us anywhere in these four local self-governments, I accept that you go out and say whatever you want about us. And what if you lose to us in those four local self-governments? What if the people punish you for this pointless benching? Some of you and some of you have been practicing those hand movements. Then what's it gonna be? You say I'm a multibillionaire. You're lying about having a pool. The first private pool in which I had ever bathed in my life 10 years ago was the Vojislav Seselj swimming pool. Well, how is it possible that someone can have and someone can't? As your warrants are issued on those speakers up there, like after World War II, you're listening to a lecture on speakers in the offices. Please, I'm sorry to see the SRS disappear. I feel a part of what I created, and I didn't create, indeed, the Heart, I didn't create you, and I can't remember, I don't know a man who could create you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6053	Ms. Jovanovic has an agreement with you to speak before all of you, although there are several other injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6054	Something like this, such immorality and a person who in this way can represent any policy, if a person has ever stood here with dignity, integrity, someone who is the leader or head of a family, not that he cannot bathe the pool of an honorable Serb and hero, Dr Vojislav Seselj, but also Sava and Danube, and not all the seas of this world.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6055	Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6056	Perhaps it is good that the public in Serbia can hear what is being done in this people's congregation. When a crisis of identity and authority prevails, then a man comes out, well, instead of cheeks, he demonstrates the bottom. You saw for yourself, he didn't blink at a moment, to say – I stole 14 or 18 mandates from the SRS and citizens who voted for the SRS, but he's starting with Mitrovica – if you do, he's safe already, he's already agreed. Who's to guarantee him? American Ambassador, English Ambassador, Rocky, Italian Stallion. Who guarantees him more? All those who will buy votes. Where? In Vranjska Banja, in Književec, Prepolje, Rumi. And why are voices being bought? To keep this going. Is this a national representative? While he was in the SRS, we could hold it somehow under control, but when he starts out as a free radical, it's carcinogenic and it makes Democrats. That's what history has shown, the history of the political scene in Serbia. When some free radicals appeared, they made DS, but now DS before them exists, and then this is Boris Tadic's right hand and in this country, except Boris Tadic, no one supports such specimens. But Boris Tadic needs these specimens to disabling life in Serbia, so that the main topic is this. Honest people, honest people, my village, your village, I insult, you don't insult. Who have I offended? I didn't insult any ordinary man, and I don't need to insult him, but I didn't insult this citizen either. I'm just saying, guys, bring back what's not yours, and when you get back what's not yours, there's no dispute. It's a long way from home. Travel the igumans, but return what is not yours. And here the operation was next, to steal 50, so to say, these 28 are not representatives, and Tadic would say, "That's right, and the job is done." For what? To destroy Serbia and help kill Vojislav Seselj in The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6057	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6058	No one in the National Assembly can support what constitutes a wasteland of potential killers.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6059	Will you bring the end, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6060	That's the word, Mrs. Djukic, these are Broz's guys, who meet the conditions, that's exactly what this is about. (Cell phone's off)
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6061	Mrs Elena Christmas-Talian, then Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6062	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thank God, and we are not brought into Parliament by Tomislav Nikolic, but by the ideology and programme of Dr Vojislav Seselj and the SRS. Tomislav Nikolic was too caught up in supporting his powerful friends, financials, tycoon. He was executed by the praises of the American and British ambassadors. He received a certificate from the British ambassador that he had pro-Europeanly evolved, and that certificate was given thanks to his all-powerful spit on himself yesterday. By his own admission, he became raised, nice, decent, and normal during the night. So until then, he was insane. It is indeed a kind of psychological phenomenon, it must be acknowledged, and I strongly recommend it to experts, because people in the fields of psychiatry and neuropsychiatry have been struggling for years to achieve such results in various therapies that he has managed to achieve overnight. Mr Nikolic, you, by your own admission, have said to the press – why until then you have not made public statements about your meetings with the US and British ambassador, so far I have respected the ideologies of the SRS. Since you do not respect the ideologies of the SRS now, return the mandates that belong to us. You, Mr. Nikolic, have cracked and finished in every way, in moral, political, and seems mental.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6063	Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6064	Mr Tomislav Nikolic, on the day you were disfellowshipped by the Central Fatherland Authority of the SRS, I thought I'd never mention your name. I'm not answering now because you personally insulted me, or because you may not have such a possibility, or you have no intention. You have not offended the SRS MP group, comparing the movements of their hands, because these are honest and honorable hands. To remember the hand of Dobroslav Prelic, Milan Škrbić, Srboljub Zivanovic and many other hands that are here and other hands in Serbia. You have not brought me into this parliament, you have probably won more votes in the elections, on that list, than I would have had, but it is certain that you did not say to any voter, "Plase for Sreta Periæ". I did it for you, as an SRS candidate. That's what happened. Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, I don't have any enemies, I didn't mind, but there are people with whom I reduce communication. They tell me something in confidence and I never use it. You say you took a bath in someone's pool. The man you took a bath in was a doctor when you were 24, and you graduated a few days ago. I guess that man deserved to have a pool so many years before you. That's not why I answered. I called about the next one. Like everyone in the SRS, I love all citizens of Serbia, both young and older, both male and female, but you have offended a large number of youth, citizens of Serbia, who are not in a position to answer you now. You said the movements of the hand look like those young women who are in late puberty. The movements of these youngsters have made one such group now sitting in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6065	I'm afraid this dialogue is not about the reputation of the former or current radicals, but that's what you're taking care of. Mrs. Elena Christmas - Italian.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6066	Mr Tomislav Nikolic was throwing something...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6067	Just tell me the base of the call.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6068	Dignity of the Assembly, Article 104. He's not a gentleman. Nikolic, I can't say sir. So Nikolic threw something away while I was walking towards the bench and I'd like him to say it publicly, since he's already got a certificate that he's pro-Europeanly evolved, that he doesn't behave ratically.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6069	The People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6070	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, I'm advertising Article 27. Rules of Procedure and, for who knows which time, Article 24. Rules of Procedure. You have appealed to the SRS Parliamentary Group not to express our dissatisfaction when a certain group of citizens here take their word and speak for the speaker. I must say again that I warn you that the MPs of the SRS can't take this situation any further, so that you don't carry out what you're responsible for. "She's getting old on applying the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly." The rules of procedure clearly state how the committees of the National Assembly are formed. When you look at the composition of the board, say, the Education Committee, you will see that a certain citizen is the Princeevic, the SNS Parliament Club. What kind of SNS MP club is this, and the party is the SRS? You don't react to this kind of behavior. So you're breaking the Rules of Procedure and the Law, and then you honor us for rebelling? We simply do not allow the citizen, Dr Milan 'prebeg', to say that he has acquired his status by criminal means, which you here support, an MP from the SRS. Please change that, and then it'll probably be different behavior and us Serbian radicals. Why won't you change it, I don't know. If you look at the same Board of Education, for the two citizens you tolerate here that the SNS MP group, and it doesn't matter, on the second part of our website, it says that the MP group is "Go, Serbia". We do not know what is true. They have two members on this committee from that group, and there's only one SRS. If we even adopt that they're legal here, and they're not legal here, they belong to 8% of the place, and to the SRS 24%. How do you allow such a violation of the Rules of Procedure and then still wonder how we react? We'll react, of course. As for Mr. Nikolic, when someone is very tall and falls down, it's horrible and clots. I wouldn't deal with it at all, I understand only that it's human when someone can't stand not being the first. It's a terrible shame to mention someone who can't answer you. That's it. I'm asking you to respond to what I've pointed out here for the third time, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, just from you and from your assistants, or from your assistant.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6071	Mr. Momchilov, to your question, on many occasions, and me and the others who chaired, we gave an answer. As the parliamentary group will be called, it decides. Which will be used by the keybinding, too, it decides. I believe that you are dissatisfied with my answer and the fact that this MP group exists, but on many occasions, we have spoken about the instances that you can also address to receive an adequate answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6072	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I am quite clear. Don't say we're responsible for doing anything. You, under Rule 27, are responsible for the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Article 24 clearly states: "Employment groups propose board members to a proportion of Members of Parliament". Please, we don't have to run anything. When you see that there is a disproportion, how you don't mind that the citizen is Knezevic, Prof. Dr. Milan, the SNS party, I don't understand it at all. What do we need to do? All we need to do now is, perhaps, apply some physical educational measures, which we certainly would never apply, to convince someone that Mr. Knezevic of the SNS is not a party to the SRS. She didn't put that on the SRS site, that's your jurisdiction. We don't have any influence on that. Please don't honor us so we don't. We are not obliged, you are obliged to respect this Rules of Procedure, and we are constantly telling you that it is being violated. We don't need to change any of this rules of procedure. You should start the initiative and say that there are more MPs in the Education Committee, let them be called whatever they want. We call them traitors, of course they're traitors, it's clear to everyone now, and you call them whatever you want, but then you tell them that one of them leaves this committee, and wherever there is such an unhealthy situation, cure that situation. We're just talking about it, nothing more. Don't give us clouded answers that it's our fault and that you understand our dissatisfaction.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6073	Mr. Momčilov, Mr. Todorovic, as well as all the heads of the parliamentary groups, received a letter from me and verbally agreed to fill the board in proportion to the number of MPs in the parliamentary groups more than two weeks ago. The only parliamentary group that has not delivered personal solutions to the proportional quotas it has received is your parliamentary group. I thank you if you personally engage to get those names, because then we will already form committees at this session accordingly. So it's not, it's just, okay, for the sake of the public, that you're making a point to me about something that doesn't stand. The moment the relationship changed in the number of parliamentary mandates per member of parliament groups, we sat down, agreed. In writing, I've notified all the heads of Parliament, including your boss. I'm just expecting a personal solution, so we can formally bring this job to an end at this session. I would like to thank you in advance, confident that the argument that you have made here will also be made at your MP's club. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6074	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm reporting under Rule 225. I have a need to inform the MPs, and you, too, that the DSS Parliamentary Group has just submitted a bill amending the Law on Higher Education. We have recently adopted amendments and amendments to the Law on Higher Education, but there is one serious problem left – what happens when more students than the number that can be financed from the budget meet the condition of being financed from the budget. We are solving this problem with this bill, thinking that the best thing to do is to resolve this problem by law, and not to leave it at the benefit of the participants in the process, so also the minister and everyone else. Of course, we asked for an emergency procedure, because they're enrolling in the next school year at college. The law foresaw, you will see for yourself, a completely fair solution in this business, by retaining, of course, what was well done by previous changes, the one part that relates to the reduction of the required number of points. I also ask the President of the Assembly for the urgency of putting this law on the table at the first next session, of course, and to make it clear. Of course, the DSS Parliamentary Group is fully open to all possible proposals and additions to the proposed text. We are in this text, you will see for ourselves, that the only criterion that should be in force there is, right now, the success of students in the current course of the study, without favouring any category of students. So students who study and finance themselves from the budget, and students who finance themselves, enter the race equally, and they are the best, objectively the best, who have shown the best results, gain the right to further school from the budget. The rest remain able to finance themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6075	Thank you. The law will be included in the first next session, given that you have proposed an emergency procedure, and the Assembly will declare that agenda. Therefore, it will also be proposed by emergency procedure included in the first next session. National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government and the Financial Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10(2) of the Budgetary System Act. The word is Mr. Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6076	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since budget rebalances and amendments are on the agenda for the revenue that are being made and directed towards users, for reminders, just a little bit about the budget. The budget is an act of the representative body that envisions and approves the incomes and expenditures of republics, cities and municipalities for a certain budget period, as a rule, for one year. The budget provides and schedules expenditures and revenues to ensure continuity in the functioning of public functions and the coordination of state spending with economic policy and its opportunities. The economic function of the budget is multiple. Over the budget, more than one third of national income is required in modern countries. Through the budget, it can, directly or indirectly, affect the production, volume and structure of consumption, reproduction, the establishment of state-owned enterprises, state-owned investments and various subsidies in certain sectors of the economy, etc. Significant acquisitions, services and public works in general, with their expenditures, the state appears as a major factor of demand and global balance on the market, as well as its formation. Budgetary consumption is a significant component of aggregate demand, which has an impact on prices and economic balance. For these reasons, budgetary policy is integrated into the general economic policy of the state. As part of anti-inflation policy, and especially in the state of demand inflation, the budget is a significant instrument for the compression of demand. The state then runs a restrictive budget policy, reduces state spending and implements budget surplus policies. Otherwise, in the context of overcoming economic depression, increasing budget spending, increasing aggregate demand and thus stimulating economic recovery. In the case of inflation of costs, a reduction of budget revenues, the state relieves the economy of fiscal commitments and creates an opportunity to compensate for cost increases and avoid rising prices. Ladies and gentlemen, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and from the rebalancing of this budget, I would like to point out some remarks. The amendments to the legal rules in Serbia's budget system after 2000 open some new ones, rather than giving answers to some previously open and unresolved issues of reform of this key segment of the public finances of the Republic of Serbia. The following facts are crucial. The implementation of transition reforms throughout the fiscal sector, especially in the public sector in the field of fiscal policy, involves an extremely serious and long-term process, which must be planned in phases, both by year and by reform structure. The Slovenians, for example, first made the plan, following their deleveraging with the former SFRY state. In fact, the key function of a single state, and especially of transition states, is the redistribution of national income, national wealth, and this is the main activity of every government in the world. This is done everywhere in the world through tax policy, income entry and expenditure policy, expenditure. The main document that contains this is, of course, the budget of one state. Budget experts around the world, usually define the budget as the main instrument to show what the government has been doing, what the government is doing or what it intends to do in one state. On the side of income, as a first condition, the government must have fiscal caution and responsibility, i.e. to assess fiscal risk, tax burden, as regards the possibility of taxpayers to allocate funds for expenditure from the budget. Starting in 2001, many changes in Serbia's budget system were made, but many of them did not consistently respect certain specificities of the situation in our public finances, whether from the established earlier system, the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expension, or during public finance reforms, and at the latest some of the changes remained on the sidelines, and the consequences of the non-resolvement were not addressed at all. For example, the long-term strategy for planning changes in public finances, especially in the budget system, does not exist for the next few years at all. Serious countries in transition, such as Slovenia, first made a change plan and the phases in which the vault is being introduced, when consolidated, united, which group is which bearer of public expenditure, as well as budget users, funds, PIOs, health care and the like. In this regard, the important link in the whole reform is information support, machine, software, IT, and especially personnel and their training. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam Minister, the particular problem is that there is not a single final account in Parliament since 2001, so it is not possible to determine whether and to what extent budget procedures are good, and in particular, without the revision of the final budget account and the revision of budget procedures, it is not possible to assess whether these measures, the reform of the budget system, are quite good or not. The way in which the final result is determined, the operations of the budget as a financial document, is the methodology for calculating surpluses and budget deficits, and what is most frightening, in the course of the implementation itself, the duration of the implementation of the budget, which, given the active current business of the budget, which is one living document that follows, through the vault, all the current and future, and especially the unsettled commitments, regularly in the budget, leaves a major dilemma for each of the participants in the budgetary process, whether it is at the level of the Republic budget of the user, or at the local level, the user of the municipal, or city budget. If you remember the claim that had been made by the Transport and Roads Company and the Directorate, a few years ago, between five and six billion dinars, there was debt to their subcontractors, road companies, and these companies owe the state taxes, whose delay, on the guilt of the state, is interest on the extremely high penalty interest, which I remember, about 20%, which is, in fact, the right measure of inflation in one country, because the state never allows it to be charged with funds. This information is fairly hidden, it is possible to check it in any solution by the financial, or budgetary police and budget inspections. In serious countries, the government and the finance minister, above all, are at stake for such an excessive tax procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, when you look at the one state's microsurgery budget, I said last time, the most dangerous service in the country is, in relation to the budget, the Ministry of Finance and its right hand, the extended arm, the tax administration, which can break the economy without big shit and shouting, and in a very short time, a simple and simple blockade of those taxpayers who are precisely creating income and depending on the budget and their users, and in the next period, it will be very negatively reflected in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, in the 2007 budget of the Republic of Serbia, the figure is 42 billion dinars for special services and goods. Imagine, special favors. What are the special services that are supposed to cost 42 billion dinars? Now I'm going to remind you, Madam Minister, that for 42 billion dinars, it was possible to buy 14,000 tractors of the middle category and to give these tractors to individual farmers, that these individual producers produce products for the state and for the export, not to let us sell, as is happening with us, both the house and the alley. In this, Serbia is a tragic country, and only the Serbian radicals in this country can make a commitment and take this people on their way, provide them with better prosperity than anyone promises in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6077	Anyone else want a word? The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Palalic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6078	Dear Presidents, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, as popularly called rebalancing, is an opportunity to look more clearly at the new government of the Republic of Serbia, ahead of the most important law passed by this assembly, the budget law. On several occasions during this discussion, the reasons why this budget rebalance represents what is not good for the overall development of the Republic of Serbia and what is not good at all, in politics at all, is that at the compromises of various political programmes and at one particularly populist campaign, which is led for parliamentary elections, such an important law is formed and such important decisions are made. This rebalancing is the fruit of the compromise of political parties that have formed the government. He is an expression of what some parties promised citizens during the election campaign. It is the result of pressure from individual members of the ruling coalition to meet their promises quickly, right now, when the government is to act in quite difficult political and economic circumstances. That's why this rebalanas proposal has so many shortages. These shortcomings have been cited on several occasions through discussion, but what is a fact and what stems from the Ministry Act, which defines many more authorities of the state administration, is increased public spending, so that a large, huge state apparatus, now extended to the greatest extent possible, would be satisfied and that these increased costs would be re-emerged on the burden of taxpayers, especially on the burden of the economy, which is now in a very difficult situation because of this economic crisis that we all face. So public spending is one of the most important features of this budget and it disqualifies, in every respect, the promises that this ruling coalition has given to citizens during the election campaign, especially after the exposure of Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, so that in all six points, this government has passed the test. None of the six points, highlighted in the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia, have been realised. This is important to mention when discussing budget rebalancing, because rebalancing is always a chance to look at government policies. It is indeed a great shame and I am again taking the opportunity to refer to the Honorable President of the National Assembly a request for Mr Mirko Cvetkovic to come to the National Assembly, to carry out an open dialogue, an open discussion of all the problems that have accumulated, and to which the National Assembly, MPs, citizens, have no answer from the representatives of the most important institution when it comes to executive authority, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because, by the Constitution, it determines politics and that policy is being implemented. We haven't been able to get an answer to all these problems that have now been opened, and these problems are the result of unfulfilled promises. We are witnessing these days that one of the promises, which affected that one political coalition was defined as forming a government with DS and a coalition for European Serbia, was not met, although one of the key agreements when the coalition was formed was, exactly, an increase in pensions. The citizens rightly respond and rightly call our parliamentary club and ask – why are the representatives of the ruling coalition acting this way, why this important promise, which may have affected the mood of voters at some point, is now completely disqualified, and we have heard it not only from the vice-president of the government, who was the bearer of that promise, but these days, and from the President himself of the Republic, although we do not know in what capacity he spoke about this issue, without having, as President of the Republic, any authority to speak about the policy established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That we are not talking about free actions which have been deceived by more than five million citizens, that we are not talking about the fact that this socially responsible government has not fulfilled any segment of its social policy and has just been promoted as a socially responsible government. Not to mention the decline in investment and, in general, the index on the Belgrade Stock Exchange. The most problematic one, the most controversial one, which is about to hit your head, is the decision to unilaterally apply the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We have entered into an entirely abnormal situation, like no European state, to make decisions to unilaterally apply an act that does not want to apply the other Contracting Party. I wonder why now the representatives of the ruling coalition do not make a unilateral decision that we are a member of the EU? What is the problem with saying – we are, in fact, a member of the UN, and when you will see us and will ever, we are not interested at all, as has been done with the unilateral application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, where will only our agriculture see what it means?- I'm sorry. Not to mention the fact that we have been assessed as a country where corruption has increased, that the government has not and does not take measures to fight corruption, and a number of other things, as well as the fact that we are the last government in the world to respond to this economic crisis and try to bring certain measures, which, I fear, will have no effect on the population. This is the government of unfulfilled promises. This is a government where no point in its exposé has been realized and it is indeed time for Mirko Cvetkovic, prime minister of this government, to come to the National Assembly. I don't know why the Prime Minister is avoiding showing up in front of the MPs. Every discussion is in the interest of the citizens. The DSS MPs, every step they have taken, every proposal they have submitted, and when it comes to raising savings roles, and what Mr Shami has proposed now, all these proposals are constructive, aimed at improving the lives of citizens in all segments of social life. I'm sure Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic would have had something to hear from DSS representatives and I'm convinced that in this open discussion he would appreciate our arguments, which would also lead to a change in the government's policy. What is also one of the characteristics of this budget rebalancing is the fact that, in addition to increasing public spending, there remains a very high suspicion of whether this budget rebalancing is in line with the law, i.e. very serious complaints that it is not in line with the provisions of the Budget System Law. We haven't heard a convincing answer from the Minister about these complaints. So we need to talk in the context of this rebalancing. It is made in the situation of internal pressures within the ruling coalition, decisions taken by institutions, specifically, Parliament, the most important decisions, and, at the same time, as the consequences of a populist, demagogue campaign, which was also attended by representatives from abroad, trying to hide public opinion and create a government that, as we have seen these days and persistently repeat, will be both lenient and flexible, not to say capitulant to the policy that the EU wants to promote in the area of KIM, i.e. This government was created to accept the Eulex mission. All that has been promised and everything that has been said in the campaign, there is only one goal, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia accepts the Eulex mission and that this decision, a big decision for this country, is made beyond the National Assembly, because we cannot explain differently the fact that we are not discussing the KIM Resolution anywhere, not even in the government itself, but in the cabinets of the highest executive authorities, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. It is a context and it is the atmosphere in which this rebalancing was brought – so that the government does not fall apart. That's the essence of the story. The government would fall apart if such a populist rebalancing, with such a degree of public spending, had not been brought in. This amendment refers to the funds foreseen to regulate flood issues in Vojvodina and the entire atmosphere in Vojvodina, which was created by the adoption of the Statute in the Regional Assembly, is something that creates an atmosphere that is not good in the Republic of Serbia. We now need to enter the process of adopting the Statute of the AP Vojvodina in the National Assembly. There is another very important act, and we will discuss here, which also concerns the funds that are defined under this budget and the framework, in general, the competence of the AP. It's a law that defines jurisdiction, entrusted jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, so-called. The 'omnibus' law, which was passed in 2001 in the National Assembly, and now, based on the Statute, it needs to be re-adopted. I remind the public and the MPs to pay attention that the competencies that we still need here are to define as competencies entrusted to the AP, already defined in the Statute adopted in the District Assembly. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be put before a final act to discuss something that has already been defined and that tomorrow, eventually, it is accused of obstructing the will of the political elite in Vojvodina, so that through amendments it can change the powers that are in the Statute. I have no dilemma, I have no doubt that the assembly majority here will adopt the law, but the question is asked – is it good to enter into a serious, important process within the state of Serbia and that the highest state body cannot declare it properly? Instead of a general norm in the Statute defined that jurisdiction would be resolved by a special law, they were numbered and we were put before the final act. That's how it's gonna be with Eulex. The same will be put before the final act. Someone's gonna make a deal, someone's gonna solve this problem, they're gonna come to the National Assembly, and we're gonna do it here, that's it. The ruling majority, adopt something like that. I just draw attention to the fact that the National Assembly should not allow such important issues, such as Eulex, such as the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, to make decisions here when they are already completed and agreed by the National Assembly, past the most important institutions, but rather that we, as in the previous period, in February, when the Assembly declared the last time about KIM, are again in the National Assembly making the most important state decisions, rather than simply serving the decisions that are being made elsewhere, past all institutions. I urge you to pay attention to this law that defines the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina and you will see to what extent we, as the National Assembly, will be put before the final act; nothing will be asked, and when we drop those powers that belong to us under the Constitution, because we believe that the Statute is unconstitutional, I fear that the less and less Republic of Serbia will be asked about what is happening through Sava and Danube. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6079	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6080	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, we heard Mr Palalic and indeed his exposure is sincere. We should base ourselves on something he spoke of in general, which is the problem of this society, and what will wait for us all when we adopt this rebalance, and then immediately move on to budget planning for 2009. Then why don't we tell the Serbian citizens openly that many accounts are related to the past, and also to this budget, and, I'm sure, they'll also be tied to the 2009 budget plan, so now they're coming in, and they're coming in new, for what they've done and for what they've done after 5. October?- I'm sorry. Many times, ladies and gentlemen, have been missed, many mistakes have been made, and this should be recognised, including those which, in the politics and life of a small people such as Serbia must not do, or should not be missed. Some moments must not be missed, and many moments have been missed in the last period, especially in the period since the five-octobar revolution. With our presentations, we from the SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj - Group want only to be within the limits of our options, and we have never boasted that we are the smartest, we contribute to your failure to understand, collectively regain consciousness, and no matter how soon they may be remedied, not that something, as you say, is being obstructed. I'm saying this for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, because I know the transmission is being listened to now, before "The Diaries." There is no doubt that Serbia is one disoriented society, we have to admit it, deeply divided and intertwined with itself and others. Is Serbia, we wonder, in some permanent, quiet, state of emergency, since "Sablje" and so on? Are we parted company? That is what many in Serbia and many outside Serbia are asking themselves. Do those who rule think they act as if they are citizens of Serbia, in fact, one tired and confused society, which is easy to manipulate? After all these events, including those that were behind this speaker, Tomislav Nikolic, who came to me as well as everyone from the SRS, as if he brought me here, I have to tell the citizens that he didn't bring me here. I was not brought here by Tomislav Nikolic, or Dragan Todorovic, or any of my colleagues, by Professor Vojislav Seselj. I've been with him since 10 March 1991, and I'll stay as long as there's an SRS. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is next. The people who brought this Serbia, small and distressed, into the state it is now in, is a team gathered around the Democratic Opposition of Serbia on October 5th. Let's think of 18 parties. Serbia's assembly is a legislative body that controls both the government and ministers, it sets them up and chooses them. The practice of putting the party president at the minister's post seems to be continuing today in this coalition. Then how will the MPs control the minister when he's their party boss? He'll be removed immediately from the seat of the MPs. This practice has been going on for eight years and that is the big problem of this society. They can't have the same people who brought the country into this crisis, their creation to pull it out, their new projects, their positive new projects; they can't even talk about it, they've given everything to fill their pockets. I know that someone's going to make this my exposure and analysis too dramatic, unfortunately, that's true. I'm sure everyone's recalculated in this budget, and in this rebalancing, and in the next budget. By all accounts, you felt and were convinced that it was easy to manipulate the people. You thought that a man had blacked out to pain, that the human around time would get used to darkness and eclipse. You thought the next thing you knew, all the lies would slip through the short memory of the people, that it would be like that of a frog, which we gradually and continuously warm up the vessel it's in, and eventually they won't notice it's cooked. I guess you thought that Serbian citizens would get used to being abnormally considered normal, that lies are constantly forgiven or that they start to view the emergency as a regular situation in this Serbia. The people today, after all the fraud of this coalition in the election campaign, are clearly more than ever. The evidence is also a lot of SMS messages sent to us by Serbian citizens, and those who are members of the SRS, and those who are not, to endure in this battle now that it is most difficult for us, when these traitors, who are not here now, have gone outside, have gone. Why didn't they stay here if they're right, but they do, one group comes, says and goes? I guess they've been thinking all day about what they're going to say, so they're pulling back, they're not able to handle the answers to us from the SRS. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, even those whose collective memory work is part of a job description, are not quite clear how we got here at all. When we arrive to execute such wars, including those in which we didn't even know we were participating, and the ruling coalition thus interprets it? How did we turn to the list of few cold-war losers from the ranks of the winners in two world wars overnight? How did we waste so much credit and historical capital of past generations? Do you think that through budget rebalances, or next year's budget, which we're going to do, maybe, in two weeks, we're going to fix all that? No, this budget is a compromise budget and pre-coalition agreement. I must say it out loud, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, and also for all of you who know it, but you won't go out, honestly, I mean the position, because you can't say it. How come we are declared aggressors even within our own, recognised international borders? It's all under this power. How did we manage to be suspected as criminals, even where we were witnessed by historical victims? A hundred questions – how. How do we end our statehood so much that we don't even know what our limits are, and until recently we didn't even know the symbols of our country? How did we become a country that has no comparable pandan all over the world? Where did the petoctobaric hope go, how in a semi-modern society do such a post-modern relativization of the concepts of truth, justice and morality? How did we get into the fact that we couldn't agree on whether murder -- murder -- is stealing -- theft, spying -- spying? Now we can't agree whether it's one car crash - a car crash, or if we're turning it into something else. Is it all up to the opposition or those in power? Clearly, the policy is tailored by the coalitions that are in power, with the help of those who impose it, whether money, whether blackmail, or other things. If everything depended on American imperialists and European reactionaries, much water would cross European rivers before Europeans free themselves from American tutorship and do the most natural thing, unite the entire European continent. However, so-called The globalisation that Americans have been cooking and expecting to realize all their imperialist fantasies has proved to be a much more complex and dangerous thing for world imperialists than anyone could have imagined. In order to understand the matter better, it should be known that globalisation is the primary economic factor, once again related to the budget, or the primary economic phenomenon. The essence of globalisation is beyond the need of capitalist corporations to expand and to extend their lives through the expansion of production, because the most important thing in the entire capitalist system is expansion and production and consumption. You have to agree with that. I'm sorry Mrs. Secretary doesn't listen to my exposure. The end of expansion is the end of capitalism. To avoid that unpleasant fate, American capitalists also went to Asia, in which they sought cheap labour and profit growth, but they also found what they did not expect, fast industrial and technological development of Asian countries, especially China, which is already the third industrial country in the world today, and which, if it continues to develop at the same pace, for several decades to be the world's largest economic power. It will be the beginning of the end of all, not just American imperialist fantasies. Of course, the World Economic Center will be in Asia, and the Americans will double their tails, bury their militaristic rags and go home. It's probably not going to be easy for them at home either, because they're waiting for the descendants of black slaves and those handfuls of Indians who survived the treatment they were subjected to by the ancestors of today's imperialists. They're waiting for them to collect their old bills. European capitalists can hope for even worse fate than their American relatives, because they too owe many peoples of the world. However, the European Union, i.e. Europe is the one that makes us conditional. They can benefit from the triumph of the Chinese people, forget their historical sins and learn to see each other friends and allies. So China, which has not experienced much good from Europeans, can one day take the European path of co-operation, and from this co-operation, very easily, a new European culture can be born, and "black" America, which at that time will be more black, can hope that free, united Europeans, for the first time in their history, will come to help and do something really good for their black relatives. As far as we Serbs are concerned, we need to and we need to torture our heads a little bit and cover all the talks about going to this famous Europe. We should tell our Europeans that they are very late with this Europe. If Broz wanted to go to Europe, it would still make sense, but no one's taking it seriously today. In fact, what the Americans and our owners want is to push us into NATO. That's the whole point of the story. They do not speak of it openly yet, but what they insist on very persistently and openly is to prevent any convergence of Serbia with their only friend and ally, with the Russian people. Those who want to go to Europe should be told that they are arriving there via Russia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6081	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with Article 10. Budgetary system law. Does anyone want a word? The word is Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted, on behalf of the SRS, an amendment to Article 5(1) that the amount of: "623,233,827,601" is replaced by "593,233,827,601", and this fits in the amendment, which I have also, on behalf of the SRS, in terms of reducing the budget deficit from 45 to 15 billion. However, the government is throwing itself away for billions, and what it should have purposely invested in certain projections and priorities, which should have been determined and given it various national strategies, is not interested, as seen through the budget deficit, which is so high that it should concern us. We will cover this huge budget deficit from privatisation revenues and loans. Everything that generations have created, we will sell and put into the budget, and by taking loans, we will assign descendants. We're gonna have a great time. With this government and this coalition government, we will have and we will live in abundance, and what generations have created for their descendants, we will now finely bury it. On the other hand, through credit loans, we've heard a lot of stories here about credit loans, we'll burden our descendants not to be able to get out of debt crisis and slavery. We need to get to know the public that on the Russian market, in terms of Serbia's economy, very positive shifts occur and that in the last few days we have concluded several agreements on building construction facilities. Three days ago, a construction company concluded a multimillion-dollar agreement, a construction company that will run buildings in the town of Kraknodar, Russia. In addition, a month ago, several of our construction firms formed a single corporation, which will work together to build Moscow. It's 80 million dollars. It's only very positive because the Russians created a prerequisite for us to come to their market. We can compete evenly, and in some situations, such as in Kraknodar, without a tender; the brothers went out to meet us and gave our builders the opportunity to create conditions for work and profit. This is the continuation of a very positive story coming from the east, from Russia. We must say here that we have concluded a free trade agreement with the Russian Federation. The Russian Federation has come to meet us, freed us, as well as Belarus, paying customs. These are all the benefits we need to take advantage of. But this government doesn't care. It is interested in the EU and the inability to live in these conditions, to cross over everything we could achieve on the Russian market. I have to mention here, I will purposely mention, precisely because I have made a parallel between Russia and the possibilities of business, work and engagement with the Russian Federation, which is what our obstacles are to the other side, i.e. the European Union. I will start from our very well-known letter to William Vimer, otherwise, vice-president of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, 2000, which addressed Gerhard Schrader, the then Chancellor of Germany, since he was at a meeting in Bratislava, where the organizers were Americans, members of the Republican Foreign Institute and representatives of the US Foreign Ministry, where they took very important and key positions concerning Serbia, the Serbian people and the Serbian state. Among other things, the meeting agreed "Serbia must be permanently excluded from European development due to the security of the US military presence (NATO), and Serbia can never become a full member of the EU". It is the conclusion of a meeting in Bratislava, which the vice-president of the Parliamentary Assembly, otherwise the German, brings to his Chancellor, Gerhard Schrader. Furthermore, the letter notes that the international recognition of Kosovo's independent state is necessary. It's 2000. Willy Wimmer's been passing attitudes out of the meeting. It was known in 2000, plans were created in Europe and America to recognise an independent state of Kosovo. You see, the current government is going towards the European Union, instead of economic, political, economic, economic, financial bonding to the Russian Federation, where we have opportunities, we have all the benefits, which no one has, only Belarus and the Republic of Serbia. We go to our enemies, worship and humbly pray, instead of working evenly with our brothers from the Russian Federation. In the proposal for this budget, the government is working with certain projections and objectives of macroeconomic policy, so it says that the main objectives are: dynamic economic growth and growth in investment activities, employment growth and living standards. At this point, no one in Europe can come out with such goals. Europe groaning, America groaning, world groaning, only Serbia generously, we go, dynamic economic development, employment, etc. Let's see how we hire it, see what the national employment strategy is. We have a National Employment Strategy, adopted by the Ministry of Labour in 2005, and concerns the period from 2005 to 2010, where they point out they will actively work on employment, poverty reduction, etc. and determine employment dynamics, i.e. decreases in the number of unemployed, and say 'In 2005, the unemployment rate will decrease, from 19.1 to 17% at the time. Next, in 2006, at 14.5%, in 2007 – 12%, 2008 – 9.5%, then in 2009, at 7% and 2010 – at 5%. They say it's optimal employment. Let's see what the statistics say for 2007. We have the following condition in 2007. According to this national employment strategy, we had to be at 9.5%. In 2007, we had 18.1%, according to the Republic Bureau of Statistics, and 28% according to the National Employment Service. They say 9.5% here. This is banging. The irresponsible government acts the way it behaves. Let's see what they say now, who took the employment policy and concrete measures from this national strategy. At the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, there is a Employment Service, which points out that it will do the following in 2008. He says, "We will deal actively with employment policy in 2008, we will encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which will be accompanied by financial support measures, job creation and a reduction of unemployment." The plan of the Ministry's Employment Service notes: ''1) will provide grants for employment, grants will be provided for enterprises that employ new labour, self-employment subsidies, and businesses that employ more than 50 jobs will be provided with subsidies from 80,000 to 160,000 dinars.' What did we get out of all this? The Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has singled out only 2.8 billion dinars from this great employment. They created preconditions for hiring 2,200 to 2,300 workers, they provided, according to the Start-Apa programme, a loan for 2000 and some entrepreneurs. It'll be all the employment that's planned for this government. Instead of privatising funds, from selling state and social capital, we turn into development, improving economy, agriculture, employment, we transfer it to the budget, we finance projects of the Government that have failed projects, and they have no development character in themselves, and especially not dynamic development. This ministry service, in its plan, envisioned the employment of 70,000 workers. We've seen, only 2,000, and we'll hire some workers. According to the draft budget, the proponent, or government, this irresponsible, socially irresponsible government, recognises itself that the number of employees will decrease by 0.1%. The Government's 2008 Budget and Economic and Fiscal Policy Memorandum, with projections for 2009 and 2010, reads: "A growth in employment of 0.7% in 2008, of 1.2% in 2009, of 1.5% in 2010. The projection envisions a reduction in unemployment, calculated by international standards, from 21.6 in 2006, to 19.6% at the end of 2006." Now you've seen data that no one can connect. What's the point? No employment, no employment program. We throw away where we can't throw away, use budgets without purpose. Privatisation funds, which we would need to transfer to development programs, non-intentional spending, throw away, and representatives of the SRS have openly said where to throw and where to spend instead of investing in development. There is no dynamic economic development of employment, and that must be clear to us. This government will leave, and they'll have to leave because it doesn't run a socially responsible policy. She says to herself that she is socially responsible, the pro-European government, and she has no plan, no programme, and, on the other hand, she violates everything she brought herself. She has brought a National Employment Strategy, which she does not respect, the 2008 Prime Minister's Memorandum, which says she will employ 0.7%. We can see that this will not be, that the number of employees will be reduced, that is, the number of unemployed will increase. This country with this government has no perspective. You have to tell the people here openly – get on with it as you know it and know it, we can't let you do it. What we wrote here, it's not worth it, tomorrow we'll come up with new data, which will be different again from all of these here. I told three sources what you were planning and what was projected...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6083	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6084	... and what was officially brought and none of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6085	Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then you, Mr. Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6086	All right, this is gonna be mine for a while. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you don't want to get angry, I think this is an interesting thing, so maybe an article. 225 and 226. We have now received some information that cattle markets are closing in the King, which can cause great revolt, above all, peasants and other citizens. Can anyone answer what this is about? Why are you, Hope, holding your head? What? In black jeeps, some unidentified guys come and close it there. You probably know something. If it's an infection, I guess we should let the public know. If it's anything else, you should. Why are you squirming about these questions? If someone called, from the people who are there, from the King, and they say what the problem is, well, I guess this is the place to ask that question. If it's a disease, alarm immediately, so people get out of the way, in the end. Don't be silly. I didn't go out for a pay phone to tell Mr. Milivojevic to say hello to Ranka Radonjic and buy her a carnation to look like Mira Markovic, but I came out to ask a very specific question about the cattle market. If you're angry, here, I won't say anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6087	Mr. Obradovic, about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6088	Thank you. I'm reporting for the amendment, since we've finally moved on to Article 5. Budget amending laws, i.e. rebalancing. Now we're talking about those specific divisions. There is a change in the way this budget is conceived. That's got to be commendable. That's the difference between the previous part. In an explanation, in the part where it's explained how the budget was made, this budget is divided into two parts. One is a line, and the other is a program piece. It seems to me, although it does not say in the explanation that the idea was quite clear, that all those programmes that can represent some concrete programmes, which give concrete results, are in that programme section of the budget. It is clear that for each part of the programme part of the budget there should be a complete analysis of all the positive effects that can be clearly defined and which can be clearly measurable. For example, if the goal is to reduce regional differences, then the effect of these measures can be clearly measured after some time. If it is a desire to achieve employment, it can also be measured by closely monitoring the implementation of these projects. We pointed out in the previous year, at a time when we were part of the ruling majority, that the two major shortcomings that our government has – the part that involves budgetary control and the part that implies the effects, i.e. an analysis of each investment. Practically, any investment and any new investment, in order to be able to be monitored by an appropriate programme, must have measurable effects and then we can see what is achieved afterwards. Unfortunately, we don't have that yet. Those were objections when we were part of the ruling majority. It seems to me that these two functions are still pretty weak in the Ministry of Finance and in the government today. The state audit institution could fix that, but unfortunately, it still doesn't work at full capacity. What's the only problem here? We support this programme part of the budget, however, the programme part of the budget consists of the Ministry of Trade and Services, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of State Administration and the Ministry of Faith. Is there any ministry that has a real problem on the ground? That's a substantial amount of funding, 119 billion. However, the figure can be fooled, because of that, the Ministry of Education goes more than 90%, and the Minister of Education has told us that most of these funds are fixed for wages, so there are actually no investments. Of those 106 billion, it seems to me that he said, 95% or 96% are employees' salaries. The programming part of the budget makes up only a dozen billion budgets, which is not some number. The linear part of the budget is all those ministries that have real projects on the ground. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management – 24-25 billion, Ministry of Economy and Regional Development – 14 billion, Ministry of Infrastructure, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, and then it is not clear why it was done. If the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is not part of the programme part of the budget, or the Ministry of Infrastructure, then the question is whether there should be any division into those two parts and that initial idea, which, in any case, is not realised for the praise of such a division. It's not clear what the idea of dividing into these two parts of the budget was at all. I'm not going to talk about personal solutions, or the belongings of certain parties, I say, entering an eye fairly vague division. If the Ministry of Faith is a software part of the budget, then I don't understand that initial idea at all, which is certainly good and commendable. I sincerely hope we get the budget tomorrow, so we'll talk about it within the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-30-0.u6089	I'm closing the debate. I suppose no one in this three-minute period will be able to declare Mr. Martinovic's amendment. We'll continue work tomorrow, 10:00. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 138 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 100 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the sittings to be attended by Mr. Janko Guzian, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs. Ruzica Stojiljkovic, assistant director of the Treasury Administration. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2008. THE YEAR AND AMENDMENTS OF THE FINANCIAL PLANS FOR 2008 The year of the Republic Fund for Pension and Invalid Security, National Employment Service and the Republic Health Security Office (SPECIFIC) before we move to the debate on the amendment, Mr Velimir Ilic reported to the Rules of Procedure.
