ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3820	Thank you, Chairman. I'm reporting under Article 226 because I'd like to refer the question to the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister through you. These days we have witnessed that the government of the Republic of Serbia has taken certain measures against Montenegro and Macedonia following their recognition of Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. The concrete measure we all saw was to banish the ambassadors of Montenegro and Macedonia from Serbia. My question is why is it done. The explanations we've heard in the media are certainly not enough, and what we've heard even sounds offensive. How it is possible to distinguish between the following two situations: therefore, ambassadors are returning to countries that have recognised an independent Kosovo, and among other things (to miss EU countries, since we have already discussed it), it is Albania, Croatia and so on. and now suddenly, when Macedonia and Montenegro recognise an independent Kosovo, their ambassadors from Belgrade are being expelled, which in no case has been applied to other countries that have recognised independent Kosovo. If there's any elemental logic I'd like someone to explain it to me, but I'd like it not to be explained to me through the media, but to have the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister attend the session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, so here... Since Foreign Affairs Committee President Dragoljub Micunovic is present, I ask him to schedule a session of the Committee and invite the prime minister and foreign minister to attend, as we would very much like to hear what is a rational explanation for it. So, in the means of informing, we heard the following; I think I heard it from Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, who told us that it was because these other countries recognised independent Kosovo before the UN General Assembly's decision, and that this measure was applied against these countries because they recognised independent Kosovo after that decision. What difference does it make and how important it is, how convincing that argument remains for everyone to assess. I think that argument is insufficient, that it's inconclusive and that it's even offensive. Does this mean that any next country that recognises independent Kosovo will be given the same measure? Does this mean that any next state that recognises independent Kosovo will "drink" from the Government of the Republic of Serbia the measure of banishing ambassadors from Belgrade? Or does this mean that these two countries that are listed, Macedonia and Montenegro, are the least damage to life, so when they could not respond adequately to other countries, and the only adequate and legal way is to sue the International Court of Justice in The Hague against states that have recognised an independent Kosovo, then for marketing reasons, certain measures are applied to countries for which the Government of the Republic of Serbia estimates that it cannot have any harm from that? That's a shame. I ask you most nicely that the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister arrive at the National Assembly as soon as possible for a session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, because I think it's the form in which it should be done... (President: Time is 3 minutes and 30 seconds. Thank you, I'm finishing up... And there to discuss this, well, the whole situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3821	On the basis of a number of members and members of the Committee, as regards the suggestion made by the National Assembly, you have business opportunities for the National Assembly Committee to convene any and so on the basis of the request of a number of members and members of the Committee. Also, as a parliamentary group, you have a business opportunity to make a request to hold a session of the National Assembly, which would be called by the Government and on which you would discuss the topics you mentioned at the pay phone in pointing out the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word came from Jovan Palalic, noting the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3822	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in agreement with Article 226. I would like to refer a question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Mirk Cvetkovic – when he will respond to the request of representatives of the assembly of the Kosovo Municipality and Metohija to take them in together to discuss issues and policies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. The top representatives of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija have repeatedly referred the request to the Prime Minister as the most responsible for policy-making in this country, especially in a situation where the government's views on Eulex and on the overall policy towards Kosovo and Metohija remain unclear in the public? Representatives of the Community Assembly have repeatedly made such a request, and to this day they have not received an answer. They received an informal response that they would be accepted by the minister for Kosovo and Metohija. I again call on the debate to be opened in this assembly and to call on Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic to come and answer a number of issues that remained unclear in the public and most of all on politics towards Kosovo and Metohija. Here, we have seen these days how confusing this policy is and how in public it creates very big misunderstandings. On the one hand, ambassadors return to all countries that have recognised the state's independence, including Albania, and at the same time the ambassadors of other countries who have recognised the false state are being expelled. What kind of politics is that, and where does it lead? Simply, the public also asks our MP group and our MPs daily whether this government has a policy towards Kosovo and Metohija; whether this government wants to truly fight for the interests of the Serbian state in the area of our southern province, or whether this is simply a policy that leads to complete capitulation. These people are the most responsible representatives of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, so I ask the Prime Minister to receive them urgently, to get answers from them and, of course, to show them how the state institutions will function in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. We have serious assurances that the institutions of the Serbian state do not function there, but that they are preparing to take over the Eulex in fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3823	National MP, every member of parliament has the right to make a request to convene a session at which the Government, according to the Rules of Procedure, will answer exclusively the questions of the MPs, which you speak of and all others, so I suggest you take advantage of this business opportunity. The word is from Ambassador Vladan Batic, and after that, MP Tomislav Nikolic - pointing out the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3824	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is a hundred days of government. The order would be for the Prime Minister to be here today in the Assembly to inform the MPs and citizens of Serbia what the government has done. I think she fell on a mission; except for a few honorable exceptions, no major shifts. We have not come close to Europe and European integration, the economy is in agony, crime and corruption, and human rights are at the lowest level. What's that level? I ask the President of the National Assembly to inform the prosecution about the words spoken for this pay phone and in this building, which are hate speech, which are a request to establish some revolutionary justice, which are fascist calls. I'm asking the D.A. to be notified of this. Furthermore, in line with the provisions of Articles 225 and 226, I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior what does it do to prevent daily hepening on the streets of Belgrade in honor of the Hague indictees? What makes you arrest the chief Hague indictee? I see his main problem is the picture of Milan Nedic, who died 60 years ago, in the government building. And what does it do to prevent modern fascists, war criminals and others? Furthermore, it would be good if the foreign minister, who is one of the few who passed the exam, had really put forth an enormous effort and thanks to him and President Tadic we won that victory at the General Assembly... But it should also come and explain to the peoples and citizens of Serbia what the advisory opinion means, whether it will, assuming it is positive, mean the return of Serbia's sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija, because many uninformed people, even many MPs, expect it. A question for the Minister of Energy: will the South Stream pipeline go through Serbia at all? What's his capacity going to be? If it's going to pass, if it's going to be a freeway, or something else, when the construction starts, because from Russian sources we see - from 2015 to 2024. So, let us know why the gas went up 50%. So call on the prime minister and ministers to report today when a hundred days of the government's existence are completed both to the MPs and to the citizens of Serbia. And another finance minister needs to explain to us where the seven billion foreign exchange reserves of this country are. We've heard where the three billion are not full, and what about the other seven and how many of that amount are in Euroaxis Bank in Moscow, or the tycoon here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3825	National MP, a session at which the government would answer the questions of MPs, has been regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and may be scheduled at the request of the parliamentary group. All parliamentary groups under this right are fully equal. As soon as such a request reaches the President of the Assembly, I'm sure the session will be scheduled. The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. After him is the word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the parliamentary group "Forward, Serbia", a very advanced parliamentary group, on Thursday, I warned the government that there was recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's independence by the government of Montenegro, warned of possible consequences and asked for a very careful consideration of the situation in which we will find ourselves, that it has too much in mind the interests of Serbia, but also the interests of the Serbs living in Montenegro, as a queen who must take care of them. That's when I told the president of the National Assembly that we were able to allow the Assembly to operate on that agenda. Meanwhile, the government has made several moves, not only strange but very harmful to the state of Serbia and even more harmful to the Serbs in Montenegro. The government has come to cancel flights to Podgorica. JAT cancels flights to Podgorica. The government interrupts all relations with Montenegro. Are we in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in agreement with these measures? Should Serbia punish citizens of Montenegro, including those who are Serbs, or should the Mil Djukanovic regime be punished? Is Mil Djukanovic's regime being punished by preventing the flow of people, capital, goods? Did Serbia finally find a small state to deal with, and that is the only Serbian state? Is there any other way for Serbia-Montenegro to resolve their relations and is the government ready here, in this National Assembly, where its policy is approved or not approved, to present its plan on what relations will be with Montenegro in two months, five, a year? Is it our struggle to give up recognition exclusively through the self-sacrifice of Serbs living in Montenegro and even those leading Serbs without whom Serbs will remain completely decapitated? I can't believe it's been so many days that nobody shows up here to tell us what the next moves are. We sent the ambassador away. We did a big job. Maybe she took the same plane that our ambassadors returned to countries that had previously recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence, so we withdrew the ambassadors from there. We are strong now, we are great; Macedonia and Montenegro - we will step on it. Is that foreign policy? Is that a way to protect Serbia's interests? Is this a way to protect the interests of Kosovo and Metohija? Is that a way to protect Serbs in Montenegro? Those who showed their protest last night will be hit by the regime in Montenegro. Will we be able to help them? What can we do to help them in the state with which we broke up diplomatic relations? It's the easiest thing to do right now... And I see that Madam President has fled abroad, and it is much more important for her to spend abroad than it is for her to hold a session of the National Assembly. It is easiest to say – each parliamentary group has the right to a parliamentary question, to question the government. If the government doesn't see that the public is upset, if the government doesn't see that the public reacts sharply to some of its moves and that under the company of patriotism you can't hide moves that are harmful to Serbia, then the government doesn't deserve to rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3827	And I can only refer you, MP, to Article 199, which says in the first position that parliamentary questions are asked, as a rule, as the National Assembly ends work on all points of the agenda. In addition, without a search, the National Assembly may set a second time for asking parliamentary questions. The second view here is the subject of pointing out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, namely the requirement and the proposal that the Government or individual ministers in the National Assembly answer the questions of MPs, and the second position of Article 199 reads: "The President of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the parliamentary group, at least once a month, determines the day when individual ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia will answer parliamentary questions on some topic", which is the right equal to all parliamentary groups. The word is a folk letter from the Prophet of Radet, pointing out the violation of the Rules of Procedure. After that, the Messenger of the people Velija Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3828	I am neither a messenger nor a Mr. Ilic - Velija Ilic, Mrs. Comić. I remind you of Article 27's injury. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You are still allowing those who do not have the right to speak from this place to appear and say, 20 or 15 days, on behalf of something they have called the "Forward, Serbia" parliamentary group. Then they informed the National Assembly, and the president of the Assembly informed us about it, that this group of citizens is not "Forward, Serbia" but something -- the SNS -- I don't know what that means. Today we hear again that there is talk here on behalf of a group called "Go, Serbia". In any case, I remind you of Rule 135 of our Rules of Procedure, which says that the right to propose laws, other regulations and general acts has a government, every MP, Parliament of the AP or at least 15,000 voters. Warn Nikolic's voter, let him collect 15,000 signatures, and let him propose with that 15,000 to the National Assembly whatever comes to mind. This is where the debate began on very serious issues and, of course, takes several days, but you are trying, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia through the media these days, to distract the citizens of Serbia and the National Assembly from what is the real problem, which is that you did not allow the National Assembly to discuss the proposal for a resolution of 108 MPs on Kosovo and Metohija. We're reading today how the Eulex mission is well deployed, how it won't be able to finish it by autumn, but by spring it will be safe. When it comes to such decisions of the European Union, the Member States of the European Union, we do not have the position of the National Assembly on this. That's what the MPs are supposed to discuss. Of course, we should take care and discuss how the government behaves when it comes to the recognition of Kosovo by Montenegro and Macedonia and of course that the government must not make any move that would in any way endanger the people of Montenegro and the people of Serbia. We know a long time ago, and it's no secret what a traitor regime is in Montenegro. For us, it is no surprise that the traitor regime in Montenegro did what it did, but the government in Serbia, which is not much better, must make sure that it acts the same way with every country that has recognised Kosovo. Why do you take solan's arms open, and he's the creator of everything that's going on in Serbia's territory? You take him with open arms, and for example, you send Anku Vojvodic out of Serbia. You should escort her, all the ambassadors of all the countries that have recognised Kosovo and Metohija should leave with them, we should only establish consular representations and thus maintain bilateral relations, but we cannot be heroes and heroes only when it comes to countries that we estimate are weaker than we are, and when it comes to England, America, Germany, all of those major states, you are still in them on cannabis, you continue to receive orders from them, and you continue to act as they tell you. Of course, that's what this constituent Nikolic is doing with you, who just spoke here unauthorizedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3829	National MPs, you have injured Article 104 on respect, which now makes up Natasa Jovanovic's MP. So, safeguarding the dignity of the National Assembly is an obligation for all of us and addressing with respect is a common obligation. So you have injured members of the House that refer to other MPs. National MP Tomislav Nikolic has all the rights, responsibilities and obligations arising from the status of the MP and is the task of every chairman to protect him and every other person from any attempt to belittle him, for which there is no basis. I don't see that there have been any injuries to the 27th member you called on, but I thank you for warning me that I made a nickname to Ambassador Velimir Ilic. Excuse me. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Milan Dimitrijevic, the pointing out of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3830	Dear People's MPs, we are all upset these days, and we have many reasons to be upset in Serbia. This disgrace with Montenegro and what is happening, the media are flooded with articles about it, commenting in various ways, and there are at least official comments from the government. No serious strategy. Exorcise the ambassador, it's the easiest, that scenario we've seen; then bring it back to no one. It's some scenario that doesn't mean anything to Serbia. We expected a serious government strategy after this decision by Montenegro and Macedonia, and that was not the case. Of course, there are a number of problems we are having, but I am extremely upset and the citizens of Serbia are upset that, without any basis, they will collect gas for 60% of citizens in Serbia. It is inexplicable, I ask, as a People's MP, that the government reconsider that decision once again. Or, to form a survey committee here, to see if there are valid reasons, if the price to the world market hasn't increased, for such large purchases -- 38% for the economy, and 60% for the citizens, for someone to explain it. It's a blow to both citizens and to an economy that for a long, long time we won't be able to overcome. Pensions are increasing, something small, and these gatherings are completely destroying people who are heating up on gas. We have big problems these days. We ran a long-term campaign to move on to environmental fuel -- gas; we fought to put people in charge, to do gas pipelines, to take credits, to reduce, as far as possible, electricity consumption, and now suddenly we have such a blow that it's simply inexplicable. I would ask you to seriously consider this issue, if the Minister of Energy, the Prime Minister, would like to explain to us what this is all about. If they can't, let's set up a survey board and review this. The 60-percent pick-up can't be explained today. I can't understand that someone had the courage to suddenly raise the price of gas by 60% for the citizens. It's not even in banana states. Today, when a hundred days of government existence and work ends, this is a "nice gift" for Serbian citizens. I don't know how we're gonna get past that. And from this government, it's a lot. So I would ask you to take this problem seriously, because the people are in debt, and he was counting on these loans to pay for the savings in the fuel. Now we're going to have one such impact on electrical energy that it's just going to be impossible to resuscitate. Take the privates who went to the dryers of various gas productions, what they had with 38% of the purchases. Once again, I would ask that we take this very seriously and that as one serious parliament we are looking for an explanation. NIS has no losses, these days we see NIS sponsoring both professional clubs and others, but this is a blow to the pockets of the most vulnerable in Serbia. Take this seriously. I ask once again to ask the government to reconsider this decision and to return the price to the old one.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3831	National MP, survey committees are formed by the National Assembly under Article. 74, 75 and 76, and on a proposal from MPs from parliamentary groups. From the ranks of MPs, a polling committee is formed at a session of the National Assembly and that is the right that enables us, all of us, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Board of Auditors shall not be formed by a request for an infringement of the Rules of Procedure. When it comes to all the other topics that you have mentioned and which are interested in your parliamentary group, I suppose most MPs, on the basis of Article 199(2), each parliamentary group has the right to refer a request for a session at which the entire government or individual ministers will answer the questions of MPs. The word has been given by the People's MP Milan Dimitrijevic, followed by the MP Milos Aligrudić, the saying of the injury of the Rules of Procedure, and the folk letter Elena Bozic-Talijan.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3832	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Article 226. The question I will ask is about the banishment of the ambassadors of the Republic of Montenegro and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. I have Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic's exposé in my hand. In the fifth part of his exposé, Mr Cvetkovic said that the government, in co-operation with other state bodies, will take all legal and diplomatic measures to preserve Kosovo and Metohija in the form of the Republic of Serbia. So one of these measures is to banish the ambassadors of certain countries who have recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. That's the problem. There are ambassadors who speak publicly on our country's territory about Kosovo's independence, and the government is not making a move. The government banishes the ambassadors of those countries that it senses are helpless and cannot react adequately. How are at one point both legal and diplomatic measures for some countries, and for other countries they are not? That's the question the government has to answer. As a party we will use our right to seek a cabinet session, that Mr. Foreign Minister and other ministers answer these questions that we will ask. Those are serious questions. We are also looking for serious answers regarding the response of officials from other countries. Why wasn't the German ambassador expelled? Why wasn't the Ambassador of France expelled, U.S.A.? Why were only the ambassadors of Montenegro and Macedonia expelled? Give us an answer to those questions. You probably can't, so we're gonna ask the government to come here and answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3833	The observations of the MP shall be reminded of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly – if a session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is to be held, then a number of MPs shall be convened by that committee with the proposed agenda and the foreign minister shall be present on that committee. The word has been given by MP Milos Aligrudic, followed by national emissary Elena Christmas-Talian, pointing out the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3834	Thank you. I point out the breach of Article 104. I'll tell you what it consists of, only before I have to tell you that, despite your explanations after the announcement of the MPs to highlight the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I still have to admit that by repeating the same explanation, you are still leading to a certain goal. We accept that we are looking for a session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in this regard, in my view, for excessive and incomprehensible decisions by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to banish the ambassadors of Montenegro and Macedonia in this situation, and for everything else that has not been applied, and perhaps could have been applied in other cases. In addition, we will certainly listen to you and the DSS parliamentary group will request a session of the National Assembly at which we would like to hear from the prime minister, foreign minister and other members of the government, to answer these and many other questions. We'll do it anyway. Thank you for that suggestion. The infringement of Article 104 shall consist of the following. It is bad if you use the chair to point to the MPs for the violation of Article 104 and to do the same yourself. I don't think it's in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, that ye call the messengers of the people by nicknames. When you do that, you do it elsewhere, but it's not good to do it with the position of chairman. That's my little remark to you. I hope you will respect her, as I have appreciated these explanations of yours, which were longer than the very emphasis on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3835	People's MP, you probably weren't in the O.R. I thanked the People's Parliament's suggestion to Veriqa Radeti and apologized to MP Velimir Ilic for using the nickname in address and invitation to take the word and, after applying for an injury to the Rules of Procedure. As for reminding all of us of the Rules of Procedure, they are equally prescribed for all of us, and for all MPs' groups, and it is the will of the parliamentary group whether they will benefit, or not, from the right of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a national emissary Elena Christmas-Talian, a statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3836	Articles 225 and 226. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question whether the state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija has changed, given that the situation on the ground points to this, especially if we bear in mind the promise of Minister Jeremic, given to US Ambassador Manter and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, that Belgrade will support the deployment of Eulex in Kosovo and Metohija. Also, we ask Boris Tadic and Minister Jeremic to explain to us where this strategy started in the General Assembly by adopting the Resolution. What are the essential effects of this strategy, given that it is only an advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice which is not binding, and neither the body nor the organisation seeking that opinion has the obligation to respect the International Court's opinion? It is also not known whether this opinion that will be given will be precise or unarranged, so everyone will be able to interpret it in accordance with their interests. It should be borne in mind that as long as we wait for that advisory opinion, it can take a very long period, from eight months to three years. All legal experts warn that the advisory opinion, whatever it is, will not affect the revision of the decision of those countries that have already recognised Kosovo's independence, and will not allow new negotiations. Accordingly, the strategy launched in the General Assembly does not appear to be a strategy for the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, but rather a strategy for pushing under the carpet of this issue, for the silent recognition of the Eulex mission, leading to recognition of Kosovo's independence. We therefore demand an urgent debate on the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3837	National MPs, position 2 of Article 199; your parliamentary group, as well as any other group, shall have the right to request the president of the National Assembly to convene a session at which both the Government and individual ministers will be asked and to take part in the debate on issues of interest to you. To discuss the resolution of the National Assembly, according to the members of the Rules of Procedure, which define how to put acts on the agenda, you have the right to submit this document to the National Assembly. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic, saying the injuries of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3838	Dear fellow Members of the People, on behalf of all of you, I went out for this pay phone by advertising Article 104, because one individual who came out for this pay phone, speaking to the chairman, said that some MPs here should be bound. I know the dogs bond, the sheep bond, the cattle groan, but I think the best thing to say for the MPs is that they're dying, if they don't already take the seriousness of the situation themselves and don't listen to the speaker. So they can be warned about something like that. What is more important than this is a statement that Montenegro is the only remaining Serbian state. It's something that's absolutely unacceptable to the SRS. Until all of us here are aware of the facts, and until we mention the Republic of Serbia as a occupied Serbian state, Republika Srpska, which slowly drowns in the Federation of BiH, we will have these things happening to us, as they do to Montenegro. The ruling majority, President Tadic and Prime Minister, who is only a front for Boris Tadic's politics, should be asked – why are the same measures being implemented towards Montenegro not also being implemented towards Brussels? Why not to France, why not to the UK? We don't have direct flights with the United States, but with Europe we can. What difference does that make between Montenegro and all other countries? It hurts us, that our brothers, well, we didn't do anything to keep all this from happening. What has our diplomacy done since 2000 so far? Boris Tadic welcomed the referendum, which we know was implemented when Montenegro went its own way. What the Serbs in Montenegro are now realizing is that it cannot survive within these borders as a separate state, that part of it will become a Cypriot state. As the Dukes now cannot understand that their statutes that prepare do not lead to Vojvodina getting some special elements of statehood so that, in a few years' time, the same thing that Montenegro has asked for, because Vojvodina simply cannot survive as a separate entity, and within the Serbian state, autonomy can only exist within the state of Serbia. So, the unseriousness that we are showing here benefits the Serbian government and leads foreign policy as it wishes. The least we could expect at this point is that the government is consulting parliament on the measures it should take not only towards Montenegro, Macedonia, but also towards all other countries. But she absolutely does not pay attention to the opinion of MPs in the National Assembly, which means the people, and she is leading some of her policies dictated by her abroad. I think the best of those who ask these questions, and they belong to the parliamentary majority, or those who meet with Boris Tadic on a wonderful day-to-day... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... They should ask the English and American ambassador what it is they have to do further, because it's obvious that everything in this country is done absolutely according to their dictatorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3839	For your intervention, Article 199(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly; if any parliamentary group considers that, under Rule 199, a session is scheduled to be held at which the Government or individual ministers will answer questions from all areas of interest (that is, the obligation of the Government), then such a request would have to be reached by the President of the National Assembly. On the occasion of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the word of the People's Messenger is Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3840	Dear fellow MPs, I will quote Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, who said he "must have a member in the Rules of Procedure to whom this applies". It is truly astounding how diverse this House has about the priorities that the state needs to deal with. However, I'd like to draw your attention to something. On the one hand, gas collection of 60% affected the people of Vojvodina to the greatest extent possible, as 90% of household gas users are located on the territory of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. Speaking of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, an esteemed colleague mentioned that at this point, the Statute of the Vojvodina is being adopted, which will give Vojvodina elements of statehood. I must draw attention to you that this is notorious untruth for the simple reason that this statute is absolutely in accordance with the Constitution, which you voted for and which, like the Serbian Radical Party, you have brought in the previous term. So don't feel sorry for what you did back then. A team before the biggest problem of the same statute is that it is in accordance with the constitution, since the constitution is probably the worst Serbia has experienced in the past 150 years and possibly longer. So when we look at all of this, when we look at what this really is about, we see that the main problem is that we don't have government representatives here, which Parliament is reduced to a voting machine, which all decisions are made in executive power, not in this high house. I think it is an unacceptable insult to the citizens of Serbia and that it will not get far. We are not ready to lend anyone's actions, especially when they come down to cheap political effects, such as the exorcision of the only state in which Serbian citizens can go only with a ID card. If we treat our friends that way, our enemy will not run out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3841	People's MP, if there's got to be a member who's hurt, then there's got to be some explanation that he's not hurt. Please move on to the session. So we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs Dragan Todorovic and Nenada Canka to give their debates, which are very lively and obviously interesting both to each other and to other MPs, to continue in another room. MP Dragan Shormaz... You'll wait for us to determine the quorum. Since the number of MPs who have called is such that we already need to formally begin the session, you will get the word, it is no problem at all. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 130 MPs attend the session. I ask the service of the National Assembly to be in the stenogram all the speeches of the MPs who have run since the word was first declared for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Milos Aligrudić. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall now, at 10.50 hours, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 75 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least one third of the MPs are not present, which is why, in accordance with Article 86(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'll postpone the session by one hour. We'll continue at 11 o'clock and 55 minutes. Thank you. [[After break – 11.55]] In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly is in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the session to be attended by Mr Sasa Jankovic, the Citizens' Protector. National MP Dragan Shormaz utters a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3843	Madam Chairman, I really point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and this is Article 86, paragraphs 1 and 2. I don't have to quote them, you know it's about finding the quorum at the beginning of work. I don't want to take time away from this respectable home, but I want to say that you definitely broke the Rules of Procedure today. You first started the work without establishing the necessary quorum of only 84 MPs. That's one-third present. I remind you that the ruling majority has 128 MPs, plus one that is found here and there. Then make sure you're 84 in the O.R., at least so much appreciated this home. On the other hand, Mr President, you have given a word to a few speakers, MPs, without establishing a quorum and not having started the work officially. Among them were MPs and authorities and opposition. Interestingly, both were criticising the executive power, whether it was the government or the opposition. Instead of starting at the office at 10:00 a.m., then moving from one hour, if it wasn't 84, at 11:00 p.m., not 12:00 p.m. Nevertheless, the DSS will participate in the work, although today's work day is completely out of business. The Rules of Procedure and the way things are done have been completely violated. We do not want to participate in your incompetence and in obstructing Parliament's work and you are unable to lead it in a way that would allow Parliament's work to be effective.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3844	You probably weren't in the O.R. when I asked for the service to enter into a stenogram of all the discussions of speakers who sought and received a word after saying the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. The word was first given to MP Milos Aligrudic, as he claimed that the breach of the Rules of Procedure was such an important matter that it must be spoken immediately because it could affect the procedure. According to the document between 10.05 and how much I could track the electronic voting system, 10.35 hours, there were 84 MPs in the hall, although I do not share MPs with the ruling majority and opposition, because all of us, under Article 222, are obliged to register upon entry into the hall. So the quorum was and it was good that there were enough MPs to listen to all the violations of the Rules of Procedure that were made. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Personality Data (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the Citizens' and People's MPs: together Milica Vojić-Marković, Milica Radović, Miroslav Petkovic and Arsen Đurić, Aleksandar Martinović, Mirko Munjic, Sreto Perić, Vladan Jeremic, Vjerica Radeta, Vladan Batić, Judita Popović and Aleksandra Janković, as well as amendments to the Committee on Justice and Administration. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. You also received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Arsen Đuric, written in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 45. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Ombudsman submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Arsen Djuric submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Marković, and a national MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3845	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the DSS Group has tabled an amendment to Article 1(2). I will read as it says in the bill: "Protection of personality data is provided to every natural person, regardless of nationality and residence, race, sex, language, religion, political and other confidence, nationality, social origin, property, birth, education and social status or other personal characteristics". We believe it is very important to add "years of life" here immediately after the word "raise" and to remain as it is in the bill. Why is it important to add that? The bill gives a very broad definition that can, if legally observed, include this particular set that we have apostrophe as very important and therefore singled out. Why did we insist on singleing this out: "years of life"? So underage persons, as the law recognizes them, are a very sensitive category of citizens. What happens most in practice is that, under that broad definition, an apostrophysed group is simply left out and then the rights and freedoms of citizens - minors are most abused, in all countries, so regardless of the country's development, especially in transition countries. I can cite thousands of examples of how it breaks when it comes to minors, or children, in Serbia. People fully understand what I'm talking about and why it's important to fully apostrophe this category and get special rights. What surprised me very much is that in the reports that we received from the Committee, I saw that the amendment with the same part concerning the years of life, which was submitted by the Citizens' Protector, was accepted by the Government, and when such an amendment was proposed by the opposition MPs, then it was not accepted. It's very strange, and I don't think there's any reason for that kind of viewing, because I think it's in everyone's best interest for the law to be quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3846	The word has a folk MP, Milica Radovic, followed by a folk MP, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3847	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment has been tabled by a group of DSS MPs, because we feel it is necessary that the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data in a more specific way deals with data on minors, as one particularly endangered category when we speak in terms of this law. Daily information shows and printed media are very common with abuse of minors, which is actually done by publishing the names of minors or unverified information and assessments. We can rarely find pictures of throwing babies in the living room, say, a container or other very shocking information and data. So a few days ago, we had the opportunity to read in a daily newspaper about the alleged abuse of a two - month - old baby, which later turned out to have been performed, in fact, by unprofessional medical intervention. This is exactly why we have submitted this amendment and why we believe that the law needs in a more precise and specific way to deal with this problem when it comes to minors. On this occasion, I will not talk about the abuse of data on minors via the Internet, where very often unauthorized photos of minors who later rarely serve for pornographic purposes are published. I hope the minister in charge of this bill understands the reasons why this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3848	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Does anyone else appear in the discussion of the details of the amendment to Article 1?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3849	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendment submitted by colleagues Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Arsen Djuric, and also Dr Vladan Batic, is an amendment that is in one part identical to the amendment submitted by the Citizens' Protector. When this government proposes to the National Assembly certain laws, then a few days before that we hear in the media that a broad public debate is being held, that there is agreement of experts on these proposals and, of course, that these proposals are in line with EU legislation. Then we have a situation where the Citizens' Protector, whose work is actually subject to this law, submits a number of amendments to this bill, which suggests that the Government has not consulted the Citizens' Protector at all, because he may have some experience, given that he has been elected before, that he has received the salary neatly but has no working conditions, because the government has not even provided him with an office and computer, basics, so that he can perform that function for which the National Assembly has chosen him. By the way, I see the Citizens' Protector isn't here, I saw him in the Parliament building, and it would be good, Mrs. Comic, to call him. I'm sorry, I didn't see you on this side. So we think that this attitude of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards the MPs, above all towards the opposition's MPs, is at least incorrect. The government's argument that an amendment by the DSS and Mr Vladan Batic are not accepted because the amendment of the Citizens' Protector is something that is unacceptable for the SRS parliamentary group. Why is it not said that the amendment of the Protector of Citizens is not accepted because the amendment has already been adopted in that part, that is, these two amendments that are almost identical? I know it will be an explanation that the Citizens' Protector added another word behind the word "social origin" and that's the word "status", which is also not a problem, although I don't see why the social background didn't remain in this Article of the first law. If it is said that data protection (I am talking about attitude 2, where all these three amendments have been submitted) about a person's personality is provided to every natural person, regardless of nationality and residence, race, sex, language, religion, political and other credentials, nationality, social origin, property, birth, education, social position or other personal characteristics, we do not think that the social origin could in any way be replaced by the word "status", since the status of a much wider character; it would be said that, maltene, all of this contained in attitude 2 can be covered by that word "status". This should not have been accepted because there is no legitimate reason why and social background is not important for the protection of citizens. It would be at least correct by the government of the Republic of Serbia if it had accepted amendments from the MPs, and then this amendment by the Protector of Citizens. Of course, we know that the Legislative Committee can then do a legal-technical editorial that would thus be established in the position of Article 2(1). Proposal for a law on the protection of personal data. This is about something else. Mr. Citizens' Protector was very dissatisfied with the government's bill of law. After all, it is seen through this number of amendments he has submitted. It certainly is his right and we have nothing against it. He can also propose laws, so he can't propose amendments. It is that the Guardian of Citizens was ready to resign unless the government accepted all amendments. That's what was present in the public of the previous days. For that reason, we don't think the government can behave like that. The Protector of the Citizens is elected by the National Assembly. The Protector of the Citizens cannot and must not blackmail the Government. The government is proposing laws, the National Assembly is passing laws. Amendments are submitted by MPs; of course, so can the Guardian of Citizens. And if some of his amendments had remained unacceptable, such as amendments to all MPs of the opposition, then we could be confident that it was the government's real assessment that all amendments of the Protector of Citizens were so good that they should at all costs become an integral part of the bill. Given that the government has adopted absolutely all amendments to the Protector of Citizens, this only confirms what I said was present in the public -- that the Citizens' Protector is threatening the resignation unless his amendments are accepted. This is another proof of the government's relationship with the Serbian parliament, towards the MPs. It is common for opposition MPs mainly, or in almost 99% of cases, to submit amendments to government proposals. It is impossible that MPs can never submit an amendment that is acceptable to the government of the Republic of Serbia or to the ruling majority. When you saw that there were good amendments to the opposition and if they were not an integral part of the law that the law would be very bad, that the law would lack some, minors, basics which are the essence of this Article 1st Article 2. The bill of law, you have come to accept only the amendments of the Guardian of Citizens. This is not a good relationship with the National Assembly, and it is indeed a good time for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to stop experiencing the National Assembly as its instrument that will push the appropriate button in the voting day, as MPs of the parliamentary majority behave. The government must also take care of what the MPs think about its proposals. We, in our own time, spoke and expressed our position and the need to introduce the institution of the Protector of Citizens, as well as the law itself. Serbian Radical Party MPs had no positive opinion in either case. Now that we have that fact, you have to make sure that the law that will apply, that is, on the basis of whom amongst others will work and that the Protector of the Citizens has to be such as to suit the opposition's views, at least in one part. Because, I repeat, it is impossible for the MPs of the opposition to have no responsible and professional man capable of writing an amendment that truly amends the law. When we talk about the amendments that were submitted, if they were not adopted, we would get a law that is inadmissible or that would already be discriminatory in the beginning. If it wasn't for this to be accepted to speak in attitude 2 about the protection of personal data and given the years of life, then we would really be in a situation where we don't know whether this law applies to children, whether it applies to old and powerless people, whether it applies to people who are working. It is good that this amendment has been accepted, but it is not good that this is how the opinion of opposition parties and MPs of the opposition is discriminated against. So it will go in order, look, every amendment proposed by the Citizens' Protector for the Government is absolutely acceptable. We will, of course, speak individually. By accepting amendments by the government of the Republic of Serbia, these amendments become an integral part of the law and thus the opposition MPs are prevented from saying what they think of these amendments, which is also not good. These amendments should have been allowed to be discussed, as the Protector of the Citizens is not Godlike either. It doesn't mean that every amendment he's proposed is supposed to become an integral part of the law. But that's the government's position. We have listened to the previous days in which all those so-called representatives of independent institutions influence the work of the government, namely the functioning of the government itself. If someone threatens with a resignation, the government meets all conditions, and before that, a man enjoys, does not work, because he has nowhere to work; he receives a salary that is extremely high for conditions in Serbia, forms a team, has no office, has no basic working conditions. The Protector of the Citizens isn't the only one who's been through this. It is important for you to meet the formal conditions that require of you – to pass a law, to place some of your people on certain functions. Of course, you must call them nonpartisan, and it is clear to everyone that that is not true. Although, there is no reason for anyone to hide as a non-party person, because we do not think that people belonging to certain parties are contagious and should not be elected to all functions that exist in the state. But there's no reason, and there's no need for citizens to cheat on stories that someone is a foreign or non-party person. You have a majority, you have the right to place on all functions people belonging to one of the parties of the ruling majority. As for that, we from the SRS will never comment on you, but we will always make remarks and insist that the National Assembly is not an instrument in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that we are not an instrument in the hands of Boris Tadic. He can spend his dictatorship elsewhere, and we will insist on seducing his dictatorship in parliament. You know, for days now, we've been talking about how you've made it possible for a group of citizens to act here, play MPs, not to have the right to do that. The least we expected was for the Citizens' Protector to talk about it, because he should also take care of the election will of the citizens. Of course, we know that it is not his exclusive jurisdiction and we know how to protect the will of the citizens. You don't want to do that. But we would be really pleasantly surprised if the Citizens' Protector, as you say, as a non-partisan person and an independent organ, told us at least his opinion on whether citizens can sit in parliament, whether citizens have the right to take 20 terms, even if they are led by someone who said today that they have finished law school. I don't know when, is it during the National Assembly session, before that group of professors were arrested, or is it now that they're back in college?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3850	There is the word of the People's MP Donka Banovic, then the MP Vladan Batic. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, followed by Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3851	The President-in-Office, MPs and colleagues, when we received the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data, immediately came and there was a proposal for an amendment by the institution, as well as by Mr Sasa Jankovic, who is the Protector of Citizens. This showed that the ministry did not seriously implement the procedure when this bill was established. To expect it, I think that's what MPs who are in opposition and those who are in the ruling coalition expect, that every bill that comes before us goes through a serious procedure. If the Citizens' Protector did not participate in the adoption of a proposal of such a significant law, which is from its immediate work, then this shows that the bill is not taken seriously. We have three proposed amendments to Article 1: one amendment was proposed by the Citizens' Protector, and he was accepted; the second amendment to the same article, attitude 2, was submitted by a group of MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and the third amendment to the same member and the same stance was submitted by Mr Vladan Batic. As you can see, MPs read all the laws very closely, so, like the Citizens' Protector, we noticed that here in the lists that are all categories, or that they are all protected, the word "years of life" is missing. I'll read what's in Section 2. We think it really needs to be added years of life, because underage faces are a particularly sensitive and endangered category. "The protection of personality data is provided to every natural person, regardless of nationality and residence, race, gender, language, religion, political and other confidence, nationality, social origin, property, birth, education, social position or other personal characteristics." So that's where the words "and the years of life" really need to be added. An amendment submitted by the Citizens' Protector was accepted because, I suppose, it is more comprehensive, in the sense that after the word "social origin" is deleted and adds: "and status". However, if they are MPs, it is now by chance the MPs of the opposition have submitted the same amendments, I see no reason why these amendments have not been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3852	National MPs, a brief announcement: The Republic Election Commission set up a report on the election of a MP at a session held on 9 October to fill a vacant seat in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In the election process, the Republic Election Commission found that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008 found that the SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj had suspended the mandate of MP Veran Panic and that the mandate for this vacant seat belonged to the SRS electoral list - Dr Vojislav Seselj. You have been presented with a report by the Administrative Board which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament finds confirmation of the mandate to the MP. On the basis of the RIK report and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Zoran Popovic, elected from the electoral list of SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj. I congratulate the People's MP on his election, and I invite him to enter the O.R. You also received Ferz Celovic's resignation as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a report by the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, which found that the resignation was the case of Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposed that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the same law, would determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office had expired before the election of MP Ferz Celovic, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia -- Boris Tadic. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3853	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I'm looking for an explanation because I think we deserve it as applicants of the amendment. First of all, it is true that several distinguished fellow Members of the Parliaments cannot be privileged here or privileged applicants of the amendments and that in the legislative procedure, which includes the amendment, they must all have the same treatment. The fact is, I don't know for what reasons, the Guardian of Citizens received a bill 15 or 20 days before he was forwarded to the National Assembly or, more specifically, to the MPs. We have a day or two left to invest, possibly, amendments. That's one level of what I wanted to say. Secondly, it is not clear to me how, on the one hand, an amendment which in one part is completely identical to the amendment that I, as a national MP, have submitted. If the amendment of the Citizens' Protector is more relevant, then it should be said – amendments by MPs who have mentioned years of life as an additional criterion are accepted and part of the amendment of the Citizens' Protector relating to social status is accepted. The truth works, it's reality. This turns out that the Citizens' Protector has proposed an identical text in one part of his amendment and that is accepted, and what the MPs have proposed is not accepted. In view of the correctness of the proposal's status, I would like to propose to a representative of the Government, a respected minister of justice, to accept this suggestion and accept that part of the amendment, which is entirely identical with the part of the amendment of the Citizens' Protector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3854	The word is by MP Momir Markovic, pointing out the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3855	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, at this moment you have violated Rule 100's Rules of Procedure, which says to the People's MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker. Since I reported and advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, two speakers were behind this assembly pay phone, and then you gave me your word. By the way, I'm reporting for violation of Article 104: "People's MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly." At this very moment, in another hall, at the meeting of one committee, the dignity of the National Assembly was severely violated. The citizen who chaired the Management Board in the middle of the session, at the 3rd item of the agenda, rose from the seat of the chairman and left, and thus ended the session of the Administrative Committee. In particular, the Management Board session is not completed and these decisions taken by the Administrative Board may be valid only as soon as it is established that the session of the Administrative Board has been completed. After all, nothing else could have been expected from that citizen. I remind the citizens of Serbia, remind the DS that it is your responsibility. I remind you that the Serbian Radical Party has won the post of chairman of the Administrative Committee. I remind you that one group has left the SRS, has been excluded from the SRS, and the post of chairman of the Administrative Board should be returned to the Serbian Radical Party. Only when you've solved it will everything be solved. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe this behavior on the committees of the National Assembly can no longer be tolerated. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I demand that this be finally resolved, that the committees can function properly. I don't think the chairman is allowed to lift the anchor in half of the session and leave. We all met, and the moment he gave me his word, in a situation where there was no one to lead the session, that there was no one to chair and that the session was literally interrupted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3856	National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3857	The amendment states that Article 3 relating to data processors must be added that the data processor "has its headquarters, or residence in the Republic of Serbia. "Also, in Article 3(1), point 7 of the data user is added "and has a seat, or residence in the Republic of Serbia", and in Article 3 paragraph 1 point 8) after the word "processing" is added "and has a seat, or residence in the Republic of Serbia". The next part of the amendment is that Article 3 after point 10 should be added: "If the controller, user or data processor does not have a seat or place of residence in the Republic of Serbia, he must appoint his representative in the Republic of Serbia, who meets the conditions that he has a seat or residence in the Republic of Serbia and that he uses the equipment located in the Republic of Serbia." Namely, the bill, generally, does not specify additional conditions for the status of handlers, processors and users. The trustee, pursuant to Article 50 of this Act, shall carry out a preliminary check, the manner of which shall be determined by the Act of the Trustee. I believe that the frameworks of such an act should find their place in the law, as well as that it would be necessary by law to regulate the minimum conditions of acceptance of legal or natural persons that can be found in one of these three properties. In this respect, different rules should be established, depending on whether the handler has its seat or residence in Serbia. If not, there must be a representative, who has such a seat in Serbia, that is to say, to use the equipment located in Serbia. As a relevant analogy, it is possible to specify Article 5 of the British Personal Data Protection Act. The basic lack of this law in general, and in particular this Article 3, is that inaccuracy in defining that always leaves room for conscious or unconscious abuses. I'm not a lawyer, but as a psychologist, I know it's very dangerous when something is meant. This usually leads to interpretations, not to literal application of precise conditions. Perhaps we could also say that Montenegro would not, since it had previously voted for Serbia's initiative in the UN General Assembly, recognise so-called. An independent state of Kosovo a day later. It would also be understood that the first in the Serbian Parliament would discuss a resolution that 108 MPs submitted, which would somehow contribute to strengthening the negotiating positions of Serbian representatives. It would by no means be understood if Kosovo and Metohija were removed from the agenda. There would be a lot of things. Speaking of equipment, it would mean that we have, for example, domestic equipment in the Serbian Parliament, but now I'm going to show you what we received through congregation services from office materials. Here, you see, this fine, yellow block with the poetic name "Bee" was produced in Zagreb, Croatia. It is perfectly normal for MPs in the Serbian parliament to use Croatian equipment. That's why or maybe because it's a yellow block, so it's the best way to go in the tender, or maybe Serbs don't have enough perforation blocks. Secondly, this part of the ruling majority of these blocks are not necessary, they often do not know what law it is, they do not need to take care of the amendments. You barely get them for the quorum, and somehow for the vote they come. So I don't think it matters whether the law is precise or implies that those who handle, use and process such significant personality data have residence and headquarters in Serbia, or use the equipment that is here. Why would the English have more reason for doubt than we do when experience shows that paranoia in Serbia is no longer a disease. It is, in fact, the result of good information and greater awareness. Information management is human management. By compromising people's data, they serve to trade, blackmail, ransom, obtain concessions, calm down journalists who co-operate in the ban, consent politicians to co-operate, deter public figures from giving support to opponents of the regime. We're almost used to media abuses, by seeing on the front pages of the newspaper several times, medical diagnosis, pre-covered data, transcripts of phone conversations. Such abuse of personality information can be the basis for various types of corruption, and it is certainly very important to fight corruption in detail, precisely and without the meaning and subsequent sublegal acts, which are usually brought far from the eyes of the public, to define each member more precisely. I appeal so much to the MPs to think and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3858	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3859	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in the explanation of the government we received on Friday in response to the amendments submitted, just to check that it is not in addition, but as far as I can see, there is no explanation written for the amendment submitted by counterpart Aleksandra Jankovic. This is a serious topic that we would now have to discuss in the presence of Ms. Minister and Protector of Citizens, because through this amendment we are coming up with key questions for our country and our unprotected citizens. In the past 18 years, we have had various kinds of abuses of personal data by the service, state authorities and various others, but what I want to point out, when it comes to this amendment and the clear and precise intention of colleague Jankovic, that he who processes the data must inevitably have a place of residence and is registered in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, is a very serious matter because of the phenomena currently happening in our society. I must inform you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, that seven months ago, I asked the director of BIA and the interior minister about a certain Rank Tadic, a brother of the uncle of the president of the Republic of Serbia, who is one of those who owns listening equipment, above all, political insinuators. At that point in the committee session, I saw by Mr Bulatovic's reaction that he was not surprised. He said he would check the data after I gave both the address and the location where the gentleman was located, so on a direct order from Boris Tadic, at the Sports Centre "May 25th". To this day, I have not received an answer to that question, and this process continues. We Serbian radicals absolutely have nothing to hide, not in public or in political life. I see those who have gone rogue and who are excluded from the SRS and how they have something to hide. Some have even been so interested in their "secret files" that they have personally called the former BIA director, but not to ask what the state of the country is, what the Cypriot terrorists in southern Serbia are doing in these three municipalities, but whether the BIA has any information from their private lives. Now, who's doing what he's going to have to account for it and before God, but you know what it's said, and in front of him who's sworn to something like that. But I want to apostrophe one very important thing that will happen to us in the future if you do not adopt the amendment of colleague Jankovic. So this rattling in footnote by Sonja Biserko, the mode of action so-called. NGOs, particularly anti-Serbian, such as Natasa Kandic, the processing, pressure and blackmail of those who should testify in the Hague case against Dr Vojislav Seselj... Here, a man sits here, Ljubisa Petkovic, and now you ask him how the pressures were done, how he was processed, doesn't even know himself, although he was so vispered that he could recognize the intentions of those villains who wanted to blackmail him and his family to falsely testify like all those who appeared in the present trial against our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj. Should I remind you that if you do not adopt the amendment of colleague Jankovic we will come into a situation, such as one Deputy Prime Minister, and now there are many more than at that time that you will choose to give to everyone; you have a citizen who gives it every day, information to the CIA, to the American, British ambassador. Remember the Neabor case and the coffee shop at the Ibaric Master's Department of Chars. Therefore, we find ourselves in a situation where, the other day, a colleague of Munjic would say to us, the state is as a Swiss cheese and that we must, not because of some paranoia that we have, to protect the integrity of our country. Imagine if such a law were passed in the Russian Federation; it would be really funny and no one could believe that someone suggested such a thing, that the data processing would not necessarily have a registration in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that we knew who it was. If one ministry, Madam Minister, your ministry, and other competent state authorities, is prepared to organise, as part of such an act and such a criminal procedure against Dr Vojislav Seselj, the abuse of data, giving financial information, blackmailing and pressure on people, organising people to be arrested and processed, contrary to all constitutional and legal norms, in that prison of The Hague tribunal at 11 Jevrem Grujic Street, then what further do we have to talk about that we are completely unprotected. We're under full protection, we're occupied by the country in every way. We don't have a chance. It's just those of these quasin-government organizations, in fact the Soros, Bush and others, talking about how human rights are at stake for us, or for them. Human rights are at stake for Serbs and Serbian patriots in Serbia. They charged their treason and charged every day. See how those who turn away from ideology and from programs that promote honor and honesty and, as you might say, transparency in every way. They are taken into their own hands, blackmailed by tycoons, one, the other, the third ambassador, and they will now sing, like that unfortunate Nikolic, and speak and sing everything they are asked to. They don't need to put some lamps on him and lock him up in some special rooms, he'll do it himself, go to lunch and talk. That's tragic. Indeed, if you do not adopt in the voting day, since this is not the government's position, because what to expect from the government run and led by Boris Tadic, whose brother has listening devices... (President: I apologize, mistake. Yes, as soon as we mention the one who does and does these jobs, and he happens to be Boris Tadic's brother, then he's a warning sign. Citizens of Serbia, honest people, those who work for their country and their people, regardless of whether they are employed in the authorities of the state administration, the military, the police, have nothing to fear. Those who have promised and who are put into office by all those who do not wish well for Serbia and the Serbian people. That's the biggest danger, and that's why, so I understood colleague Jankovic, this amendment was submitted. Because it is hitting on what is most sacred to us, to the Serbian Orthodox Church, to the most important institutions in our country. Who does that? That's not how some people who are dotons and who didn't get a lot of money for it. If you're asking if it's a major international conspiracy against the Serb people, it is, because they don't want us to agree and they don't want us to have a consensus on the most important national issues. You saw, after a large rally and a raised vote of young people and all Serbian patriots because Serbian hero Radovan Karadzic was arrested, they found a way (in fact, Boris Tadic, Manter and Wardsworth) to break up, or attempt to crack in the main opposition political party, doing what they want, which is to harm Serbian state and national interests. Also known by colleagues from the Democratic Party of Serbia and New Serbia, this should not be explained to them in particular. It's enough that every day, as much as it can and as much as it allows, it sends our president a clear message to the nation. But if you're not, and you're happy people that you haven't, survived these kinds of tortures like all those witnesses, as mentioned colleague Petkovic, like many other people who aren't ready (and thank God that it is, that a million such Serbs) are to betray and sell their country, then you are completely unprotected by this law. Then not only will Sonja Biserko put you in footnote, but every shit that comes to mind, anyone who's paid to break Serbia and who loves and who's happy that we are, unfortunately, a country under occupation. For this reason, I invite you to accept in the voting day the amendment of colleague Aleksandra Jankovic and to try to at least partially protect us ourselves, both our country and its integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3860	The Citizens' Protector submitted to the 6th Amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Ombudsman submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3861	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr Aleksandar Martinovic's colleague had a really explicit intention to improve Article 8. The bill, by adding positions to be incorporated into a member of the law after Article 2(2), 3rd and 4th, explains the way in which the data processing is still not allowed, and that this category, that is, this term for which the citizens and colleagues of Vladan Batic have submitted the correct amendments in an even more detailed way to process and extend the illegal actions. All, of course, taught by experience. Article 8 lists the permitted processing, from points 1) to (8), but more by some inert, dry, without specific examples of protection of a natural person. Yes, the Citizens' Protector has righted it with his amendment, and counterpart Batic, who was accepted by the amendment, but what is, in the legal sense, the protection of the natural person and what possible illicit processing is well explained in his amendment by counterpart Aleksandar Martinovic. Then he said, it would be the following position after the position 2, I will read to you, in addition to all of this: "if the authorised person did not give consent to the processing, or if the processing is carried out without legal authority", which is very important, "if it is done for a purpose other than the one for which it is designated, regardless of whether it is done on the basis of the consent of the person or legal authority", the colleague Martinović now adds to all of this, and says: "Accepting and electronic recording of biometric data from either the state authority or other legal persons is not allowed if the natural person submits an objection, or if the giving of biometric data in electronic form endangers his right to privacy and civil liberties. "Of course, when we first spoke about the introduction of biometric data in our country, we delivered opinions, especially fellow Sladjan Mijaljević, as a publicist, one of the experts for the area of respect for human rights and, ultimately, for the operation of such new phenomena on people's minds and behaviour. We talked a lot, a lot about when the I.D. Bill was passed. But now that what we missed, we were going to make it clear that that was it. If a natural person is to be banned, biometric data cannot be processed for this purpose. That, therefore, is not accepted. "The collection and processing of surveillance cameras in public spaces is not allowed," counterpart Martinovic said in an amendment, "unless the notification is highlighted in a visible public place." Where do we in Serbia today have prominent video surveillance notices? In primary, secondary schools, in front of ATMs, in banks, in various other institutions. But you saw that in the process of preparing the amendments and supplementing the law, so I understood Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojačić yesterday when she talked about it on one of the media, in the process of protecting people from mobbing, i.e. the abuse and misappropriation of people in public place, the unauthorized video-control of one of the key things about mobbing, which people are complaining more and more about in Serbia. That's what you should have taken care of, especially you, Mr. Protector, because you know best that people who don't give their consent for something very often exposed to a variety of inconveniences, and then, in that way, with unauthorized recording in such rooms, in various places and in the workplace, after threats, their dignity collapses, hitting on their family, there are various kinds of blackmails. Therefore, you are obliged to protect the citizens and to accept this extremely good intention and objection through the amendment of your colleague Martinovic. And the third position, which is very important and we have examples that there have been so many abuses, refers to the electronic and central storage of health data, so it is said that it is not allowed, and it is included, because it has been omitted to do so, "unless the data holder", is meant by the one authorised to process data, "in writing, it requires it from the competent healthcare institution". Here, let me give you an example, because you're playing democracy, and obviously you didn't want to learn basic democratic postulates for the last 18 years, as far as we've had this renewed multiparty. I'll explain that to you through an example of data being deposited, protected on VMA. The data is related to the first choice of ministers from Djindjic's government. I know Bozidar Djelic couldn't pass the test from the first time. Professor Vojislav Seselj, the president of our party, has confidently learned that this is because of the pill. Later, when the organism was cleansed and was able to review it, he passed the test he asked him to, or of all ministers from the first Dossian government, Zoran Djindjic. In any case, it is very important that you know that no one, not even the political opponents of the regime at the time, can commit abuse without the authorized person asking for it and to file a written request. We had a case of tragic events in our country, as well as Dr Momchilov and colleagues from other political parties, when the Committee of Surveys was formed to examine the circumstances under which children in Serbia disappeared. Our experts in the field of medicine and legal science are also how they had a difficult procedure, which is also normal, to get the data needed to process such a report. After all the testimony of the participants and witnesses to the Survey Committee, we were very careful to approach what was protected data. If that is not the case, and it is known that it is only for the purpose that the data processing person is doing so and asks the health care institution primarily for the initiation of the criminal process, for the purpose of investigating the shop, because you cannot seek, or whoever is processing the data, whether it is a public or anonymous person, from a health care institution, if it is a mental disorder, if it is a mass murder, if it is a suicidal person, or a group that is so organised, under any name, under any patronage; you, of course, must contact, or have information, or an authorised processor must submit a valid request to the competent health institution. Because often it happens, you are also witnessing that even in the calculation of political insatiables, esthetic stars, people from a public scene are misusing data obtained from a private doctor, from a private clinic, from any health institution, and used for daily and other purposes. Therefore, this was only a good guideline for counterpart Martinovic, who submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS, how to further extend this intention that has been accepted, and colleagues Batic, through the clear definition of three more possible aspects of abuse and to say that, in this sense, on the basis of all domestic and above all international conventions, human and civil rights and freedoms are protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3862	The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3863	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. Proposal for a law on the protection of personal data. Let me remind you, Article 9. The bill reads: "The decision which produces legal consequences for a person or worsens his position cannot be solely based on data processed automatedly and which serve to evaluate one's properties (working ability, reliability, creditworthiness, etc.). The decision referred to in Article 1(1) may be taken where the law expressly lays down, or where a person's request is adopted in respect of the completion or fulfillment of the contract, with appropriate safeguard measures being applied. "I, therefore, have submitted an amendment to this article and the amendment reads - in Article 9(2) after the word "explicably defined" the words "or when the intended function of the Authority of Administration is carried out by law". Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment should be accepted for purely practical reasons. Here's why. In accordance with this proposal for an amendment, the Authority of the Administration shall be given the opportunity to use, under its legal jurisdiction, only automated records. So these are: tax records, election lists, population registers, then birth certificates, death certificates, married books, citizens' books, and so on. Therefore, these are public documents, with the help of which the law requires the Authority of the Administration to carry out a particular operation, so as to carry out the law provided for its function. What would happen if this didn't happen? Then a large number of laws would literally have to be complemented by provisions to allow automated data processing or, worse still, to take a step backwards, that these factually automated records are not used because of the absence of regulations that provide for it. So, you can see that this amendment has a purely practical application. However, I would like to say a few sentences about another aspect of the protection of personal data. I would like to quote a member of our 42nd Constitution, who says, "It is forbidden and punishable to use personal data outside the purpose for which they were collected, in accordance with the law. "The question arises whether in practice it is quite so. In the light of this law, it is said -- it is necessary to pass a new law on the protection of personal data that will regulate this right in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, and international standards, on the other. The question arises, what will happen if some international norms, i.e. the provisions of this law are contrary to national interests, for example. Our political friends from Western Europe and America? So if, say, America declares its national interest that a Serbian student must be delivered to America, then in fact this law becomes a dead letter on paper. In the name of this world's supremacy, in the name of this world domination, any negative phenomenon, to say the negative, can absolutely be declared a fact which is important to them. Then what's going on? The spheres of these powers turn, in fact, crime into their own strategy. But there's no more personality protection, no more personality data, no more of what's being shown here. One of those who have been paid to avoid morale, James Harf, says on this subject of personal data protection in his book, I will quote two or three sentences, from this they will see their role in the protection, i.e. in disrespecting the protection of personal data: "Between August 2 and 5," says James Harf, "In 1992 New York News published news about camps. We caught that news on the flight and immediately contacted three major Jewish organizations. Entering the game of Jewish organizations allows us to compare Serbs, in the eyes of public opinion, with Nazis. Our job is not to check information, personalities and events in that information are absolutely unverified. Our trade is to spread desirable information, to make them circulate as soon as possible, to seek favorably for our first phenomenon. We know very well that the first news counts, the deficits have no efficiency whatsoever. We're professionals and we have a job to do and we're doing it. We're not paid to do morals. "I'll read this last sentence one last time: "We're professionals and we have a job to do and we're doing it. We're not paid to do morals. "Some of you would add, "whoever wants to do morals, go to church. It's an amazing resemblance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3864	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Anyone else want a word? The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3865	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have heard the argument of counterpart Mirko Munjic why it would be good for the government or representative of the government, or in the day for the vote of the MPs, to accept an amendment which, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, was submitted to the article. Nine. A bill of this law. The explanation is really so convincing that I would find it simply amazing that MPs in the voting day do not vote for this amendment. That's why I'm going to look back on the government's opinion. Why does the government say it will not accept or accept the amendment of counterpart Mirko Munjic? The government says: "The decision from the bill is more celibate for the reason that in the event of the adoption of the amendment, automatic data processing could be misused by the authority of the administration, and given the broad authority's competence. "Does this mean that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has no confidence in the authorities of the administration? Does this mean that the Government of the Republic of Serbia knows what kind of people are sitting in certain administration bodies, how data is misused? It's just amazing that the government can say that it's in advance suspecting the authorities of the administration. It says, "having regard to the broad competence of the Authority of Administration"; that is, the broad competence of the Authority of Administration, and then, of course, in accordance with this amendment, and certain data to be used when making a decision by means of automated data processing. See, every day you open some automated counters. You say enough to get into some community, to say what you need remotely, to get that act right away. It's, of course, okay. Why, then, is it wrong to accept this amendment when it is said that this amendment and such a solution would create the possibility that the competent authority of the administration may, in the exercise of its legal competence, use exclusively the records kept automated? Then it says which, meaning: tax records, home books, election lists, population registers, citizen books, etc. These are the wave of public documents. Then it's an incredibly unsettling explanation. In fact, this argument suggests that no one in the government has even considered this seriously and that you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia have given any of the officials to just compromise any such answers. To protect yourself from us MPs saying we can't discuss the law in particular because we don't have the government's opinion, then you're just doing it to get rid of the job. What's the problem? The problem might be that the voter list is mentioned here. I will remind you, this is what the Republic of Serbia is missing and what we are pushing for from the introduction of a multiparty system, which was once advocated by those sitting on this side – it is a unique electoral list as the only right to protect against election thefts. You consciously and deliberately won't do it, you always promise it in some election campaign, I guess you'd get the impression that you have a serious intention to run the election process according to the law and not allow election thefts. You not only don't have that law on a single polling list and a single polling list, to protect yourself from stealing in the elections, you don't want to protect the election will after the election. We have in Parliament today a group of citizens who are not People's MPs, and whom you tolerate for days to sit here, to receive wages, to take journals, to have some of them come out to say, and for you are the people's messengers. These are not the Messengers of the people. That's one of the reasons why you don't accept any serious argument, a serious amendment to the MPs, first of all, the SRS. You think that way you're going to protect yourself, because you're making advance laws that are full, as you say, of a hole. Such laws only make it possible to eskict the right application of the law and that there is always some possibility, some hole in the law. That's how you've been working for eight years. The question is how will this law protect citizens, let's say, from some people who sit in some college and who call cell phone numbers of certain people from the SRS for days and know very well, say "is that and that", and then send a certain message. So there is no protection in the state of Serbia, everyone can listen to us, everyone can watch us, everyone does it, because that's what the state allows, because it's in the interest of the ruling oligarchy. counterpart Natasa Jovanovic spoke about a single amendment earlier and mentioned the Master of Jevrem, a building where Hague witnesses are being prepared. I've asked several times the competent ministers who control that building, who rented this building, who it belongs to, who are those people sitting there. I had never received an answer, or then Minister Jocic once answered me twice that he as Minister of the Interior did not know what was going on there at all, that he knew that there was some police guarding the building, but that the police did not belong to his ministry, that there was some police who, at the time, assumed, in the jurisdiction of the Special Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes. So everyone here can have police, parapolitans, paraorgans of all kinds, just to please those who ask you to. These men who were brought into the Lord of jerem were bullied in the most cruel ways, humiliated, threatened, some lamps were pointed at their eyes, offered to them not know what conveniences, etc. I'm saying all of this from the experience that we have that we're on Dr. Vojislav Seselj's defense team. These are absolutely accurate and reliable data. On that basis, we even filed a lawsuit against Carla del Ponte and Christine Dahl for disrespecting Article 77. The Hague tribunal's regulations. Unfortunately, we in the Serbian state can get relevant data, we in Serbia have a "Big Brother" from all sides; we no longer know who is listening to us, who is watching us. I don't know if any of you can be sure that his phone isn't listening, because unfortunately, today, any noise that has 20, 30, 50,000 euros can do so, and they're still publicly boasting that they can listen to everyone. We from the Serbian Radical Party these days are obsessed with such calls from some coll-center.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3866	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Mojsilovic Radoslav.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3867	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I have come to the floor not with the intention of preventing the normal course of the session, asking parliamentary questions and advertising the violation of a certain member of the Rules of Procedure, but with the intention of asking you fellow Members of Parliament to support the great man and patriots together, football expert Ratko Dobrnic, who resigned as head of Skopje's "Vardar" professional staff, delighted the Serbian nation. He did so even though he is aware of the fact that he can be banned from doing coaching work for a certain period of time, even though "Wardar" is under his leadership convincingly the first on the table, despite having an extremely financially favourable two-year contract with this club. This only confirms the fact that Mr. Ratko Doprenic is an honest and honorable man and, above all, a great Serb and patriot. His explanation of this act, at a press conference held in Vranj, for my great pleasure, since I am a Vranjanac, was very simple: "I can no longer stay and work in a state that recognises the non-existent state of Kosovo and thus wants to participate in the kidnapping of the part of my country's territory of Serbia". His act sparked a reaction from the Macedonian prime minister and the Macedonian government. It does not come down from the front pages of print media in Macedonia and is being broadcast as the main news in all electronic media in Macedonia. I believe that at least at this point we can do for Mr Doposic that all of us MPs in this assembly give him great support and wish him success in his work.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3868	You have advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and on the basis of article 100, you have received a word over the order, so I warn you that this is the kind of exposure that you have abused the same Rules of Procedure, and I hope that we all work together to respect it and that it is one of our excelling obligations. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3869	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in Article 10 of the bill in paragraph 1, says: "The full consent for processing can be given to a person who is able to in a given case only take care of his own interests, after being informed by the handler, in the sense of the provision of Article 15 of this Law." Terminologically, when we talk about "a person capable of taking care of his interests in a given case", I think we legally recognize him under the term "legally capable person". In his amendment, Mr Batic suggests that the 10th word "able in a given case only take care of its interests" be deleted. It seems to me, then, that it is possible to abuse a lot of human rights and freedoms, and in that case this amendment should not be respected. On the other hand, I think it was wise to use a "legally capable person" here instead of "a person capable of taking care of themselves in a given case". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3870	The People's MP, Natasa Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3871	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will take the opportunity to congratulate the newly elected SRS MP - Dr. Vojislav Seselj to Mr. Zoran Popovic, the honorary Seselj Radical from Ljig, on the choice and to give a different opinion than this, which, in accordance with her democratic right and what she understood, was presented by colleague Vojić-Markovic. I think this definition, proposed by counterpart Batic, is good because this is what he asked with his amendment to erase the surplus. So – a full consent for processing can be given by a person after having been notified by the handler, within the meaning of the provision of Article 15 of this Act. Because we are starting from the fact that processing with the consent of a person who is both psychologically and legally and in every sense is capable of giving consent to data processing. That's why he, so I understand, although he's not in the O.R., was going to say that this is an absolute surplus in the text of the law and that it is understood, because further these other views define how it is done when a person is not capable. I would refer more to this, Mr. Protector, first of all to you, and to you, Madam Minister, when it comes to not listing this term which Batic has proposed, which is – the guardian, because this law, or this Article 10, knows only the legal representative. We're starting with the fact that the legal counsel has been laid down by law. We're starting from the fact that if someone doesn't have the possibility of having a legal representative, gets him on official duty, the state has to let him, if so, co-worker Radeta, get a legal representative. In the case of a person whose ability to reason is reduced, if it is a minor delinquency, if it is a person who has his legal guardian, then it was normal to leave next to the legal representative the possibility of being or an guardian, which was also laid down by law. Who determines the custodian over a minor who has committed a minor delinquent offence, or in some group that has a fact that is directed against the state, constitutional order, etc., whether a minor is a person or is an adult with reduced ability? You're not gonna tell me there aren't cases like that, are you? Every day, we have, unfortunately, opportunities to read about it in these black chronicles, that very often marriage mates are guardians of those who have such ability and the ability to reason is reduced, or parents of children, or vice versa, although they may be adults, after hospitalization and after such a factual condition, which unfortunately suggests that someone has a legal guardian. That's why it was necessary to define it, because you can't define who is already by a state authority (if it's a minor then it's a social work centre) to take care of that person (or adult, anyway) now to minimize it and to say it - never mind, he must have a legal representative and, as a rule, if he doesn't have the opportunity to hire him to do it. That is why it was necessary, in order to better define and such cases that are really possible in practice, to leave what Batic suggested – or the guardian, or guardian, whatever you think is more linguistically correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3872	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3873	Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with Miss Natasa Jovanovic's discussion, I just want to draw attention to the minister and the trustee for some of the things that this law and the previous law that this parliament has brought to colludation. The proposal for a law on the protection of personal data should be called - a proposal for a law on the confidentiality of data. On the other hand, we have a proposal for a public data law, and it is related to the Commissioner for Public Information, and the law has been functioning in Serbia for a long time. When you look at this bill and you look at the provisions of the public data law, the first thing that comes in certain cases in cohesion... On the other hand, some of the unscheduled provisions of this law, one by one, so to speak, "jump into their mouths" and lead to inapplicability. Article 8 paragraph 1 of the Public Information Act, I am talking about the law under which the Commissioner for Public Information acts, says this way: "The rights under this law can be subject to the restrictions prescribed by this law if necessary in a democratic society," and I don't see any reason for this -- a democratic society, but let's go, "for protection against serious injury of the above-mentioned interest based on the Constitution and the law". Here, restrictions are strictly prescribed by the Constitution and the law. When we look at Article 52 of Article 7 of this law, then we're going to come up with some of the things that maybe to me, I suppose, and many of the citizens that this law is going to apply to tomorrow... He says this: "The Commissioner will deny the right to take into account the data collection records if required by the controller, provided that this is necessary for the achievement of the principal interest in the preservation of national or public security, the defence of the country, the work of the authorities, the financial interest of the state or, by law, by any other regulation or act based on law, that the data collection records are kept secret." Now let's look at Article 3 that regulates in attitude 5 who's a data handler. He says: "The data handler is a natural or legal person, i.e. the authority of the data processing authority (hereinafter referred to as the controller). "So besides the MPs who work on this law, the protection of data is decided by a natural person. The individual gets the right to protect the public interest and the confidentiality of personality information. This Article 52, paragraph 7, leads to one illogicality, since Article 52, paragraph 7, states that the law determines that it can be done without law. This definition of "or" that appears in Article 52 clearly and unequivocally indicates that it can be legal, but it can be without law. That is why this law, like many other laws that MPs have passed seven or eight years ago, and which, when adopted, became inapplicable and went to the ministers' shelves. This is why I believe this law will not be applicable, and I suggest that the amendment of MP Vladan Batic be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3874	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The Citizens' Protector submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Citizens' Protector submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Citizens' Protector submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 16 by MP Judita Popovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment with the correction legally possible, so I find that the amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Citizens' Protector submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 22 of the amendment, the Citizens' Protector submitted an amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Justice and Administration Committee has not accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment with the correction legally possible. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from the People's MP, Mrs. Veronica Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3875	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected Mr. Protector to further explain these amendments. I am also surprised that the other MPs, especially from the ruling majority, have recently missed without comment, or have not accepted, or I do not know what will happen in the voting day, amendments by the Protectors who are excellent and who are much better than those who have previously been accepted. That's what I was talking about earlier -- what you want just to go through the National Assembly to adopt, so we can't discuss it. When we have amendments that really deserve attention, then it doesn't occur to you to talk about these amendments. In short, I'm going to say, first of all, about the amendment to Article 14 submitted by the Citizens' Protector, which says that the data is collected from the person they refer to and then says that they can be collected from others. The Ombudsman suggested that two points be deleted from this position, i.e. to delete the point that data can be collected from other persons if necessary in view of the nature of the job and if the collection of data from the person concerned requires excessive time and resources. We believe that this amendment is good and that it is really fundamentally changing this Article 14, because Article 14 of point 2 of point 2 already provides that data can be collected from other persons if it is prescribed by law or by other regulation adopted in accordance with the law. This is a broad enough formulation to really mean what you're proposing to delete. This would indeed be celibate, because I guess all of us aim to make the legal norms clear, precise, and that there is no need for too wide some details to be processed, especially as this point 3 really does, which says that data can be collected from other persons if necessary in view of the nature of the job, opens up a great possibility of abuse. What does that mean that's necessary given the nature of the job? Who's estimating what work you're doing, etc.? We think it is mandatory to delete this point 3, certainly point 4), but if this point 3 remains in the law it is quite a danger to apply the law. That's why it's not good. In particular, it is not a good argument that we received from the Government, because the government says it does not accept the amendment because it considers that in certain cases data is needed to be collected from another person, if necessary in view of the nature of the business, or if the collection of data from the person concerned requires excessive spending of funds and time. In any event, the data handler shall be obliged to notify the data processing person to which the data relate before collection. So, the government has never once explained why it does not accept these amendments. I read it on purpose in an explanation, read what this amendment contains that we talked about. Amendment to Article 16. The government does not accept because the opinion is that the concept of "sacrifice of violence" includes the term "sacrifice of human trafficking", so that precision is stated unnecessary. Article 16 refers to particularly sensitive data, so the Citizens' Protector suggested adding "sacrifice to human trafficking" to the victims of violence. This argument given by the Government, Madam Minister, is not in line with the Criminal Code, because there are criminal acts in the Criminal Code involving victims of violence and particularly crimes related to human trafficking. I assume that was your motive when you submitted this amendment. That is why we think that this amendment should also be adopted in order to improve the text of this law. Now, if I remember correctly, it is the turn of the amendment to Article 22. That's why I actually checked in, but I had to say this before that I wouldn't be calling as a civil protection attorney every time. But indeed, when someone proposes something that is aimed at improving the text of the law, then we Serbian radicals have no problem with saying that, too. It is proposed to amend Article 22(2). Article 22 refers to the rights of the person for the purposes of the examination carried out: "The person shall have the right to request from the handler a correction, addition, update, erasure of the data, as well as termination and temporary suspension of the processing. "In Section 2, the person has the right to delete the data," and is then listed in which cases. The proposal here is that "persons have the right to suspend and suspend processing if they disputed the way data is protected, the purpose for which data are used, the accuracy, the completeness and the accuracy of the data, as well as the right to mark such data as contested, until a way of data protection is established, the purpose for which data are used, their accuracy, completeness and urgency". That's good and it's better than what's provided for in the law - that a person has the right to delete data if the purpose of processing is not clearly defined. Here again we come to the question why the previous amendments have not been adopted, because if they were, then it would not be possible to subsequently determine that the purpose of the processing is not clearly defined. It further says - if the purpose of the processing is changed and the conditions for processing for that amended purpose are not met. This again means that there may be a person there who can be maximumly irresponsible, irresponsible and start processing some data and then in half the work, when half the data is available to the public, let's say, he realizes that the conditions for processing for that purpose are not met or that the purpose of processing is achieved, or that the data is no longer necessary for the purpose. What does this mean? Then we don't need laws, and then we can say that anyone can use this data. There are indeed many shortcomings in the bill. We from the Serbian Radical Party have submitted a number of amendments. Remember, at a time when this law was divided into MPs, we had only three days for eight laws to submit amendments. That's why we insisted only on the most important things. It is certainly necessary to take into account the amendments to the other MPs and, of course, the Citizens' Protector, especially when it comes to amendments that essentially improve the text of the law. When I spoke about the first amendment, I said – what the government's relationship with someone who will apply this law and who it is referring to is the fact that the protection of citizens of Malta has submitted an amendment to each member, so to speak, and that it has already been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia by part of those amendments submitted by the Citizens' Protector. If, in the meantime, another amendment is adopted, we actually have a completely different bill than what the Government has delivered to Parliament and what we have discussed in principle. We should have a debate over this new text, because you can see for yourself, if you have followed closely, that we have a completely new text, while accepting these amendments. Finally, when you adopt this law and when journalists wait for the MPs to ask them what the essence of this law is and what you have actually adopted, believe that most MPs will not know what is eventually adopted, given the so many amendments accepted by the government and these amendments that we agree that are good and will not be accepted, or may be accepted, in the day for the vote. So, when the government accepts a large number of amendments to some draft law, it should be a practice for the Legislative Committee to do a legal and technical redistribution and that we have before us a law that we can really discuss. In this way, we don't really know what the text of the law is, because when we talked about this law in principle debate, I'll remind you, we didn't have the government's opinion, we didn't have all the amendments, especially we didn't have an opinion on which amendments the Government accepted. So, unseriously, irresponsiblely, and there is no excuse why we have to make laws so sloppyly and foolishly. But we know what's gonna happen, and it's not the first time. Here, please, remember today, the day you adopt this law. You will see, in the longest three months we will have here a bill of amendments and additions to this law, only because you, representatives of the Government, will not listen to the MPs. Or, you listen to us neatly, record what we say, and then in two or three months, instead of saying what amendments you can accept now, you show up at the National Assembly with a draft law on amendments and amendments to the law, and that law contains 99% of the amendments that we are talking about here in the adoption of the basic law. It's bad practice. It's a waste of time. It is a disrespect for parliament and for the work of MPs. It would be good if you as a minister... And to warn other government colleagues that they're more serious about this business.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3876	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The Ombudsman submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Meso Omerovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3877	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs from the Sandzak Democratic Party, who are part of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, will support and vote in favour of the bill. Today, however, no one should be against the basic idea of this law, and that is the idea that every citizen has the right to know if any data is being kept, what is the content of this data, to which these data are used, who is the data and who is available to them. The right is necessary for each individual to achieve this because it is the only way to verify that the data on it is correct, whether they are meaningful and each individual has the right to react and to prevent the misuse of data if he considers that this abuse exists. When it comes to Article 23. The proposal of this law, which was submitted by the Ombudsman to the amendment, which the Government has heard from the chairman, and the resolution committee has rejected, then there is a problem and through a brief analysis I will try to point out what the essence of this problem is. In fact, Article 23 of the proposed law provides for restrictions, i.e. prescribes cases where an individual may be denied the right to gain insight into the information he or she is kept on. That's why I'm going to read the whole article 23. The bill of law and I ask the chairman that what I quote doesn't count in time. "Right to notification, insight and copy can be limited if: 1) person requests notice from Article 19. 2) and 7) to 10) of this law, and the controller has entered into the public register or otherwise made them available to the public; 2) the person abuses his right to notice, to see and copy; 3) the handler or other person, in accordance with Article 15 of this Act, has already met the person of what he is asking to be informed, or if the person has made an insight or received a copy, and in the meantime there has been no change in data; 4) the handler would be disabled in doing business from his or her work; 5) giving notice would seriously endanger the interests of national and public security, defence of the country or of the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal acts; 6) giving notice would seriously compromise the important economic or financial interest of the state; 7) informing would make the available information for which the law or action is necessary to protect himself, as well as necessary to protect himself from serious or serious matters; and to protect himself; The person has no right to insight as long as the processing is suspended if the processing is suspended at his request. "So, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, what is controversial in this article is the inaccuracy of certain provisions and the use of different terms that threaten to compromise the basic idea of this law. What does it mean to say, for example, that an individual will be denied the right to access the data if the right is misused, and we know that abuse is a broad concept if it is not precisely and clearly defined by this law. What does it mean when, for example, in point 4) the right is said to be limited if the handler is disabled in doing business; or, in point 6) - if the provision of the notice would compromise the important economic or financial interest of the state; or, in point 8), if the notification would jeopardise the important interest of the person? Such provisions, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think you'll agree with me, represent general places. They are not defined and they are not precise and therefore open up a great opportunity for abuse by an authority that keeps personal data. However, some other laws, and the reform laws that we have passed over the past few years, have also similar provisions, which I have previously warned from these speakers and submitted amendments to. For example, the Police Act, we remember, which was adopted in November 2005, in a work that speaks about the jurisdiction of the internal control sector, whose job is to control the work of police authorities and prevents police abuses in Article 177 paragraph 2, says: "If there is a risk that internal police control of the use of their police and police powers, as established by this or other law, would make it impossible or significantly difficult to apply their lives or endanger the health of a person if applied by a police officer, it may temporarily reject the view of the documentation, examination of premises and the provision of certain information and information. "So, you can temporarily refuse control until the minister's decision, but by then you can also conceal evidence or, unfortunately, prevent timely detection of abuse. In a completely different area, for example, in the area of competition protection, Articles 54, 2 and 3 states: "The party may require other interested persons to be prohibited from having access to certain documents or data contained in them if these documents and data are a state, military, official or business secret. The President of the Board or a member designated by him shall decide on the request for insight and the request for a ban on insight. "The provision sounds very logical and meaningful, but how will this president of the council, on behalf of the Competition Protection Commission, decide what is a state, military and other official secret in business? We're on our way to the main field. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have, on the one hand, the legitimate interest of the state to protect the secrecy of certain data, and on the other hand, we have the legitimate interest of the individual, the citizen and the legal person to be informed. What is missing is a code on the classification of classified information, which would be the basis for state authorities, businesses and institutions to place a mark of confidentiality or secrecy on certain documents. Now, as you're about to place this confidentiality mark, you're going to sense it yourself; it's probably not where it's supposed to be. This cannot be a matter of someone's free will or judgment, this area must be regulated by a new law, and only then by sublegal and individual acts. At the very end, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I propose that this amendment to the Protector of Citizens be accepted and adopted, because it retains protection and national and public security, and defense, and criminal acts, and I suggest that these inaccurate provisions be deleted, general places that reduce the value of this, basically very good, law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3878	Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. People's MP Zoran Ostojić came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3879	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, the example of this member and the discussion of Mr. Omerovic is another proof, and in many places in the law it is evident that we lack a law on the classification of secrets, i.e. the law on the secrecy of information. That's what we warned you about in the principle search. It is difficult to apply this law if we do not have a law that defines under what conditions and by what criteria the competent state authorities determine what is a state, business, official secret. Now there is volunteerism, each of us determines what he wants, so we have examples that old maps, which are located in the basements of military institutions, in the 1950s and 1960s, of the JNA documents from Macedonia or Slovenia are still a state secret and cannot be thrown into the garbage because they cannot be declassified. On the other hand, in the procedure, we have a law on classification of data, i.e. on secrets, which in one good way, using the practice of other countries, solved the issue. Last time I searched in principle, I asked a question to be answered by Minister Milan Markovic – whether he formed a working group that wrote the law. On the other hand, whether a BIA working group is run by a man, but the fact that I do not understand why the government did not put into the procedure the laws written by NGOs that handed over this proposal to the Assembly in November. If she thought she was bad, she could have rewritten it, if she thought it was good, we could've already adopted it. It would simply be compatible with those two laws we already have. I think that's why there's a situation like this to mention the secret law. We do not have it; it is given, in fact, the space for state authorities to continue to manipulate these secrets, to do what they want, and it is not something we could call European practice, European behaviour. The law on what is secret and how the document is classified in some countries is applied for 10-15 years. In Slovenia, only five or six documents have fulfilled the criteria to classify as a secret in 15 years. Anything else is available to the public, certainly to the Trustee for information. In Spain, in 20 years, only a dozen documents marked these strictest degrees of secrecy. So once again I appeal to the Government – we will also vote for this law when we see what is going on with this article 45, and we have a sign that something has changed – that this law that exists in the Assembly is on the agenda as soon as possible so that this law that we are discussing today can be applied. It is not essential to adopt laws that are inapplicable, but to adopt laws and enforce them. After all, people from Europe will appreciate the application of the law on the European path, not just the number and quantity, in the evaluation of our behaviour in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3880	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, just one announcement before I ask if anyone else wants a word. The conditions have been met, so I suggest that I confirm my mandate to the MP in the National Assembly in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have just received a report from RIK on the allocation of the mandate to the MP and the report from the Administrative Board, which has determined that the conditions for confirming the mandate to the MP have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament finds confirmation of the mandate to the MP. On the basis of the RIK report and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Bajram Šehovic, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia - Boris Tadic. Congratulations to the MP, and I'll invite him to enter the O.R. immediately after I've decided to take a break, based on Article 85, until 15.00. Thank you. I've set a break of one hour. The work continues at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3881	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon session. According to Article 85(5), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will extend the work after 1800 hours until the end of the search in particular on the starting point of the agenda, where the law to be discussed at 6 p.m. On the occasion of the amendment to Article 23, MPs Meho Omerovic and Zoran Ostojic spoke. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Justice and Administration Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, a representative of the Proposer accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The Citizens' Protector submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. National MP Vladan Jeremic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3882	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the first time in parliamentary practice, I have met with the submission of amendments to certain drafts of the law, and I believe that it is generally confirmed by an unwritten rule that as soon as the amendment arrives from the ranks of opposition MPs, the possibility of a measure being taken in promiscuity. I considered an appropriate, logical and legally justified reaction to the submission of amendments to Article 35 of Article 1 of this Act on the Protection of Personality Data, where, after the wording of the missing person for the deceased, the words "or according to the time limit set by the law by which the data is collected" are added, with an entirely meaningful explanation that this amendment prevents the erasure of data on deceased persons after one year of their death, which would condition that the data on previous owners, acquired rights of dead persons and so on. The amendment was rejected, in view of the recent finding, on the grounds that the Government did not accept the amendment since Article 35(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is a member of the European Union. The draft law stipulates that data in the event of death, i.e. the declaration of a missing person's death, shall be kept for at least one year from the day of death, i.e. the declaration of a missing person's death, while it shall be understood that, if a special law requires that those data be kept longer, they will be kept within the time limits prescribed by that law. It is this formula that implies what gives me the right to believe that this amendment should nevertheless be accepted, in order to only contribute to the quality of this bill that is now in the assembly debate. The proposal for a law on the protection of personal data represents, this has already been clearly confirmed, one and how the unfinished project, given that today we are able to see that a lot of quality amendments and fellow MPs, as well as the Guardian of Citizens, have been rejected; and also, in some ways, the recognition by the legislators of this bill is also the acceptance of a considerable number of amendments. If they are already praised by the partnership with European legal solutions, those who have proposed such a legal act should take account of some similar regulations that exist in the countries of the European Union. Here, first of all, I am referring to the British regulation "Data Protection Act", which, among other things, regulates the conditions of the conduct of regular courts in procedures related to the violation of the rights and obligations relating to data protection, and provides for a particular body that would settle disputes between the Commissioner and other bodies, or persons. In line with this story, as well as my law in the Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I will inform you that five days ago, an action by members of the MUP arrested Mladen Novakovic. The same is Novakovic, director of FK Mladenovac, but he is not arrested for bad games in the championship, but because he is the biggest drug dealer in the area of this Belgrade suburban municipality. What is most interesting in the story is that after a failed suicide attempt at the arrest of Novakovic, according to one printed media, he revealed that he had funded local politicians to enable them to rule, and that in return he had already been the director of the football club. I also express my desire and desire to the public, first of all I think of the citizens of Mladenovac, to wait for that day for the authorities to finally send at least one thing out to cleanup, or to determine what politicians in Mladenov were getting money from drugs and vegetables to be in power, and in return, they thank the drug dealer by placing him as the director of a sports collective. Therefore, it should not be surprising that Mladenvac is at the rate of drug abuse among the leading municipalities in Serbia and in spite of continuing work to combat this problem; it is evident and obvious precisely because of these things that are happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3883	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3884	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment tabled by counterpart Vladan Jeremic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group certainly deserves an additional comment and a request from the MPs to pay serious attention to its essence. Article 35 refers to the storage and use of data in the event of death and the death of a missing person for deceased data collected on the basis of a contract, or consent in writing, shall be kept in accordance with the conditions laid down in the contract, or consent, and the data collected under the law shall be kept for a period of at least one year from the date of death, or the declaration of the missing person for the deceased... ". We asked that it be added after this—that is, according to the time limit established in the law by which the data is collected, after which they are destroyed. In his explanation, he wrote that the amendment prevents the removal of data on dead persons after a year of their death, which would condition that data on previous owners, acquired rights of dead persons and so on are lost. The Government stated, in its explanation, that this amendment does not accept that Article 35 of Article 1 of the Law stipulates that the data in the event of death, i.e. the declaration of the missing person for the deceased, shall be kept for at least one year from the day of death, or the declaration of the missing person for the deceased, whereas it is understood that, if the special law requires that those data be kept longer, they will be kept within the time limits prescribed by that law. There is no single reason, and I have read the government's explanation for not accepting this amendment. I ask the MPs that when they vote on these laws, in the day of voting, they pay attention and vote for the amendment of Vladan Jeremic to Article 35. Why am I stressing this specifically? Because of the specificities in which the Serbian state is located, that is, a large number of Serbian citizens. Everyone knows how many refugees, exiled, displaced persons are in Serbia. It is known to all of us that the number of persons missing in previous wars has not yet been established. Many families have submitted requests to the competent services for the death of a person, especially for the reason that, unfortunately, they have not been able to exercise their rights in this country based on the fact that a person, a member of the family, does not appear for tens of years. Then wives, mothers, children applied to the authorities, declared themselves dead, first of all, unfortunately, to exercise the right to retire. It happened in practice that even after the death face was declared, a person appeared. Unfortunately, chances are low, but there is such a possibility. That is why we must not restrict any law and stand in the way of someone to exercise their property rights in such cases. It's about these cases I've been talking about. It is property located on the territory of other countries or in Kosovo and Metohija. If we don't accept this amendment, if this information about the person declared dead is deleted so quickly from the register, it may happen that such a person still appears and that it loses all rights, above all the property rights that would have been in life at that moment. And, God forbid as many such cases as possible, but also one if we were, we would be very sinful because by not adopting this amendment, we can bring into a very inexplicable situation the family of such persons. I repeat, I'm sure you all know of such examples, unfortunately, I know a lot of examples where family members hope their family members are alive. But they've been gone for years, and they can't survive because they have no right in this country and the only way to come up with some cash compensation is to declare their family member dead. Of course, at the moment when they ask for it, they meet the conditions that the law provides - that the person does not appear for five years, that his residence is not known for at least five years, etc. But I say, this is a specific situation, these are specific cases, they can happen, and that was, in fact, the essence of the submission of this amendment that my colleague Jeremic submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. For this reason and for all these people, because of all these families that had to declare their members dead and missing, even if they didn't have some tangible proof of it, but they had to survive in order for the rest of the family to survive, on behalf of all of them, I ask you to accept this amendment and that we all wish together to apply ourselves in many cases and that as many of these people who have disappeared in these last wars would appear and that no law that has been brought to them in this House would stand in the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3885	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Momir Markovic. Here you go. You have three minutes and 30 seconds at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in favour of the amendment of the People's MP, Mr. Vladan Jeremic, just two examples. I know a family from New Belgrade whose son left as a volunteer, fought, married in the meantime, had a child, died. His wife, in order to exercise her right to retire – she gave up her child, and today the child lives and is educated with his parents in New Belgrade – when recognising the excavation of a mass grave shows to a man, she says, that is, my husband, and therefore exercise the right to retire. The funerals of a man and only a few years later, when digging up another mass grave, the mother recognizes the other corpse as the earthly remains of her son. It's hardened by DNA analysis and, of course, after that, the family's pension comes back to the child, not the wife. So it's possible that abuses are possible if data are destroyed within a year. There is no longer a possibility of establishing a possible new identity. Just one more thing: the head of the SRS municipal board from Orahovac, at the time of the war, is trapped at the entrance to Orahovac, at that intersection for the White Church, taken to Malishevo, and then burned in Klečka. Since there's nothing left of the body parts, he's been declared missing, and his family can't even exercise certain rights today because he can't prove that he died there. This is why this data should be kept and Mr Vladan Jeremic is right when he asks that these data be kept for more than a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3887	Anyone else want a word? On the basis of Article 35, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Justice and Administration Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, a representative of the Proposer accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The Ombudsman submitted to Article 39 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is by Mr. Sasa Jankovic, Protector of the Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3888	Dear Madam Chairman, members of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Madam Justice Minister, I have decided in the current course of today's discussion that I am not explaining specifically the individual amendments that I have endured by estimating that you were interested enough to read the explanation yourself, and it has obviously proved to be a good assessment. However, I think this is one of the amendments that deserve to say a few more words in order to perhaps shed even better light on the legal intention and purpose. Namely, this amendment is directly related to the amendment that I have submitted requesting the erasure of Article 2(2) of Article 45. The essence of these two amendments is in the next. The law we're passing today is the realization of one of our constitutions guaranteed by our rights, which is the right to protect personal data. However, the right to the protection of personal data is one of the human rights that may be restricted or temporarily delayed for reasons of general and common interests which temporarily outweigh the interest of the individual. So we have the right of citizens, so we have the right of an individual, and we have general and common interests that can at some point temporarily outweigh that right. The essence of this amendment is this: when a body that processes and collects data or, as the law says, when a data handler assesses that there are reasons why the right of the community should weigh over the rights of an individual... These reasons are listed and are in the sphere of public security, national security, the capture of perpetrators of criminal acts and other tax-listed circumstances. The key question, therefore, is whether the processing and data collection body will be the one who duly decides whether an individual will be temporarily restricted or if there is an authority that controls the legality and regularity of such a decision. This law, which you, I hope, will soon pass, provides for the current Commissioner for Public Information to change the name and become the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personality Data. It therefore gives the authority one new jurisdiction, a large, serious competence, on the shoulders, and it is he who, after this law, serves to achieve the purpose of the law, or controls whether the law is implemented correctly and whether the right of the citizens prescribed by it is indeed achieved. What is written in the draft law in Article 45 makes it practically impossible for the trustee to decide in such situations whether restricting the rights of citizens is legal and correct. Therefore, it is not disputed that, in certain situations, the competent authority cannot reveal that data are collected and processed at that time, as this would create the purpose of data collection. But there must be an independent authority, not one who collects data, but someone who will guarantee control for all citizens of Serbia at that moment so that no one abuses the right to restrict the citizen's exercise of his rights. This right by the nature of this law is done by the Commissioner. At the same time as the request, i.e. the proposal to delete the restriction on the trustee to assess such cases, I have also proposed this amendment, which, in my deep confidence, fully respects both interests: the protection of citizens' rights against competent authorities, but at the same time safeguarding the interests of national and public security, enables the capture of perpetrators of criminal offences, etc. In practice, this amendment provides that the Trustee (so, this is the state body in which you choose, in which the state trust is invested, and who is obliged to keep as a secret everything that is a secret and he will learn in the course of his duties) in the proceedings under the complaint of the natural person temporarily delaying the exercise of the right laid down in Article 19, that is the right of every citizen to be informed of the data, and of other rights, for reasons of national or public security, the defence of the country or the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal acts, while the reasons for the stay and in a way, this is really very important, which enables the purpose of the postponement to be fulfilled. So, our goal is that there is a competent state authority that will verify the legality of the data-gatherer and decide that at that point, a citizen should not say so. That was the purpose of this amendment. I hope so. I'm sure you'll appreciate it properly. Meanwhile, the MP submitted another amendment to the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice and Administration, which achieves the purpose of what I said. Therefore, the possibility is introduced that the other authority, not the data processor, should verify the legality of the data-gathering authorities. I'm staying with this amendment of mine. I believe that it protects citizens' rights more fully and at the same time national security interests because, let's not forget, national security serves the right of all citizens because national security guarantees the safety of all of us. I'm only going to say two more things because of the demarcation, given that in several discussions we may have wrongly asked the jurisdiction of the Guardians of Citizens and Trustees. Therefore, this law places supervision or the exercise of citizens' rights in the field of protection of personal data in the jurisdiction of the Commissioner for the Protection of Personality Data and Public Information. Then where did the Guardian of Citizens come from in this whole story? This right to the protection of personal data is one of the Constitutions provided for by human rights, and when a citizen tries to protect his rights against the competent authorities, as well as the Trustee for information or protection of personal data, and in this he fails or considers that he has failed, then he addresses the Ombudsman, as well as in the case of any other infringements of the rights he considers to exist. And I never really mentioned resigning on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3889	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3890	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we of the SRS parliamentary group believe that the amendment to article 9 submitted by Mr Jankovic, the Citizens' Protector, is indeed an excellent amendment. He's in a clear, precise way... Can I find out what's funny? Something about an amendment or something? So I'm going to have to explain to you what this is about. Whether you from the Democratic Party are following or not the Protector, you are in collegiate with his thinking, and if a man based on his experience so far, even though you have barely given him an office for work, equipment and everything, he still has certain knowledge and concerns for national and national security, which is why he proposes this amendment. I will tell you why it is very important, although Mr. Jankovic has really explained it professionally and given examples of such a claim, to accept this amendment, and we still have that opportunity in the day to vote. Here's why. So, the trustee as a new institute, as someone who appears in this law, has in law a clear basis for his rights and obligations and restrictions regarding doing his job, which we have talked about in the course of debates in detail and in amendments. But here we come to a very delicate situation so that he can delay the right to appeal to those citizens whose rights... All citizens are innocent until proven otherwise, and this presumption of innocence does not exist only in the Hague anti-Serbian tribunal, it is a common thing; it is not respected international law, so there, on the justice of God, has been our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj, for six years. If we're talking here about the indication that there's a danger that an individual will, in any way, compromise the national and national security, financially, because we're a rotting area, especially because we have this coup against the Shipatarian terrorist groups, that we have various other phenomena, start with the spy organisations of America and the Western forces that are uninterrupted here, and because we have in the right sense the institutional mafia that this job ends through the tycoon, you now want to deny the amendment of the Guardian to all of us that some individuals are protected and that the Trustee is the one who will at some point assess whether or not it should protect the data of such individuals that are listed here, and there are many such examples. You've given another authority the opportunity to decide, and that's not good because there must be, in these situations, a certain supervisory vision. I'll tell you that on the basis of my experience, my personal and colleague from the Defence and Security Committee. So, we who are members of the Defence and Security Committee must respect, first of all, the law, the Constitution and when it comes to the work of the Security-Informative Agency which, before today we establish this law to protect the personal data and establish the Trustee, process the data for both individuals and groups, we are bound by the day of accession to the Defence and Security Committee to keep that information as an official secret. I mentioned here this morning the case of a citizen who pushed these outlaw groups, who intervened with the Director of the Security-Informative Agency, but not to ask if they were in a hurry to take up the Shipari or if something was going on and whether there was financial malfeasance (and why, when he was in the best of friendship relations and paying him), but to ask for some of his personal things, if anyone had seen him here or there, where he went and when he came, which is irrelevant, people are laughing. No, that's not what Mr. Citizens' Protector meant, but he really meant the danger that someone by committing serious crimes would endanger national and national security. If we, ladies and gentlemen MPs, as members of the Committee on Defence and Security twice a year consider the report on the work of the Security-Informative Agency (and this is public, it has been a way of working as long as Mr. Milorad Mircic was on the board), then we know, as the Director of the Security-Informative Agency, that what we have read, which is an official secret, and for terrorist groups, for the mobs, for this or for what we know the Ministry of Interior is working on and on the tobacco mafia, the social mafia, and to monitor the movement of certain people, businessmen, of course we won't talk about it... Although, once we started talking about it publicly... First of all, Mr. Jadranko Vukovic mentioned Miskovic and Beka and he got the bags there, in front of the elevator -- "don't say it, it's not good". And then we find out that they paid these outlaws and those individuals, and we understand why we shouldn't have talked about it. It's a public secret that they're tycoons, that they're poor people. to put money in their pockets and to instrumentize individuals to finish the job, and Boris Tadic, for them. This is about the possibility of the trustee not assessing well, Madam Minister, or that he is now in a more privileged position than we are, or even people who are employed by the BIA. All that is a strict state secret, which can put us in danger, we are looking, or Mr. Jankovic, to be treated as such until the moment until this potential danger ceases and until we are in a position for the entire public to know it. He's the one who brought it here... That's right, Mr. Jankovic, it's directly your amendment, and I won't even report back to Article 45 for eradicating this position because in case we don't take care of the state that way, it'll take us a long way. Or it is not in anyone’s interest to treat these more extensive issues in this way. Every Serbian Radical Party MP, believe me, who participates in the Security Committee's work takes the job seriously. Even we never, which also requires us to comment on this code, because in a certain room of the Defence and Security Committee, we read these data that are a strict state secret, we already know that by protecting and preserving these data, after the way we come to them, we protect the state and national interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3891	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Citizens' Protector submitted to Article 40 of the amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 40th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Aleksandra Jankovic. ALEXANDRAJANKOVIĆ: Article 44, where the responsibility of the Trustee is determined, is said among other things: "it gives an opinion on the establishment of new databases, i.e. in the case of the introduction of new information technology in the processing of data", and point 8 "it gives an opinion in case there is doubt that a set of data is considered a database within the meaning of this law". Only these two points, as well as the whole of Article 44, are illustrative enough to indicate the need for closer criteria, i.e. Which is why the trustee will give such an opinion. If the way the trustee exercises his jurisdiction is no closer to being determined, the risk of arbitraryness becomes greater than, say, in the event of institutionalization, which I think is the basis of the lack of this law, so-called. advice from experts, which would also represent some kind of restriction or corrective to the possible achievement of some other interests other than legal ones. I already said in the principle debate that regardless of the declared independence of the Commissioner, as a state body elected by the National Assembly, political reality in Serbia teaches us that there is no exhausted need for additional mechanisms of public control over the work of the Commissioner. On that behalf, I have submitted an amendment to Article 44, where point 17 is added after point 16), which reads: "The Commissioner is obliged to submit a report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia once a year." In Article 44, paragraph 1 after point 17, point 18 is added: "The Commissioner is obliged to issue at least twice a year an informer on his work which will be made available to the public to the extent that such published data does not endanger the law of protected interest". In Article 44, paragraph 1 after point 18, point 19 is added: "The Commissioner is obliged to, without delay, in Serbian and in languages that are defined as languages in official use, issue and update the manual with practical instructions for effective exercise of the rights governed by this law." This would, however, specify more precisely the work of the trustee's mandatory activities in the personal data protection law. The Commissioner is obliged to submit a report to the National Assembly once a year, which is regulated by the adoption of the provisions of the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning, but given the qualitative difference between this data and personality data, it is necessary to take part in this regulation and explicit legal definition of the obligation of the Trustee to report to the National Assembly on the protection of personal data law. The provisions of the Law on free access to information of public importance (Articles 39 and 40) also provide for the obligation of the Trustee to publish and issue information. However, given the vast number of potentially interested persons whose data are inserted into the central database register, it is necessary to define precisely the obligation to issue an informer and the personal data protection law itself. In order to define more precisely the legal obligations of the Trustee, it is also necessary to enter into the scope of its activities the obligation to publish an adequate manual, according to the reputation of Article 37. The law on free access to information of public importance. I believe that this allows for a greater degree of legal certainty and that the trustee is more exposed to public control. Anyone else want a word? Yes, MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3893	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that this amendment is good and that it should be accepted for the following reasons: the new Personal Card Act, which introduced an electronic ID card with a biometric chip, created so much space for the abuse of personal data that it is not possible to prevent any other law, nor this bill. I think it's only possible to prevent it from passing a new I.D. law, which would put the existing law out of force. If that law that is now in force is applied, we're going to have to carry ID cards with a biometric chip. Practically, each of us will be coded, stamped, in the same way as the coded or stamped throats of cattle, a bottle of coke, a bottle of sour water. Practically, it represents a first step, a mid-phase to some future time when these biometric chips will probably inject under our skin or place them on our ears to wear, as is now the case with the throats of cattle. Next thing you know, if we wear such ID cards, we'll lose the most valuable thing we have -- our freedom and our privacy. Some Big Brother or someone who controls that system will be able to know where we are, where we're going. You know that in making documents, including ID cards, there are often some mistakes. These mistakes then create great problems. However, the advantage of these existing documents is that these errors can be corrected. So these mistakes are transparent and we can correct them at any time. When it comes to these new electronic documents, we won't know what it says, so we won't be able to point out these mistakes. At the same time, until we know what's in our electronic documents, in this particular case in an electronic ID card, an authorized software-run person will be able to at any time not only know what the data is, but he'll be able to freely change that data, to write it down, to erase it without any trace that it's done it. Practically, it will have unlimited opportunity to insert into our biometric data some data that could cause us to have problems, I don't know, that we are members of the Anti-Has Lobby, that we are members of the DS, that we are problematic personalities, etc. The question arises, why did the state of Serbia move among the first in Europe to introduce these electronic documents? The official explanation we've heard is that this was done for rationality and speed, that personal documents would get faster. But that's not true. I've spoken to members of the MUP who are working on these jobs and they claim that the procedure is now more complicated than it was before. The time period needed to extract a new ID card is about the same as the time period needed for old ID cards. The second thing, I.D.s are not taken out every five days or five months, but once in five or ten years, and it can't be a crucial moment to define us for what kind of personal documents we're going to define ourselves. The second reason that it is listed and constantly mentioned in the debate on these laws is that their adoption will allow Serbia to enter so-called. White Schengen leaf. So it's often mentioned here that it's one of the preconditions. But that's not true. There is no international convention, there is no international treaty which obliges Serbia or any other country in Europe to introduce such documents. The biometric maps at this point exist only in Spain. Their introduction has been tried in Greece, however, has led to a multimillion-dollar demonstration, after which the government has withdrawn the law from consideration. In Great Britain, the interior minister was forced to resign because of the bill's proposal. For the same reason, because of mass protests, the law was withdrawn from the procedure in Canada and Japan. There are two much more ground floor reasons why he's in a hurry to bring these documents in. One possible, I do not claim that this is a matter, but given everything that has been happening to us over the past 20 years, I would not rule out that possibility: for 20 years, it takes a permanent Satanisation of the Serbian people where we pose ourselves as a dangerous people, a genocidal people, dangerous individuals, war criminals, and there is no need to rule out the possibility that someone came to the idea that this is a good way to control us. The second reason is much more ground floor. It's a commission. You know that the equipment for making these personal documents, and above all personal cards, was obtained from US Motorola at a time when the interior minister was Dusan Mihajlovic. That equipment was paid $120 million. What's important, next to the figure itself, is the fact that the equipment was obtained without a tender. You know that these jobs in the West come together with a commission ranging from 5 to 10%, even to 15%. Given the level of the contract and the fact that the agreement is concluded without a tender, we can assume that it is the amount of a fee of 10 to 15m euros. Speaking of these personality data, what I still want to draw attention to is the fact that for two years already in schools in Serbia, education workers and students are being surveyed; educational workers and their students are being asked to fill out forms containing data that are literally private data and related to the situation in the family. For example, you have questions there, I don't know how many of you sleep in the room; do you have a computer; how much time you learn; do your parents argue; if your father and mother are divorced and your mother remarried to another, whether your stepfather recognizes you as a legal child etc. A large number of Serbian citizens are currently using payment cards. The introduction of electronic biometric health books shall be announced. Most Serbian citizens use mobile phones. What I'm saying is that we're approaching one moment, maybe it'll be in the near future, in the next five or ten years, when someone can think of a rationality that suggests the introduction of an electronic superdocument that would at the same time be a ID card, a health book, a driver's license. What would that lead to? It would lead to someone controlling that data at any moment knowing where we are, who we're talking to, what we're talking about, whether we're sick and what diseases we're sick of, how much money we have, what we buy, what we eat, etc. That means we'd become some sort of modern slave. I think the only way to prevent this is to keep this law from being passed, to approach the adoption and adoption of a new ID law. However, since this will not happen and since the majority will pass this law, I suggest that the amendment to the People's Parliament, Aleksandra Jankovic, be accepted because I believe that it will in some way give the Commissioner greater rights to prevent the abuse of personal data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3894	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Ombudsman submitted to Article 44 of the amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Civil Protection Officer has submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Justice and Administration Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, a representative of the Proposer accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The Civil Protection Officer submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are near the end of the debate on amendments submitted to this proposal for a law on the protection of personal data. I want to speak to you very briefly, Mr. Jankovic. I don't know where you get the conclusion that one of the MPs, since mostly Serbian Radical Party MPs spoke of amendments, misunderstood who will apply this law, or who it refers to. You yourself said in which cases you would be involved in the application. We have addressed you for this reason, and above all because you are one of the few state officials who have joined this bill with respect and with regard to the MPs. There was only one communication at that level. I think you've noticed that we've done this law very studioly and of course we know who's going to apply it. This is just for the sake of the public, so there's no confusion that we don't know what we're talking about. The amendment I have tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group concerns Article 57. Article 57 regulates criminal provisions. It is predicted that fines ranging from 50,000 to 1,000,000 dinars will be fined by a handler, processor or user who has legal personality, so it is listed in 17 points in which cases these sentences will be imposed. Our principled remark, which we did not formulate through the amendment because such amendments were never accepted by the government's representatives, and the principled position of the SRS is that the range of fines between 50,000 and 1,000 thousand dinars is unacceptable. It is unacceptable because the application of this law and these criminal provisions creates a great opportunity for abuses. If someone needs to assess whether someone will be punished with 50,000 or 1,000,000 dinars for the same offense, then indeed it's a great honor for those who engage in determining the amount of punishment in this range. It's something that's been present in all the laws, in all the bill proposals that we've been getting for the last eight years. That's a very bad solution. It can freely be argued that such criminal provisions in the laws adopted in this Parliament and how they contribute to corruption, as criminal provisions are applied by state authorities. You know, if someone is said to be punished if they process data without consent, contrary to the conditions laid down in Article 12 of this Law, someone can be punished by a fine of 50,000 and 1,000 dinars and all those figures between 50,000 and 1,000 dinars. So this isn't a good solution. But, well, you're passing laws like this, and that's why Serbia cannot move from the bottom of the scale when it comes to the corruption of state authorities. Instead of passing such laws as is possible to combat, or prevent, abuse, we give laws to some people who, in a large number of cases, are not worthy of doing these functions and are doing these jobs. Of course, there is a regular abuse. The amendment refers to something quite different, that this fine in this range, or the penalty that is determined, should be punished for the offence of whoever is responsible for the loss of personal data, i.e. The loss of the media on which they are kept. This amendment is explained very briefly, in one sentence: "With the dissemination of computer usage and the use of digital media to process and store data, the possibility of losing personal data and the importance of personal data requires that this also be predicted as a violation. "We talked all day about what, in a positive and negative sense, can happen because of the increasing use of computers and the use of digital media. It certainly is technological success that needs to be welcomed, but I'm afraid we're still not at that level that we can do both professionally and, I would say, morally use this and apply these laws. That's why we think it's good that anything that could possibly happen in the application of this law as an abuse is regulated through criminal provisions. If you have 17 counts here, 17 cases where an offence can occur when this law is applied, I see no valid reason, Madam Minister, why you couldn't accept this amendment as well. The government said the amendment does not accept, he said, "because the infringement proposed by the amendment is already prescribed in the provision of Article 57(1) of the bill." It is true that this article in paragraph 11 will punish the person who is acting contrary to the obligation to take the measures laid down in Article 47(2) of this Law. It is also true that Article 47(2) of the proposal states: "The controller and processor are obliged to take technical, personnel and organisational data protection measures, in accordance with established standards and procedures, which are necessary to protect the data from loss, destruction, unauthorised access, change, publication and any other abuses, as well as to establish the obligation of persons employed in processing to maintain the confidentiality of data. "If someone is obliged, and it stands at the beginning of this text, then he who is obliged must answer if he does not perform his duty. In this case, a criminal sentence is provided. In a way, the government in one part is right, but it's not entirely wrong. What was proposed as an amendment wouldn't bother at all. On the contrary, it would contribute to a fairer, better and more sinless application of this law. If we go through the logic of this argument of the Government, then all these 17 points would be excessive and could only be said – with a fine of 50,000 dinars to 1,000,000 dinars, anyone who in any way violates any member of this law will be punished. We believe that you should have accepted this amendment, as you should have accepted a large number of amendments or almost all amendments that have been explained here today and submitted by the MPs; I think that, apart from the Serbian Radical Party, the representatives of the LDP have submitted amendments, as well as the Citizens' Protector. The fact is, all those amendments that were submitted could have become an integral part of the law. This would give us a complete law that would not be in any near future before the MPs again through any changes and additions. I told you in the morning part of the interpretation of an amendment, and I repeat it to you now, that I am sure that this law will have to come back to work very quickly because it is obvious that the return-application was done in the government, or it is a bad translation, because your laws are mostly the translation of the law from the white world, most often unadjusted by the conditions that are at work in Serbia. That's why it would be good... and that is why we have debated all day about amendments of non-SRS MPs, to draw your attention to the fact that, as a Government, you have to take care that when you offer us one law and when the MPs after the debate adopt it, it would be good not to waste any time on the same law for at least the next few years. National MPs from the ruling majority do not want to participate in parliament's work, it is obvious. Of course, I'm not calling anyone, that's your business. Citizens follow our work, and among other things, they take care of who and how they represent their interests here. But since you have a majority of the boards in charge, you from the ruling majority could also go through the board, as has been accepted by some amendments, and through the Citizens' Protector, as some of his amendments have been accepted, to accept almost all the amendments that have been offered to you today. Then we could all be sure together that you have passed a law that will almost prevent the abuse of any kind. You will see the repercussions of what you have brought today; you will see when the newspapers begin to write, you will see when the people begin to entertain themselves because of the application of this law. There are many legal gaps, many, people say, holes in this law. That's not good. You're doing the bear a favor for this Parliament and for the one who's going to apply this law. Our objections are extremely well-intentioned. Our sincere wish is for this parliament to pass laws that will benefit all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Your intentions are obviously different. It's just for you -- let it get off the agenda, let it pass the law, watch for an hour whether to extend the work or finish at 1800 hours to get as many laws out of the tape out of here as possible. That, dear colleagues, is not a good way. Don't make a good legal system in the state. You're not creating the security of the system's institutions, you're creating the opposite of that. In the end, that's what comes to the citizens' heads. In fact, that's what I'm saying for the citizens and because we Serbian radicals want, in every respect, good for the citizens of Serbia; I'm not saying it because I want to distract you and get you on the right track. It's, I'm afraid, difficult and late. So, another call – vote for all these amendments and then you can make sure you have a good law. If you don't vote, if it stays the way our government's representative, or how the government told us which amendments they won't vote for, you'll get a law that will be inadmissible. Every time we told you that, it happened. Rest assured, you who have experience don't have to admit it, but you know how many times we've told you from here -- this is inapplicable law, you laughed and proved yourself through practice, or through the inability to apply the law that we were right. This time we also tell you, this law is inapplicable and opens up a great opportunity for abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3896	Anyone else want a word? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3897	I just hope you don't include this time needed to quote a member of the Rules of Procedure. So I reported to Article 226: "The MP has the right to request information and explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues from the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. "Here's the thing. Of course, we, the SRS parliamentary group, are not happy about the fact that there are not even the remains of democracy that so many representatives of the ruling majority have promised in post-five-October Serbia. However, what is the way the Serbian Radical Party works and what we are actually going to start from now on as a long-term campaign is that we support every principled debate with concrete facts and data on the abuse of basic human rights in Serbian, completely non-democracy, society. Why non-democratic society? First, we have a problem with law-making, and then when we pass those laws, they're completely declassified. The tyranny of certain powerful people in Serbian society allows for the self-will and absolute doing of basic rights, such as the right to free expression of thought, the right to freedom, the right to work. Let's make a point. Every day we'll do it from this pay phone, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, even if the pay phone and we look like Hyde Park, because there's no other way of SRS. In Serbia, those who are slowly but surely daily deprived of even the right to knock on a certain door and ask the competent institutions to respect the letter of the law. To make a point, I'd like to refer the question to the Ministry of Defense. This is Lieutenant Colonel Mancic Zlatan, who was sentenced to seven years in prison in 2002. The Supreme Military Court's ruling in Belgrade in the second part sentenced him to 14 years in prison. For the Department of Justice, maybe someone else on a specific issue. The object itself was very controversial, there were unsaid things. The Supreme Court, you will hear this a little later, found that the Law on Administrative Procedure was brutally used here. Generally, Serbia's Supreme Court ruling abolished both military courts' verdicts and ordered the holding of a new main search. So, this procedure is ongoing. After the verdicts of military courts were abolished, in 2005, the legal basis on which Mancic lost the rank of colonel, and thus the right to work. Since the justice of the verdict, he has repeatedly addressed the Ministry of Defence. The Ministry of Defense has disobeyed Colonel Mancic Zlatan's request. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope now to earn a little more of your attention and that this chatter will not be heard, because we are talking about the life of one of our fellow citizens, a man who has no means to support his family, a man against whom the proceedings are being lifted, and yet his right to work has been done. (President:Time, speak for four minutes. ) So, for the Ministry of Defence a concrete question, since it has been five months since the ruling of the Supreme Court of Serbia, and for all of you, and for the Ministry of Justice and for the present representatives of the Government, when will the ruling majority here respect basic democratic principles, respect judicial, executive and legislative authority, and above all the rights of every man to the life of a human being? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3898	It would be good if respect for all rights began with respect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Marina Ragush, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3899	I am really trying, Madam President, to respect this prestigious home in the Republic of Serbia at any moment by not throwing myself out of place and by trying to follow the letter of the Rules of Procedure. We tried to take this protection of human rights, and failed, through the Committee on the Protection of Fundamental Human and Minority Rights. Since 5 October in the Republic of Serbia, it is a sad fact and it does not cheer us, we are those who are colored as members of the totalitarian regime. There is no committee in this prestigious home that can deal with the fates of the people and the fates of our MPs. So this comment was totally inadmissible to you, because I don't know how you can count human fates through a time that's been exceeded in one minute or through an object that wasn't respected here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3900	The breach of the Rules of Procedure you just said doesn't exist. It's my duty to apply the Rules of Procedure. You received 35 seconds to quote the provisions, and in the fourth minute I reminded you that it was time for a breach of the Rules of Procedure three minutes ago. Whether we apply the Rules of Procedure or cannot depend on the contents of the speech of the People’s Parliament or the MP behind the speaker of the National Assembly. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3901	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, in order to speak to us at all, and colleague Marina Ragus, on the respect of the Rules of Procedure, you must first respect him. I tried in a very peaceful way, which could have helped you in a moment, to tell you who it was, since it was obvious that you didn't know the name of the MP, because if you knew that, you would have known that before Ms. Marina Ragush came to the pay phone, she said that you were giving the word after the injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marina Ragush. The fact that you do not know who this beautiful woman, the Serbian radical, is a Serbian woman, who is the subject manager of Professor Vojislav Seselj in front of the anti-Serbian UN tribunal, is your problem. I want to instruct you to finally start following this process tonight from 10:00 p.m. on the second RTS programme, so that you may know what this is about and why it is now defending one of the Serbian heroes, and this is the Lieutenant Colonel of the Army of our country, who has certainly advocated his working age to defend the interests of the state and the people. Therefore, I must say, in order to know the MP Marina Ragush and to know the other MPs, while you have measured whether she is in the fifth minute, four minutes and 35 seconds, and to thank the people of RTS, they have agreed in the second minute to sign that it is the MP Marina Ragush from the SRS, which they usually do in the first ten seconds, when the chairman, respecting the Rules of Procedure, to give a word to whoever applied. Next time, prepare better for the seat of the chairman. Learn by both the figure and the name and the last name of all the MPs, thus showing your example of respecting the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3902	You're absolutely right. The microphone was on before I said the name of the Marine Ragush People's Parliament, but I was correct by saying that Marina Ragush's MP was looking for a word for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. As for the other remarks you have made, there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure by any member. People's emissary Elena Christmas-Talian, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3903	I'm reporting to members 225 and 226. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is addressed to the competent authorities – what measures will be taken to protect the freedom of information and the safety of journalists when it comes to the case that I will present. Indeed, the scandalous actions of Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic are that directly endanger the freedom of information and the safety of journalists. At Sunday's conference, Vucic took place in an open-air chase against the owner of Mr. Markovic's "Palma" TV and the famous journalist, Mrs. Oliver Miletovic, only because she allowed her guest on her show, and our MP, Jadranka Vukovic, to present facts about Nikolic's and Vukic's ties with tycoons, with Boris Tadic and the fact of taking enormous amounts of money. There are serious threats, and don't be fooled by the fact that Vukic is trying to introduce himself in public, so in one of the interviews he explains to the journalist how he's become flabby because he's progressed. The words addressed to Mr Markovic and Mrs Miletovic show very dangerous intentions. This, by the way, is not the first threats made to Mr Markovic and Mrs Miletovic. Recently, Nikolic even more openly threatened Mr Markovic, also because of Mrs Miletovic's show, telling him, quote, "I will close your television". That's what he said, and what else he meant, I don't know. The security of Mrs Miletovic and Mr Markovic is seriously at risk. Nikolic does not hide the power and the ability to shut down media that he does not like. Where does he draw that power? From close ties to Boris Tadic and the regime. Vukic's attempt to replace the thesis and claims that Tadic and the regime have something against the so-called. Progressive parties are nebulous, as the party has just been built by Tadic and the tycoons. This is the answer to Vucic's failed attempt to defend himself. Now, I quote, I hope you're not wasting my time: "SRS charges to commit... "
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3904	People's MPs, the lack of time measurement refers exclusively to quoting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which have been violated, not to quoting any other documents, and I ask you to look at it in the Rules of Procedure before you ask for the word for infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Thus, the time needed for a quote does not count exclusively when it comes to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You've got 35 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3905	Now you've interrupted my exposure, and you could count that time and tell me in the end. So Nikolic and Vukic intend to use pressure and steam to silence all media so that the truth about their relationships, the abuses of these relationships and their dirty jobs would not reach the public. I warn the media and agencies not to trust Alexander Vukic when he promises them money, because the demands of Vucic's private debts currently amount to 400,000 euros are already coming to the SRS. Vukic was able to boast about his 8,500-euro watch, a 1,500-euro pen, a basement with expensive wines, hams and cheeses. He should finally pay back the money he owes. It is interesting that Vukic announces that he fears that his and Nikolic's love affairs will be revealed. (President: Time. Who cares about your love affairs? What, are you trying to raise yourself a rating?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3906	I thank you, People's Parliament. National MP Vladan Batic seeks a word based on article 100 to point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please highlight the breach of the Rules of Procedure if you are looking for a word over the order and before the MPs who are taking part in the discussion of the details.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3907	Madam Vice President, you seem bored here. I do not understand the way in which you hold a session of the National Assembly, I point out the violation of Article 27. [[Disabled microphone.]] I don't know how you need to chat with the MPs. Well, this isn't some debate in some studio and then two personalities, two party representatives... You comment every comment of any MP you comment on. Where does it say in the Rules of Procedure? Don't bother interpreting the Rules of Procedure. Well, we lost all the time because of you. After every violation of the Rules of Procedure that someone advertises, we lose a minute to your attempts to explain it. Please calm down so we can deal with life issues. One question of life, based on Articles 225 and 226, is a question for the Minister of Energy, if he interferes in his business at all – what is the purchase price of gas paid by a monopoliest who, for the purposes of "Serbia" imports gas into Serbia pays, what is his margin and what is it actually paid by Serbian citizens? Black on white, what's the name of the firm, at which the price gets, to bring us here as representatives of the citizens how much it's paid in Russia, or where it's paid, and since it's being sold here. So if someone goes to CZ nice, we'll urinate through the minister of justice to have a decent accommodation, because it's a concern of people's money, it's a concern for the citizens of Serbia, not a story she said. I want to ask – when will the information classification law be found on the agenda, which with 72,000 signatures in December of last year have been handed over by some NGOs? It doesn't matter who the promoter is. It's this famous code of secrets, so let's see if the secret is the salary of the director of the airport and how much is a tenth of the salary of some ordinary mortals in this country, let's see what people's money is spent on. That's what the National Assembly should do. Mrs. Komic, I'm finishing up and please spare me your comments.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3908	National MP Vladan Batic knows better than I do that the work I do is not commenting, it is not polemic, but is a liability under Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, paragraph 3, which says that the President of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation afterwards. This "after that" refers to the right of the MP to get word over the line and as soon as he asks for it if he is talking about the violation of any member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. MPs who appear receive the word immediately, as soon as they ask for it, regardless of the fact that they do not highlight the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but under Rule 226 use time to address the present ministers or to address citizens. It's something that's agreed on good co-operation in this session. As long as it takes to remember the third attitude, so many times I'm gonna have to do it again. So the president of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: We insist. ( b) National MPs from other parliamentary groups earn that they insist. Please make a deal. National MP Milan Avramovic points out the violation of the Rules of Procedure and, on the basis of Article 100, gets a word over the line, as soon as he asks for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3909	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. Since in some electronic media, and even in the press, the widely-known newspapers, appear, among the ranks, certain threats addressed to MPs and officials of the Serbian Radical Party, I ask the MUP to submit a report on the following issues. A famous front page has been set to accuse former SRS leaders Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic of being targets. I'm asking the MUP to conclude that they're targets, who targeted them, which is why they're going to go to the media gig on TV Palm, which is why they're going to go to the media gig on our colleague for hosting the show. The reasons for that are the following evidence. One of their newspapers says this about Mrs Oliver Miletovic, who led the show: "If it wasn't for her, Seselj would be the biggest and most aggressive radical. While he's fighting in The Hague, Oliver's being watched on Palm Plus TV. Instead of talking to her, she needs a crystal ball, and it's empty, like Palm's head, not empty, but big as a head. And the ball isn't easy, maybe she didn't hear what Oliver was saying. "This is a piece from a newspaper the owner of which is generally known. I'm asking the MUP to determine who targeted Mr. Alexander Vukic. Was it targeted by those who gave him his new party room in the municipality of Rum? You know the Ruma municipality has been re-electiond, you know that this is a direct aid to the newly created party for the new re-elections? You know that in a large number of municipalities, the mandates remained unrequited to the SRS? Did these people who helped, in some way, target Mr. Wolf? I ask the MUP not to protect the MPs... Because we don't need a story to have a police escort, that's the story of those who are afraid of something. Since our colleague on that show was only telling the truth, we have no reason to be afraid, but those messages that are being sent to all of us, even to colleagues after that show, are not acceptable. Please, Minister of the Interior, put your private line with the gentlemen of the newly formed political party aside and do your job properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3910	The word has a folk MP Marina Ragush, pointing out the breach of the Rules of Procedure and getting word over the line when she asks for it on the basis of Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3911	Thank you, Madam Chairman, for that. I hope you will do your duty and maintain order and peace in the Assembly Hall while the MP is trying to distract us from being watched by people who are trying to survive one day in this hiducia, because the states obviously don't. I'm extremely glad the Minister of Justice is here. You're at the beginning of your term. I really appreciate you sitting here listening to what we have a chance to say. I am informing you of this opportunity for the SRS to launch a long-term campaign that will concern every single life in Serbia, even if we are being distanced from this pay phone. I'll pick up where Elena Christmas-Talian left off. I hope that it will also support colleagues from the ruling majority and from some opposition parties who once tried to deal with totalitarian journalism, so they had more guaranteed rights. On this occasion, I refer to the question of the Minister of Justice and to all the competent ministries – how long has it been since the discovery of the perpetrator of the beastly murder compared to Slavko Curuvija, compared to Mr Panic? What will be done to improve the atmosphere for all journalists who are trying objectively, but are only trying, since in Serbia it is an attempt, to inform certain events, to protect their safety, and, above all, freedom of thought and freedom of expression. From now on, every journalistic name, every name of members of any institution, especially the institutions of the MUP, who daily address the SRS parliamentary club from this Hyde Park, because we do not have another forum, unfortunately in democratic Serbia, will be directed, so that all citizens of Serbia from this moment on can count on SRS MPs to spend every minute and every second, at the cost of being expelled, punished, repeatedly warned, because there is no committee for the protection of human and minority rights in this house, to protect their rights in what is called life, and in fact is a slave relationship in Serbia that is under occupation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3912	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. He points out the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word over the line, as soon as he asks, on the basis of Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3913	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I'm calling for a member of the 100th, and I'm looking, based on an article. 225 and 226, explanation. Today, all media reports report that the Council of Europe has allowed Americans to take part in the illegal Eulex mission in Kosovo and Metohija aimed at implementing Marty Ahtisaari's plan on the so-called. Kosovo's independence, which has not been agreed in the UN's SB. The Americans want their members deployed in Kosovo and Metohija to have so-called. exclusive law i.e. the right not to comply with any laws other than laws in force in the United States. It is information that should irritate and worry not only this assembly, but also the government and all who live in Serbia, because what is illegal is not trying to prevent, but is even strengthening to members who come from America. You know that there were local elections in Kosovo and Metohija and that, in the principle of delegation, the Assembly of the Community of Kosovo and Metohija was formed. We expected this resolution on Kosovo and Metohija and that the resolution has some recommendation on how to behave the President of the Republic, how to behave the prime minister, how to behave ministers and what to expect Serbs in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Following the refusal, a group of 108 MPs asked to be on the agenda, and the government itself could not deliver the proposal, we sent two letters to the president, prime minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia. We are also looking for a reception to tell us what the Serbian government's policy towards Kosovo and Metohija is and what to expect when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. It is totally unserious to stick your head in the sand when an illegal mission is being carried out aimed at kidnapping a part of the territory from Serbia. It is unserious not only for this parliament, but for all politicians dealing with politics in Serbia. I therefore once again urge Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic to receive a delegation of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija to explain to them what it is that the government wants to do and to help Serbs in the area of Kosovo and Metohija to stay and survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3914	The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric. He points out the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets his word, based on article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3915	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, today, as reportedly, held a session of the Administrative Committee chaired by Mr Tomislav Nikolic. I believe that this act has violated the dignity of the National Assembly, which is why. At a session of the SRS MPs' club on September 9th, Tomislav Nikolic informed the SRS that he had lost our resignations. On the same day, two hours later, in the Assembly's statement to reporters, he reiterated the statement, explaining that the loss occurred as a result of oblivion. The result of this is the thesis that has been put to rest in both this home and the public -- that the resignations of the SRS MPs have been lost. However, that is not true and there is evidence for this, and evidence has given us specifically Mr Tomislav Nikolic. In an interview in "Politica", on September 12th, on the issue of a journalist on parliamentary mandates and resignations: "So you removed your resignations? "Mr. Nikolic says, "That's right." Five days ago, you witnessed Mr. Nikolic from the assembly pay phone saying, "My resignation is in my pocket." Based on these two statements, there is only one logical conclusion - that resignations are not lost, that resignations exist. These resignations are located in an unknown place, the place is known only to Mr Nikolic. On the legal and moral side, the thing is clear: Tomislav Nikolic is in possession of someone else's property without authority. In this particular case, the property of the SRS, the property of our MPs who have signed these resignations and property of Serbian citizens who have converted their electoral will into our mandates. For this reason, I believe that the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured by the fact that Tomislav Nikolic, as such, is chaired by the Administrative Committee, which is the most important committee in the Serbian Parliament. The next reason is absolutely not in line with the common sense and with the Constitution of Serbia, nor with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that MPs of the party who did not exist were involved in the work of the National Assembly when the last elections were held. I apologize, but it is completely out of common sense, let alone that the representative of that political party that did not exist, which is just giving birth, runs the most important assembly committee! The next thing you know, there has been practice, since there has been parliamentaryism in Serbia, that the Administrative Committee, meaning the strongest committee in the Serbian Parliament, has been led by a representative of the strongest opposition parties. In this case, it's the SRS. For that reason, I went out and called to advertise this Rules of Procedure. I apologize, I will ask Mrs Comic to allow me just to quote another statement by Mr Tomislav Nikolic about the parliamentary mandates. I would like to say from this pay phone that I am in favour of coming out of this legal collapse with respect to Tomislav Nikolic's attitude, means that we respect the position of Tomislav Nikolic. Here's what he says: "Did the Serbian Radical Party win 82 seats? Well, we have to have so much to do at any moment. Did Bogoljub Karic win some parliamentary post? It's not. So where did he get it? This is a simple matter, but this is a fundamental question for Serbia. We're at a turning point. I wouldn't give up on you... "(President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm sorry, another 10 seconds. "No matter how bad you think about politicians, insist on who is moral and who is not," Tomislav Nikolic said on May 19th 2005 from this pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3916	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. It highlights the breach of the Rules of Procedure and receives a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3917	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use Article 104, which is a violation of Parliament's dignity, Article 43, and the very fact that the Guardian of Citizens is present here, because I believe that, on the basis of what Marina Ragush, a fellow member of the Parliament, has been injured, therefore, by the dignity of the People's Parliament, and above all by the citizens we represent. Here's the thing. Article 43. The Rules of Procedure, with regard to Article 104 that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, provides for the education of permanent committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs Ragush said, although it is a common fact, I think we are the only member of the Council of Europe that does not have a Committee on Human and Minority Rights. We have a ministry, but our Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly is not adapted to the executive authority, i.e. amending and supplementing the laws on ministries and on the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Why am I telling you this, Mrs. Komic, and all the MPs and our public? To tell you and give you another argument as to the situation in our parliament, the kidnapping of parliamentary mandates, the instrumentisation of Tomislav Nikolic and his outlaw groups, see this Europe and above all the Parliamentary Assembly. Last week, during the regular autumn session, we members of the Serbian delegation met, on a proposal from Sladjana Price, our ambassador, with the Permanent Commissioner of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for Human and Minority Rights; this is a Swedish MP with a longstanding internship. We asked what the topic of the conversation was. We were told framely that he was coming for a planned visit in the autumn, so now in November, to Belgrade. He asked us a concrete question why we don't have (first they mislisted in that monitoring report, and we tabled an amendment, but it was removed from the agenda) of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights. counterpart Natasa Vuckovic tried to explain that it was covered by the work of some other committees, which cannot be covered by the work of other committees, because we must have a harmonised work of the legislative body and permanent committees with the existence of our ministries. I was not surprised, and I later told other members of the delegation and now to the public, in which way the Commissioner for Human and Minority Rights treated Tomislav Nikolic and this whole situation. In a reminder that his associates had next to them, here I am finishing, it said under point 2 that they were – it is a preparatory reminder, meaning the working text for their meeting, but I saw it eventually, because the gentleman was sitting next to me and the document was printed in English – in a delegation of Serbia present Serbian Radical Party MPs, from whom reformistly, as they wrote precisely in English, the wing of Tomislav Nikolic, pro-Western. Everything is clear to you, and to the citizens of Serbia, who is behind this, who is instrumentalised and who is working to break both the opposition and the Serbian Radical Party. And I hope, Mrs. Komic, as advocate of the objective and quality work of the National Assembly, that you will make your modest contribution to the education of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights. After all, wasn't that the main message of the Democratic Party before this election and the promise you made in both the circuit assembly and everywhere?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3918	National MPs, no injuries to Article 104 or Article 43. The establishment of the Committee of the National Assembly goes through amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I know that, like all of you, 249. So, when they are on the agenda of the National Assembly's amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is, of course, possible to submit a proposal to establish both the Committee on Human and Minority Rights. When that happens, if it hurts the procedure, then you could get the word, not now. The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, according to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, received a word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3919	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I would use my right to be members of 225 and 226 to ask some questions that I think we are all and how competent and authorized we are. We are all aware of the fact that for years, if not decades, public opinion has formed by desire and by measure of the West, great powers. But what we all swear to is freedom of information and the safety of journalists. Now I'm asking you, is there more at stake a journalist who can't say what he thinks and that he's doing what he needs to do and he's doing investigative journalism and he's coming to the truth or is he a journalist who's, like, beaten, hit and stuff? I think they're equally threatened both. And that handful of journalists who exist today in Serbia who give themselves the right to work professionally and to do so in the national interest is much for the state of Serbia. That handful needs to be choked so it can't be heard, so let's threaten. Who found himself threatening? Alibaba and 20 heiduks. Really people, which is a lot, it's a lot. It is that the money is there, it is that the regime is there to help, but the regime has already gone some way and realized something they're saying. They say they're threatening the DS. When I say they, I mean Alibaba and these hidukes. That may be true, but only because the West has now played in Alibab, not Boris Tadic. Very soon, Boris Tadic will sink with that stone around his neck if he allows the truth to choke in Serbia like this and make such a media darkness, as it is now done. Let the whole public know, these threats were directed to certain people, and we're saying this to protect both these TVs and those journalists whose threats were addressed, so let them watch what they're doing, we know they're ready for anything, we know them well.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3920	The People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic has the word. Recitals the breach of the Rules of Procedure and receives a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. There is no such thing as reporting to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3921	I'm reporting for damage to Rules of Procedure 225, 226...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3922	People's MP, are you reporting for a violation of the Rules of Procedure or not? You told me you weren't answering after the Rules of Procedure, so you got your word. Please return to your seat. After you came forward, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament of the People of Marina Ragush. She gets a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3923	I really hope again, Madam Chairman, that you will perform your duties and maintain order and peace in the O.R. I'm reporting from the injury, by the members of 225 and 226. What really concerns the SRS in the past few years is that the promised establishment of democratic principles and the normal atmosphere in society (this is a question for all relevant ministries, especially the Ministry of Justice) has no notice. The followers of the seventh power, as well as members of other professions concerning publicly spoken truths, are really in big trouble because they are going to blame someone who has enough money to pay for some who are going to beat them up on the street or, God forbid, kill them. So what is currently happening in Serbia is that one television station, which is Palma Television, and one journalist, and this is Mrs Olivera Miletovic, is threatened, that their basic rights are compromised, that they are at risk of security and security. It's just amazing, here I can't even believe myself, that this is what I'm talking about to members of the ruling majority and asking the competent ministries to do everything in their power. First, to protect the people mentioned; to bring Colonel Mancic Zlatan back to work because the judiciary has spoken to her and the executive is deaf about it; to protect all of us and the dignity of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to slowly but surely introduce order into this hiducia that we are trying to present whenever we can as a state. What is very important, we are not subject to factions in parliament, we are subject to the ruling majority. This really is a serious test for members of the ruling majority and for members of the government. So, you're going to fall on that exam or you're going to pass it. People who listen to this every day have problems. The job in Belgrade cannot be done unless you are close to the ruling majority. They can't protect their fundamental rights unless they know someone in local self-government. So the whole system of normative principles is done and put aside. We are here, I told you today, to start a campaign where we will name and last name very loudly to mention the names of all those people who can't live the life of a decent man here in Serbia. Also, we will fight for the rights of all those families that have been expelled from the territory of Croatia, the former BiH, for all those heirs of 6,635 killed Serbs in Sarajevo, 3,287 killed Serbs in Srebrenica during the period of wars. Why? Because the ruling majority did not allow this to be discussed within the Committee on the Protection of Human and Minority Rights, because it did not open the media for all of us and because this is what burdens a very large number of people. I'm sorry I overstepped my time with the Rules of Procedure, and I'm gonna try not to do it again. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3924	The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, utters a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and receives a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3925	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to ask you a question from the Minister of the Interior. Because you know very well that after the Five-Octobar Revolution, the mob came to power. In fact, MPs of the Democratic Party, that's the extended arm of the mafia. But they didn't stop there, they wanted to form another political party under the leadership of some people who were waste from all other political parties. Unfortunately, here you see, one political party has been formed these days whose president, or is called on to be the president, citizen Tomislav Nikolic. I'm not going to mention his name anymore, because I'm going to call him Mr. Waste Number One. And, of course, "Mr. Waste Number Two." You well know who these people are, who are the biggest actors in Serbia today. All along their existence in the Serbian Radical Party, they have been published for people who are patriots, honorable and honest, who love and respect Serbian citizens. You've seen, this act of theirs can't last long; they call on certain citizens who come to them to seek help, they appear as benefactors, as people who want to help them, but forget... They say the SRS can't help them, and they can help them, as if they left a few years ago, but it seems, as I said today on the Administrative Committee, that they were never even members of the Serbian Radical Party. What is further interesting and what should be said is that this "waste number one" today showed its value on the Administrative Committee when it was unable to answer certain questions of Serbian Radical Party MPs. He couldn't answer what he once called for, morale, dignity, because now he became one of the biggest thieves and criminals in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3926	I ask the MPs, since I have not been able to fulfil my business duty to MP Srboljub Zivanovic, because he has neither asked a question nor expressed a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I am asking that when calling on Article 104 and Article 100, we apply the same thing when we address the National Assembly and that we do not abuse the Rules of Procedure when calling on the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miroslav Markicevic utters a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so MP Sladjan Mijaljevic also utters a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3927	Dear Vice-Presidents, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, I appeal to the 100th member in relation to Article 226. I'm looking for some notices that are important to my function as MP. I remind all of you and the citizens of Serbia that tomorrow should begin the heated season in the state of Serbia on a calendar basis. Good luck, so we'll have a few more days of warm weather. Of course everyone knows what it is that I want to ask and ask you, as vice president, to use your authority and give us all a heads-up on what motivated the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make a decision to collect the price of gas per cubicity of 59.9%. The silence of the ruling coalition MPs cannot be interpreted differently but as a sign of approval. The fact that you lie down on us in the halls, baptize and wonder as we do, that means nothing to the citizens of Serbia. I want to remind you that energy prices, even gas, are falling on the global stock market, only in the state of Serbia, are rising by how much - 60%. It's just an incomprehensible decision. I don't know who can explain this to the citizens, who have been practically led to use gas as energy to heat their apartments and houses in the past few years. These are state programs at municipal and city levels. Many citizens have raised loans to buy gas boilers and at this point have an increase of 60%, without any explanation. For heating through remote systems is an increase of 38%. Imagine, the decision is completely technically inconclusive and inapplicable, as there is a regulation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia that local municipal enterprises dealing with housing and public institutions cannot raise the price more than 6% annually. So other than being unreasonable, except that we believe that we are not in 1992 and 1993, when inflation was what it was, this decision is practically inapplicable. Warm-up systems are compromised, so citizens don't know what to do except feel cheated, especially pensioners, Mr. Colakovic. I expect you to come out here. Only with this decision have they reduced their pensions by 30%; we will now, of course, increase their 15%. Please take advantage of your authority and ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I do not really speak to the party, to reconsider this decision, because we already have decisions of the City Assembly, as we have a decision of the City Assembly in Cacca, where the Government of Serbia is asked to reconsider this decision. It is simply incomprehensible at the moment when the global economic crisis is and we expect, as some economists and analysts say, this wave of crisis that, thank God, has not yet hit our country. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. I'm sorry, ten more seconds. If it's a problem, I'll hang up and get back to you. So I'm asking you not to be like last time I asked you a question and that's how it goes, I'm looking for an explanation, and I'm asking for the formation of a survey board. I expect the support and MPs of the ruling coalition, as gas is being heated and citizens who voted for the ruling coalition's parties, to at least give a reasonable explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3928	I ask the National Assembly's service to deliver a stenogram of presentation of MP Miroslav Markevic to the competent ministry and to send the competent minister and the government information to the MP and the National Assembly. The information must contain an explanation for the decision to collect. I would like the MP to tell me, because of the stenogram, whether he agrees that the information contains an explanation of the decision on the collection and possibility of amending that decision and that the competent ministry and the government deliver it to you and the National Assembly. Is that okay? Yeah. ) National MP Sladjan Mijaljević points out the violation of the Rules of Procedure and receives a word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3929	Members of 225 and 226, and I call on Article 40. Given that during the last year or two days in Vojvodina, interesting events are taking place that people who care about their country are calling for greater caution, I suggest that the Serbian Parliament form a first committee, and if it is a faster subcommittee, then the Security Committee of the Serbian Assembly for the Protection of the Constitutional Order in Vojvodina as a province (and we already have a Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, which has been formed because of the events that have been happening there over the last 15 years), so that we do not come into a situation to complain about that part of the territory. So we should warn the events and form these subcommittees and committees earlier, because there are certain indications that something similar is being prepared in Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3930	National MP, the establishment of a subcommittee is a subject for the work of each individual committee, and so is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The meeting of the Committee shall be convened on a proposal from the Chair of the Committee or the Rules of Procedure of a number of members, so that, as far as the ideas you have presented are concerned, you can present your proposal at the Committee's session, when and if it is scheduled. The word for the violation of the Rules of Procedure has the People's Messenger Momir Markovic, and the People's Messenger Petar Jojic, and the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3931	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today in this house, the dignity of the National Assembly has been severely injured at the session of one of the most important committees, at the session of the Administrative Committee. A man who, by unfortunate circumstances, presides over this committee has absolutely given himself the right to treat the MPs and the members of the Committee even in the ultimate, let me say, primitive way. Unfortunately, it seems to be overrun here and in the halls and in the means of information, because what's happened now, this threat that's harshly and publicly spoken to those journalists who still have the courage to say "pop pop, bob," and some that they're thieves, it seems to mean that that last light should be turned off. I think the National Assembly had to take a stand. In doing so, I do not ask other MPs, I ask the DS MPs, because it is up to them to decide, it is up to them to remove that burden from their doors; I will not ask the G17, I will not ask the SPS, because now some new ones have appeared who are ready to be strikers, as said in that previous term, one who is now ready to spray this government and for much less public enterprises, for a much less function will do so. Therefore, the negotiating G17 and SPS ratings will fall drastically, as Boris Tadic will likely find a cheaper servant. By the time I've heard from you, I'm asking the Minister of Justice... Madam Minister, Miss Minister, I'm speaking to you, you might want to look at it, at least if you're listening. Don't advocate the minister, please. Some courts have begun to harshly violate the Law on Local Elections, a member of 47 who is resolute, incomparable. They began to return to the decision-making of those who had not decided before and therefore came to the district court. I ask you to send the district courts, and you can do so as a minister, a request to strictly respect the Law on Local Elections and to strictly respect a member of the 47th Law. Otherwise, we'll be in a position where the Supreme Court will have to discuss these judges acting as they do. And, I'm asking, if the judge so harshly violates the law, is it a place for that judge in that court, at all, in the judiciary and how much does it cost?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3932	National MP, Snezana Malovic is headed by the Ministry of Justice. If we already have a silent agreement to allow the abuse of article 100 to be applied to the giving of words, then at least in reporting we should use the data and facts this National Assembly deserves. So we don't have the Justice Department. I could conclude that now the MP has broken the Rules of Procedure and brought down the dignity of the National Assembly, since it is understood that at least we know what our ministries are in the government, which we love to control. As for infringements of the Rules of Procedure at meetings of the Committee of the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be applied at meetings of the Committee of the National Assembly as at the meeting of the National Assembly. That request for breach of the Rules of Procedure must be highlighted there, not here. If you wanted to... National MP Zoran Krasic insists the MP has escaped. Please express yourself politely. The MP has the right to leave the session for his other business. National MP Momir Markovic could, on the basis of Article 27, ask the Assembly to declare a breach of the Rules of Procedure which he considers to have been done at a session of the Committee on Administrative Affairs. The word has been given by MP Petar Jojic, points out the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets the word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3933	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in terms of the provisions of Articles 225 and 226, I would like to ask a question, and also to inform the MPs and citizens of the Pancheva municipality. Last Friday, the Environment Protection Committee held a meeting in Pancheva, in the town of Pancheva. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Secretariat for the Protection of the Environment from Novi Sad. When we had the interview at the SO we went to Petrochemy, a factory that has seven plants. We've come across such evidence, such a wasteland, such war poisons that I have lived for so many years, since 1960, in Panchev, I couldn't believe that such a thing existed in Petrochemia. Then it is no wonder that the citizens of the municipality of Pancheva and the city of Pancheva die of various, most severe diseases, especially cancers. We found swimming pools in a wastewater factory where you can't last five minutes. It's all open and the movement of air pollutes the environment and poisons the people of Panchev. When we saw that, there were attempts to cover up some plants and some olympic ones, so to speak, pools where these toxins are found. We found cars and waste wagons that are extremely dangerous for the citizens of Panchev, and I tell you, it is dangerous for the citizens of Belgrade. After a tour and a stay at the Petrochemy factory, whose plants are located on a 100-ha surface, we tried to reach the Panchev oil refinery. However, we are told that the chairman of the Management Board does not allow the Environment Protection Committee to visit the Panchev oil refinery. I ask the question and ask the answer, Madam Chairman, I ask the Serbian Government to answer - who is the chairman of the Management Board who has banned the people's representatives who have come to Panchevo from helping citizens prevent this disaster and the extinction of a city... Who is this man who forbade the MPs, headed by the chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection, to visit the factory and to make sure of the catastrophic state of power and that the responsible persons... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, I'm telling you that the total area where the Rafineria and Petrochemy are 300 ha, you've got the battle poisons you've got cars without anyone answering so far. I'm informing the Republic Public Prosecutor, if you'll allow me, Madam Chairman, just a few more seconds, to form a commission, to hear this time that Panc's is a disaster... (President: four minutes. )......................................................................................................... The responsibility is to commit serious crimes against the citizens of Panchev and that it is necessary for someone to finally respond and to be in prison for not taking any action to protect the environment and to improve the life of our citizens in the Pancheva municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3934	Your question can only be forwarded to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Urbanism. The MP says the ministry is unable to do anything. Who do you want to ask then? Make up your mind, as MP Dragan Todorovic says we should refer a question to Gandarmeria and MP Petar Jojic to the Republic Public Prosecutor. Therefore, MPs Dragan Todorovic and Petar Jojic are asking for the question to be addressed to Zandarmeria and the Republic Public Prosecutor who is the chairman of the Refinery Management Board in Pancev. The MP says criminal proceedings are under way. And you and I both know we can't ask the Republic Public Prosecutor to do that, not in this way. The word is according to the Rules of Procedure, based on Article 100(1), MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3935	Mrs. Komic, I am pleased that you are showing a high degree of tolerance in the application of the Rules of Procedure, because you have concluded that this is really necessary at this time. At first, I would only ask you to take a good look at the Rules of Procedure with the Secretary of the National Assembly and to establish that there is also an appropriate provision in the Rules of Procedure that allows the National Assembly to oblige the Government of the Republic of Serbia to prepare an appropriate report for the National Assembly session. I think the National Assembly is obliged to apply that provision of the Rules of Procedure because the National Assembly cannot be a place where something is legalized that is contrary to the current life. We cannot allow the National Assembly to discuss the laws, which is our obligation, that is our jurisdiction, and that the current things, important to the everyday life of our citizens, go undetected. Thus, the National Assembly gives up its rights and obligations and leaves to columnists and different types of people to simply poison space through the media. Here, let me make it concrete. The issue of Kosovo and Metohija, a significant issue, you avoided -- we got a slap. The issue of the financial situation, the economic situation, the social misery in the country, you avoided -- we got two slaps. The question of where is our border, where is our country? We got an even bigger slap. It also comes with something that rightly calls a good part of the public the decommissioning of Serbia and some autonomous tendencies in Vojvodina. We had meetings, allegedly fascists and anti-fascists, so our anti-fascists were Canak and Srdjan Milivojevic. Srdjan Milivojevic, who burned down the Assembly. How can an antifascist fire the Assembly? There are many questions that ask an answer. Of course, and this question that Mr Markicevic just asked about this increase in gas prices, but I get the impression that his question here is being floated by the system – so what do you want, Markicevic, that decision is democratic. In this country everything that is important and which requires urgent resolution is hitched thanks to someone who has made a decision – it is a democratic decision, you have to put up with it. I don't want to spread this subject right now. I would only ask you to ensure, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the agreement with the presidents of legal political parties, legal political groups, not these savages, that a session is requested from the Government to formulate such agenda where very important issues would be considered, and that neither the Assembly enters the authority of the Government nor the Government enters the authority of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3936	Time, three minutes and 30 seconds. The session you are talking about and which represents a session asking parliamentary questions to individual ministers, to all ministers, to the Prime Minister or to the entire government, is scheduled at the request of each of the parliamentary groups. I currently have no information that any parliamentary group has applied for an appointment of that session. Such sessions where MPs ask questions are common in parliaments, are good for parliament, are good for the government. There's really no reason why such a session should not be scheduled. If it's our silent agreement to abuse the Rules of Procedure instead of that session, it's not good for anyone. I hope that we will have a clear initiative on the appointment of a session and the presence of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because all institutions in Serbia, society in Serbia can only benefit, and we can fulfill our basic function, which is -- the control of the government's work. The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić. Recitals the breach of the Rules of Procedure and receives a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3937	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use the presence of the Justice Minister to ask what many ask, especially municipal courts – when will the MPs receive concrete material on whether or not they are abolished or become district courts according to the law and a network of courts made? Will the People's Messengers also receive these schemes? Because many judges, including citizens, are livingly interested in it and there has been general panic in municipal courts. That's a specific question. The second question is, I want to take this opportunity... We know that the president of the state received the prestigious Quadriga Prize on October 3rd (but that October 5th was Friday rather than Sunday, he would probably get it on October 5th), they said, for bold political decisions and unwaveringness. Is it true that this prize is $100,000? My question is, will it give it to charity, will it belong to the state or will it keep it to itself? It's official data. Since I personally received a letter concerning previous talks and criticisms sent by Vukic to the SRS parliamentary group, I am obliged to read it for Serbia's citizens. It arrived at the MP's club a few minutes ago, and it's specifically about Alexander Vukic. It says literally like this: "Alexandre Vukic, until the other day you were a child in the middle of a gathering around Dr Vojislav Seselj... " (President: People's Parliament, I ask you to stick to making demands. I'm hanging in there. Here, I'm good for the pay phone. (President: Hold on to the pay phone because you were allowed to approach the speaker, because the chairman allowed you to do so. No one is allowed to approach the speaker until the chairman decides, and that's why you're behind the pay phone. I'm asking you to stick to the provisions, for as long as possible. You've applied to Article 225. After you received your word because you said a breach of the Rules of Procedure you asked questions. Reading of private letters within the framework of Art. 225 and 226 are serious violations of the reputation of the National Assembly. I'm asking you not to. Thanks for the warning. I'm obliged, if most citizens want it, if it's signed by hundreds of people who sent the letter and I represent those citizens, to read their opinion of what you said half an hour or an hour ago. I think I'm a member of the People's Party and I'm bound to read it. If you forbid it, all right, it speaks of you, not of me, and the citizens will give their judgment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3938	I do not forbid you; it forbids you the decree of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to which you have called. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, a statement of violation of the Rules of Procedure, and gets word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3939	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Article 104 of Article 100, as you said, and Article 64. I really have to react for everything I've heard in the last hour. The moment our Secretary General, Ms. Elena Christmas-Talian, spoke, messages arrived from citizens who are very upset about what is happening today in Serbia. Now, on the basis of these members and on the basis of Article 225, I am asking the authorities – is there a reasonable possibility that the people of Jagodina are afraid? Because, as things stand, it is obvious that Tomislav Nikolic will ask or ask US Ambassador Manter to send U.S. Marines to Jagodin. There's Palm Plus TV in Jagodina. On TV "Palma Plus" every Saturday is a show called "The Questions and Answers", which is governed and led by one of the people of Serbia's journalism, Mrs Olivera Miletovic, a brave, educated and determined woman who is the aspect of what we are as a people, of everything that has prevailed over the Serbian people, not only here but in all Serbian countries, the sufferings that ordinary people have spoken of by a colleague of Ragush, but also Serbian giants and those who defend the interests of Serbs, like our president... She is experiencing such insults and threats, which we have heard of by counterpart Avramovic, as well as Mr Dragan Markovic's messages, that someone will shut him down. I really can't believe this is all happening today in 2008. It is obvious that these people who thus threaten journalists and Mr Markovic respond to the media darkness in Serbia. You know, when he joined the SRS and from Kragujevac he set out for Belgrade, Tomislav Nikolic knew to turn on his black and white television. He has a plasma television across the wall today and is likely to be suited to media darkness, which he will create for unspeakable journalists and those who dare to talk about his robberies and abductions. In the dark, it's the best way to fly, it's muddy with tycoons, it's making houses, it's making fairies, it's sending a message to the citizens. And we'll use every opportunity from this pay phone to... Such people do not pay attention anywhere, not in any media, let alone the honorary journalists of the profession speak of them and mention them in any, not in a negative, context similar to Oliveri Miletovic. I really see where things have gone, and how much hysteria has prevailed in the heads of those people whose money is huge, and the ones they robbed from our party and the millions they've gotten in their accounts and in their pockets, hit their heads and created some vision of power and power, how they can be dealt with everywhere and in every place with those who don't. I expect that, in the end, I will make the citizens laugh a little bit – if it were not regrettable, it would be funny that the US ambassador to the Roman spaghetti Western, called "For a Hand of Dollars," will offer Tomislav Nikolic the main role.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3940	The letter of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radet, utters a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3941	Mrs. Comic, I'm not saying that the Rules of Procedure has been broken, but, on the basis of Article 100, I want to talk about the breach of this Rules of Procedure. That's what it says, and I ask you to speak as it says in the Rules of Procedure, and your arbitrary expressions and observations really can't listen anymore. That doesn't make sense. You have in the last 29 minutes and 19 seconds four times violated the most cruel Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, two times Article 104. The first time a colleague commented on something about the ministry. You said that he was a colleague, and counterpart Momir Markovic was concerned, violated the dignity of the National Assembly in line with Article 104, because as a MP, he does not know which ministries in the Serbian government exist. It's inadmissible, Mrs. Comic. Article 27, which speaks of what your responsibilities are as chairman of the current, or responsibilities of the president, does not give you the right anywhere to judge the Members of Parliament. A few minutes later, you told your colleague Jojic that you would deliver a stenogram of what he was saying to the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Mrs. Komic, if a colleague Markovic has violated the dignity of the National Assembly and violated Article 104, then so have you. Such a ministry in the Serbian government does not exist. So first, you learn what you want to draw attention to the MPs, and you have no right, and here I will remind you of all the MPs, Article 27: "The President of the National Assembly is doing the work provided for in the Constitution, chairing the meetings of the National Assembly, taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, taking care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly, doing other tasks foreseen by the law and this Rules of Procedure." So it doesn't say anywhere that you can say that the MP broke Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly did not respect the dignity of the National Assembly because it did not purposely say something wrong because it knows or does not know something. You have no such authority and, please, stop giving us lectures; these lectures have nothing to do with what your powers are for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So, you just wanted to stop me like you were a colleague of Sladjan Myaljevic's when he said he didn't want to express his injury to the Rules of Procedure. You drove him off the phone, you didn't let him say what I just said - I'm not pointing out the injury, but I want to talk about the injury of this Rules of Procedure. So, you broke the Rules of Procedure when you took myaljevic away from here because you read his thoughts and you assessed what he wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3942	The 59th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment with the correction legally possible. You'll get the word for breaking the Rules of Procedure. The last one on the list was the People's Parliament of the Witch of Radeta. As soon as I finish reading for article 59, you'll get your word on the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3943	Mrs. Comic, I'm really surprised you didn't notice me. Your assistant registered that I signed up, but fine. You've surprised me, I've been so tolerated, so parliamentary, so I've even turned to a merciful tone to draw your attention that you need to look at the Rules of Procedure and see that there is a provision of Rules that allows, apart from considering the bill, budgets, etc., the Assembly also realizes something called life activity. I would ask you, since you didn't understand me for the first time, to take the Rules of Procedure and to look at Article 218(2), says: "The government reports to the National Assembly when the National Assembly asks for it or by its own initiative and at least once a year." I asked that people who run the National Assembly, the president, vice president and president of parliamentary groups, legal and legitimate, hold a meeting, agree and request a report through the National Assembly to be a special point for the government to provide us with a report on these life issues. It is for nothing that the Assembly deals with energy prices in three months; it is for free that the Assembly is dealing with the issue of recognition of independence by Montenegro and Macedonia for three months; it is for free that we are dealing with issues of pensioners, children issues, students over several months, when it is current today. If we don't want to talk about it because most people don't want to talk about it, does that mean that all the decisions that regulate it today are democratic, right, right? At the same time, you create a large space for certain cloudy, dark types, with the urge to commit crimes, which are capable of listening to all talks in Serbia, threatening people by phone, even some people who have nothing to do with any party. At the same time, there is a debate here on the draft law on a person, and the dots are not valid, as if nothing had happened, everything is ideal, everything is nice, and in the paper you read transcripts of phone conversations between two people. We've now learned a great deal about how to protect the name and last name, gender, proclivity, etc., and the newspaper is turning away from the transcripts of secretly recorded conversations. Just to remind you, from the SPS, do you remember the transcript of the talks between Zarko Obradovic and Zoran Lilic? It's become a practice today, it's no longer an exception. It's become a practice, and you in a nice, chamber atmosphere talk about a law on the protection of personal data and everyone closes their eyes that everyone listens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3944	National MP Zoran Krasic knows as well as I and the other 249 MPs that the topics he wanted to talk about as a breach of the Rules of Procedure are the subjects of article 59. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or individual committees for which MPs are interested in discussing topics of interest, life, and the Assembly must work on the agenda. Since we didn't understand that tolerance for giving words is, in fact, abuse of Rules of Procedure, I really ask that we begin to respect this National Assembly by not abusing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. He utters a violation of the Rules of Procedure and wishes to speak of it, Mr. People's MP Suleiman Spaho, received his word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3945	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 225 and Article 226. I am speaking to the Minister of Police and I am looking for an explanation, which is why: on several occasions in the Loznica Parliament I was talking about the abuse of the position of public defender in Loznica and several officials of the Municipality of Loznica, Vukmirović Mirjana, and it is about several places that they have adopted in some way. What's important is that since 2001, these joints have been under locks, and you don't even know who the owners are. In some ways, I found that all these locals are municipal bars, taken from the workers "Drina", only to get the place after the law was passed on the return of property to Mrs Mirjana Vukmirovic. I'm asking the authorities to let me know as soon as possible. Believe me, there is no solution in the archives of the Municipality of Loznica. Afterwards, all the solutions stood with the public defender, so local self-government officials did not know it was the property of the municipality until the SRS municipal board made it public. I'm asking the authorities to check it out as soon as they can and see who's responsible for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3946	National MP Momir Markovic utters a violation of the Rules of Procedure and wants to talk about it. He gets a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3947	I am re-advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. The breach of the Rules of Procedure has been happening for a long time, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right here in the National Assembly, and we are the messengers who are obliged to safeguard the dignity of the National Assembly. However, you, ma'am, as the first among the equals, would be the second, because the first Mrs. President, could be a little bit more of an account to take about it. I'm sorry, Madam Minister, I was thinking of the Justice Department, but I was thinking specifically about the Justice Department's affairs, so I misrepresented myself or the chairman misunderstood me, now it doesn't matter. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how much tomorrow we're going to discuss a bill called a law on the confiscation of property arising from a crime. The crime committed by a citizen was theft of resignations, theft of parliamentary mandates. The parliamentary mandates are the property of the Serbian Radical Party. If we vote this law tomorrow, the law will enter into force eight days from the day of the vote in the National Assembly, the SRS will ask for this law to be applied and the parliamentary mandates that are property of the Serbian Radical Party to be returned to the Serbian Radical Party. Madam Chairman, will you, acting exactly by the law that we are going to vote on tomorrow, return the mandates to the party to whom they belong or you will continue this group of citizens, who by the logic of things, and only when you call them, should they sit as an interested public at the gallery, not in parliamentary benches... That's why I think you'd have to start respecting the dignity of the National Assembly first, and put people who aren't MPs away from the O.R. or, at best, by them, put them on the gallery.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3948	As part of the National Assembly, there are no people who are not MPs, and all have the same rights and responsibilities that arise from the status of the People's Parliament. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is pronounced and wishes to be spoken of by MP Momcilo Duvnjak and received word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3949	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the legal basis for my reporting are members of 225 and 226. I'm asking the D.O.D. about the cause of this 60 percent gas-gauge. You of the ruling coalition have taken very seriously the MPs who asked today about the 60% gas collection. This is a direct blow and a robbery of Serbian citizens. I'll show you in the figures how much this is: for a household that has a 50-square apartment so far, the price of gas cubes was 25 dinars; they spent an average of 250 metres of cubic gas, and that was about 6,200 dinars. Now the price of gas for households, according to this collection, is about 40 dinars. We need to talk here about numbers so the citizens of Serbia know what's ahead of them. Now the price for 50 square meters is about 10,000 dinars, so you see what the difference is when we know that the heating season lasts at least five months and that the distance heating price is, depending on the municipality to the municipality and the city to the city, for 50 meters square to 2,500 dinars. So far you've been telling us that gas is the most important heating energy, that it's the best, the most modern. That's true, but it's not good that you did this with the gas collection. We had a gas deal that was brought in; if we say that the pipeline is going to be going through about four million cubic metres a year, recalculate what the price is, and in a year it's going to go 20 million cubic metres through that new pipeline. In the town of Krusevec, we brought one price for the gas connection, the lowest in Serbia, of 495 euros per household. It is the lowest price of gas in Serbia and Vojvodina. The company "Srbigas", as a monopoliest, will publicly say from this pay phone, did not allow us to form a mixed company -- "Srbigas", strategic partner and the town of Kruševac. We wanted to do it so that we could, as the town of Kruševac, buy that part of the network he held until a year ago, "Srbigas". We were ready to pay 500,000 euros, the highest price possible for 17km of gas network, as they did in three years. The strategic partner did it in less than a year 47km of gas network in Kruševec. There are data, and DS people at the bar supported the SRS Municipal Committee's initiative in Krusevec and the lowest gas connection price in Serbia was established. In the end, I won't go too far, just to say, the citizens took credit, they were cheated by the government... (President: You've already timed out, MP, three minutes 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... with banks, Raiffeisen, in order to get complete heating equipment, gas boilers, and for 50 square meters for the house, it takes about 3,500 euros, with a gas boiler and heating equipment. Look what you've done, gentlemen of the ruling majority, with the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3950	National MP, the same question was asked by MP Miroslav Markicevic. I ask the service to attach a stenogram to the presentation of the People's MP Momčil Duvnjak, and based on the use of the article. 225 and 226. The People's MP Milorad Buha utters a violation of the Rules of Procedure and wants to speak, gets a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3951	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few days ago I asked the government here a question based on the members of 225 and 226, what the government did in terms of the protection of the human rights of the Hague indictees. Unfortunately, I didn't get the answer. Given that there is a Justice Minister present here, the Citizens' Protector has left, I will now ask, in accordance with the members of 225 and 226, the question of the Justice Minister and the Citizens' Protector what they have done to protect the human rights of all Hague indictees, and in particular Milan Martic, a citizen of Serbia, the president of Republika Srpska Krajina, a man who received 35 years in prison in the first degree, in the second-degree procedure, the measure was confirmed to him. The provisions of international law, the General Declaration of Human Rights, the European Declaration of Human Rights and Freedoms have been severely violated. The government, the Ministry, the Protector of Citizens, we all have to do everything we can to help him and everyone else. Why am I saying that? Because there is a coincidence between high-ranking EU, US officials and all those who have a dominant role in the world and who have already announced the verdicts five and seven years ago. I will mention Peter Galbrate, the ambassador, among other things, and here in Serbia; when he was an ambassador to Croatia, he said that 80% of Serbs, 15% of Croats and 5% of Muslims should sit on the UN tribunal's indictment bench. That these figures are not a coincidence is also the following: so far, the Serbs indicted in The Hague tribunal have been sentenced to 947 years in prison, which exactly fits 80%. That's not an accident. What was carried out in the court proceedings clearly states that it was a conspiracy against the Serbian people. What was done to Milan Martic is not only the verdict of Milan Martic, but also the Serbian people. The chairman of the council asked one witness to explain the essence of the conflict; he was not satisfied with the answer and said, "Why did you not leave the Republic of Serbia at the time of the conflict with the Croats, i.e. the Republic of Croatia and there would be no dispute, why did you act as a remethyling factor in Croatia?" You see how one court is acting. This court is not objective. This court is a phantom court and this assembly must take a stand on this matter. We must do as the Russian Duma has done, seeking to shut down The Hague tribunal, review all the disputes that followed and which were before The Hague tribunal. On the other hand, I ask and insist that this congregation... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... finishing... must insist on calling a peace conference, which is also common in international law. When a war conflict occurs in certain areas, it is organised by the international community, in this case by the UN organisation, a peace conference that resolves all issues. In the case of Republika Srpska and the conflict in Croatia... (President: Four minutes:)... There was no peace conference. The assembly must advocate calling a peace conference to resolve all issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3952	The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic, utters a violation of the Rules of Procedure and wants to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3953	I'm reporting under Article 226, that's quite enough. There is one single position, which reads: "The MP has the right to request notices or explanations from the president of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations on issues covered by the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, and which he needs to exercise the role of the MP. "Article 225 states: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP. "I want to point to two things. The first is that a few days ago, DSS MPs, we submitted a bill on amendments and additions to the Deposit Insurance Act. We have done so, proposing that the security amount be increased from 3,000 euros to 20,000 euros when it comes to citizens' deposits, to show that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing nothing on this issue, to face the global economic crisis, that it knocks on the door of all countries that are regionally or geographically linked to major financial flows that bring Europe and the EU and the United States together, because that is not the case and that these reactions are unnecessary, the Government of Croatia would not have decided the other day to increase the guaranteed amount of deposits to 50,000 euros. First of all, I am interested, and we have not seen Prime Minister Cvetkovic and Finance Minister on the Finance Committee, except for the governor of the National Bank, which is correct, whether or not the Government has debated and when it thinks that the bill that has been tabled here is being discussed, so that at least in this indirect way we can get an answer to the question whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia has any internal capacity to deal with the problems we are talking about here. That's the first thing. The second thing, I am interested, since today is the meeting of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, and what they are discussing today is the draft statute of the AP Vojvodina, which will certainly, according to Article 185. The constitution, to come to the previous consensus in the National Assembly, and given the various stories that have been heard in public these days, could be interpreted as possible, given that the draft statute itself, which we all had the opportunity to see, is deeply opposed and that the ruling majority in Vojvodina, and thus also in the Serbian Assembly, decided to cast as a frontline frontline frontline frontline frontline frontline to LSV Nenada Chanka, who allegedly claim that this proposal of the Statute is not good because it is not sufficiently anti-constitutional, it is the main defence of their thesis, so I guess we need to create the impression that the ruling majority is doing something that is in accordance with the Constitution, which is obviously not true, but that on the side... So, in Article 185. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia writes: "The status of the autonomous province brings its assembly, with the previous consent of the National Assembly. "So, what were the stories? That there will be some declaration of the Statute of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, that we will be presented with the adopted draft statute, which is being discussed today, about the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, etc. To clarify this matter, I think that today, while we are working, we can get through you very specific information whether the majority and president of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina are intending to honor Article 185. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia position 2, at least, if they have no intention of respecting other provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3954	National MP, you have called on members 226 and 225. For information, these members are from the area of law and duty, not the procedure that takes place during this session, so that I can only refer you to Article 199(2) and submit a request on behalf of your parliamentary group for a session where individual ministers and government, the Prime Minister, will answer questions and your question about what they are doing in the area of interest. As for the bill that you have entered into the Assembly, and you know as well as I how the draft laws come into the agenda, you know that you have submitted the bill during this session and that we have a business opportunity only for appointments and resolutions during the regular session, not for additions to the agenda once the majority of the votes have been adopted. Your question about whether or not the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia will be respected is a question that makes no sense. No one wonders whether or not they will respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution has respect and application in relation to all members and all bodies, organisations mentioned in the Constitution, as well as the Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. He's giving up. The word is once again by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3955	Thank you. This time, Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which refers to session management. The session certainly includes your right to, according to another member of the Rules of Procedure, answer the question raised here in the event of an explosion which is why we believe that the Rules of Procedure has been injured when we report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, I respect your right to respect and respect what you've said. So, indeed, in Article 199, it says that "electoral matters are being asked, as a rule, after the National Assembly has completed its work on all points of the agenda. The National Assembly, in addition, may, without a search, set a second time for asking parliamentary questions," and so on. There is a second view that the president of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the parliamentary group, will at least once a month determine the day when individual ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia will answer parliamentary questions about an actual topic. I agree, it does say. However, we cannot ignore the fact that Article 226 states something about the rights of the MPs, with no other provision, the provision of Article 226, which I have already quoted before, so I have no intention of now, to shorten this time of procedure, in which it writes something that is not different but only complementary to what it says in Article 199 and each other does not rule out... Therefore, if this is written in Article 226, we have the right to react in the way we react. I expect to get an answer on both of the questions I've asked through you. How it will be, in what form, you will see, given your possibilities, how you will reach the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. I explained that this has to do with Article 225 of Article 1, because it is a matter of interest in our work, we must give prior consent to the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. When it comes to the conduct of the Serbian Government in relation to a truly current and current event, this session at which we would ask these questions may be scheduled and we will certainly follow your advice and we will propose holding such a session in the coming days. This is a matter of urgency, which is why I thought it was very important that the people I mentioned, which is primarily by the functions of the Prime Minister and Finance Minister, come to the Committee on Finance (so I don't even ask them to come before the session of the Serbian Parliament) and talk there about the measures that the Government of Serbia thinks is taking to defend the financial system of the Republic of Serbia and the system of business banks in the Republic of Serbia, because they are potentially at risk, which can be very easy to determine that it exists. So those were questions. I really thank you for the exhaustive answer you gave me and I'm not looking for it again, I understand it all well, but you must understand us that those questions that we have the right to ask in this way, in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure. Please keep that in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3956	The chairman of the National Assembly has no right, but a duty. The MPs of opposition MPs agree, which means I'm right. People's MPs, the members you are referring to are from two different parts of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Article 199 concerns the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government. Today, during the good part of the afternoon, in a silent agreement, members who are part of the rights and duties of the MPs, members of 225 and 226, are abused in order to actually ask parliamentary questions, i.e. that MPs may also address the National Assembly, citizens and citizens of Serbia in relation to the topics they consider to be of interest to their voters, and to those who are not their constituents and to all others. So, when you ask me what's going to happen and whether the government is considering a law concerning the financial market, I can only help you by referring to Article 199 of Section 2 - the relationship between the Assembly and the Government. So, we can't both: we can't abuse the Rules of Procedure, Articles 225 and 226, asking for answers from the Government and not being referred to as asking for answers from the Government. You reiterated the question... Does MP Zoran Krasic throw? He never threw away. So, as far as your question is concerned about whether or not the Constitution will be respected, I repeat, it is not a question that is being asked, the Constitution has to be respected. National MP Aleksandar Jugovic utters a violation of the Rules of Procedure and wants to talk about it. He gets a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3957	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have come to report a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103(1). This agony continues. One of the MPs in this assembly had just said that his time had returned, and I told him that it was impossible, because the time of certain MPs from this assembly and certain political groups had long passed. Their future is in the past. I'm glad the MPs of the SRS recognized themselves in that, but I can tell you that you've been a big fraud, and you've fooled us. We were trying to narrow your obstruction down to a certain measure that is normal, calling for your conscience, however, has proved that you have no conscience. Therefore, we will not appeal to your morality or, God forbid, to the responsibility of the citizens of Serbia. You should be honest, admit that this conflict is two political concepts: one concept, on my right in this parliament, which sees Serbia in the 1990s, which leads Serbia into isolation, and the other is the concept of a list for European Serbia that will introduce Serbia into the EU, I guarantee it, and there will be no obstacle on that path. Gentlemen of the Serbian Radical Party, I will now tell you, I will address you directly, it is a pain to sit in this House for us who get paid for it. Imagine, then, what it's like for Serbian citizens who pay...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3958	People's MP, please don't address the MPs directly. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are not allowed to address other MPs by word or gesture. I ask you to have such behaviour in Article 104, which we call upon, and we demonstrate ourselves, because it is inadmissible to conduct dialogue from the pay phone and it is forbidden to the Rules of Procedure, under the threat of punishment. The Rules of Procedure must apply equally to everyone. The word is given by the People's Messenger Ivan Andric, who utters the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3959	Of course, Article 104 - People’s messengers are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and to approach one another with respect. You know what, sir, you SPS certainly have the authority to say which party is failing and which one is not, because when someone is speaking from their experience it's best, however, you're telling one lie. Let me say something about it and call it that. The ruling majority has combined six agenda points into one last week, under the pretext that it should and must be done faster. For example, my party's MPs, instead of six times fifteen minutes under that law, were assigned two minutes under the law on which we had a lot of grudges. Then, Mr. Representative of the ruling majority, we haven't worked for four days. (President: Messenger of the People, I pray you, too, that you should not address other people's messengers. ) Give me a warning if you judge me to insult the dignity of the National Assembly, but please do not interrupt me. (President: I just remind you that we are not having a dialogue with each other from the pay phone. ) So, we lost all day at the hearing in the Rules of Procedure, according to Article 140, about the merger of the points in the agenda. You informally all said we were right, but you did it anyway, you voted us. Then four days the congregation didn't work. After all, you are not ashamed to come and accuse the opposition of obstruction again. Now that you're talking like that, I don't know what your motive is to report to 18.10 for the first time and to be counting and dividing the Assembly on the left and right. I can't get into your motives, but that the lessons about the SPI Europe are being taught here at six o'clock in the evening, even though we've been working all day, really, believe me... You have to work hard to earn it, to gain such a right. Since you've already reached out, I now invite you to explain your personal motive for voting to join six points into one, and then four days later this assembly has not worked. Is there any other reason than to prevent opposition MPs from speaking about these laws?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3960	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3961	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appear under Article 101 of Rule 2: "If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to reply. "Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think you're in the performance of the previous speaker, I don't mean Mr. Andric, you could best recognize how wise our people are. When he gives certain definitions for some things we don't need to say anything anymore. You know of that folk, there's a mouse and an elephant running, and the mouse is all proud and he says, "Uh, we're going to beat." You've had a chance to see a political mouse here. He gives himself the courage to judge any party. Since 1990, since the multi-party began, the SPO has received fewer MPs in all previous elections than the SRS in the last elections. They teach us a lesson here and talk about obstruction, talk about some things, and forget everything that happened in the Assembly at a time when there were at least three MPs from the SPS, I guess now there are two or one, it doesn't matter how many there are. Take care not to piss off those who gave you mandates, because you will no longer be in the Serbian Parliament; as a party you have ended your career, you are the only one who can do the work to those parties you need to serve to achieve their goals.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3962	The word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure has a People's MP, Jugovic Aleksandar.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3963	Article 104, breach of the Rules of Procedure. What I was saying earlier was not about LDP, it was about a political group that is well-known to Serbia; and maybe it's a good thing that this political group exists on the political scene of Serbia, because when they do something, we know when we do the opposite that we will do it in the interests of Serbian citizens. What I still want to say, and I've already talked about it, is that it's a matter of principle and supreme responsibility, a matter of morality and a matter of political awareness, something that, even though we have four MPs, we haven't lost. I will tell you that we have preserved dignity and principles in this sense that we have not sacrificed the citizens of Serbia for the sake of achieving our political interests, that for the sake of principle we have suffered ourselves, and you know it best. We, like you, could sacrifice citizens of Serbia, sacrifice Serbian interests for cheap political points, for the sake of votes. In this situation, 40-50 SPS MPs may be sitting in this parliament. The principled one is the man who suffers himself because of his principles, but the supreme irresponsible is the one who sacrifices the entire people for his principles.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3964	The word has been given by MP Zoran Ostojić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, according to Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3965	Dear vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues, it's a good thing, sir, that you said it didn't apply to LDP, but you really shouldn't have answered. Everything Mr. Andric said stands. We want to work, you don't let us discuss the laws and then participate in obstruction. If they have their own problem, you who you say are the power of the past, then let them solve that problem. Let's say, allow Tomislav Nikolic to resign as chairman of the Administrative Committee, because it belongs to them, they are the largest parliamentary group. That'll stop the obstruction. As far as the past is concerned, let me remind you, your party was with them in the government. If I have to sit here and listen to Serbian radicals defend journalists, and they were in the government when everything happened to the press, and I didn't answer because I want it to end, I understand their pain, but let's pass that law, then which devil makes you go out and leave now after six without ending this, and only one amendment remains. When I tell you, I mean most of it. You're a representative of the majority. They make their torment here. What do we do? One of the things is that they belong to the Administrative Board, and they don't have it. As far as the term of office is concerned, that's when. I'm not getting involved in this. As long as there's no resignations, there's no mandate. That's what all of you in the Constitution wrote together. We were the only ones against it. That's what you've all brought together, now you've had a fight and we have to sit here after 6:00 and we can't finish this law. It really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3966	National MP Srdjan Spasojevic utters a violation of the Rules of Procedure and receives a word based on article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3967	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't want to report after Mr. Jugovic's first presentation, but I believe that the members of 101 and 104 have been injured. Mr. Jugovic, you said that the right side of parliament obstructs work. I really thought it did not apply to New Serbia's MPs, who have been waiting all the time to do things by the law, that this assembly should start working. At the LDP call, you came out here, apologized and said you didn't think it was about LDP MPs. The right-hand side here consists of New Serbia's MPs. I really cannot understand that today we have so many problems in this House's work, obstruction is constant. Believe me, it is not the opposition's fault that the chairman missed at the beginning of this session to determine the quorum. We only had 75 MPs in the O.R., and after an hour we remembered, when Mr. Dragan Shormaz wanted to warn, we better stop and give an hour's break. Behind that, nonstop outwitting. The President of Parliament has travelled abroad and I have the impression that the chairman all day wants to show us a good lesson from the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. It would really be correct to stop it. More MPs have warned us about it here. I don't think the citizens of Serbia should learn the Rules of Procedure in this way, but rather deal with current problems. The only thing New Serbia's MPs have pointed out here is the terrible accumulation of gas, which is from tomorrow, because tomorrow is the warm season. People in Serbia will be forced to use alternative types of heating. Is that how we are forced to spend the budget of our citizens? It's incorrect. You can't understand that. Indeed, it would be correct for the government to explain why this collection was. Another major problem in front of Serbian citizens these days is whether their deposits in banks, the little trouble they saved and put on the book, are safe? Serbian citizens have the right to do so. They've been double-crossed. We're really asking the government to answer these questions urgently.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3968	National MP Aleksandar Jugovic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and the MP Milos Aligrudic. You can look at the stenogram, MP Srdjana Spasojevic. I explained how it started today's work day, not to repeat it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3969	I will be very brief, because there are some people who are in a hurry here, because they have been in a hurry so far and have worked in the interests of Serbian citizens and constructively. I'll tell you one more thing, I'm sorry there are other people here who have recognized themselves in my address to the Serbian Radical Foreigner.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3970	The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so MP Zoran Nikolic points out the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3971	Since a lot of people appear for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, then a man reacts late. Madam Chairman, you have injured Article 27(3). The Rules of Procedure, which says that the chairman is taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. Taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, you managed to hold a discussion with one of the MPs in a recent exchange, it doesn't matter which political group they belong to, you say he must not address other MPs from this pay phone. True, it's written in one place in the statute. How do you think that the provision of Article 101(1) and (2) is realised? The Rules of Procedure, which states: "Unless the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly has spoken offensively about the MP from another parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation refers has the right to a replica." Item 2: "If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to reply." So either way, it's a replica. When making a replica, it must, at the very least, express an adjudication to the speech of the previous speaker and it is impossible not to mention it, so that I cannot see how you imagine that there is at all a debate on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure or that the right to replica within the meaning of Article 101, whether it is attitude 1 or attitude 2, and that in any way any reference to the previous exhibitor, which caused this right of replica, is not given. That's just impossible. You want us to talk in ciphers; when someone challenges us in a replica, we say, person x, ipsion; or -- someone once said, so that we can talk abstractly to someone outside of this room or we can talk to you? You know, we're not in the courtroom, nor does our Rules of Procedure regulate the rules of conduct in the courtroom when questions are strictly asked through the judge. This is a live debate and you have no right to take people's rights to live debate. It's something these rules of procedure are guaranteed. So, I ask you, since today, by replacing the President of the National Assembly, you have enjoyed a terrible role as President of the National Assembly, which, fortunately, you have crossed the border and have begun to teach us all lessons in good conduct and have interpreted the Rules of Procedure in different ways, as it occurred to you. So far, I've tried to be as polite as possible in all my exhibitions and communication with you. I have always explicitly respected all of your reasons that I find justified and even experienced from your side that you did this to me. But I am part of the people in this room, and I have the right to react to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, as they have the right, and everyone else, in order to protect the interests of the citizens who chose the MPs. This time I'm not doing it for myself, I'm doing the other one, and I think I'm right about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3972	There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. So one MP has been warned that the gesture and verbal and non-verbal communication does not address it directly and does not enter the dialogue while it is behind the pay phone. It's a provision that applies to each other's pitching. There were no misunderstandings in the application of the Rules of Procedure, since both the MP and the MP group to whom this inappropriate behaviour had been addressed used their rights in the Rules of Procedure and their right to replication. I can't see there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure during the presidency. If you want, we can get to the bottom of this in the voting day. National MP Zoran Ostojić points out the violation of the Rules of Procedure and receives a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3973	Re-injury of Article 104. I'm sorry, really, what--don't? Don't go out? Don't answer it? You should've thought about that a little earlier and controlled the majority, at least to get enough of you. Not many, 128, two missing. Next time, take the bills. We want to work by the law, but not to be all of you now, now a little of them, this side. We're glad you're talking about the price of gas. Gentlemen, that was mentioned by someone from your party an hour ago, and now the gentleman from the DSS, and we in the morning. You see, you should have thought about the price of gas when you voted in favour of an energy agreement with Russia. It's a direct consequence. Now we have the most expensive gas. Two, who's importing gas? Don't now - it's not. Yes, it is. The fact is, 60% of the total gas... (President: Please, without mutual dialogue. That's a fact. We hope that the Constitutional Court will prevent that harmful contract. We hope that this harmful contract won't come to pass. We hope so. What kind of vote that was, and there you were all together, seems to be little of our hopes. That's what's important for citizens, because it's really unimaginable that one thing collects 60%, except maybe in some countries, not to mention them, because we have diplomatic relations. On the other hand, who's importing? We don't know. The state's secret is what the entry price is. Since there is still a debate on information, that is, a law on the protection of personal data... This isn't a person, but it's a state secret, that's the point. Not with that cheap demagogy -- we take care of the people, look, this government is doing bad work, expensive... And if the government does it badly, it shows 100 days, it's not at all controversial. Be a consistent opposition, and then say, yes, maybe that contract with Russia where they're not immediately given to me by NIS, and they're the pipeline to "I'll come to you in 10-15 years", it's not much of a patriotic and commercial job, but it's something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3974	If no one appears anymore because of the disturbances in the procedure, the word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jankovic. I read, the amendment to Article 59, which was submitted with correction by the MP Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3975	I just called about a breach of the Rules of Procedure, based on Articles 225 and 226, to ask you when I'm finally going to get my word. But since I got it, let's go. An amendment to the 59th Personal Data Protection Act, you won't believe. Article 59 reads: "The Commissioner for Public Information, established by the Law on Free Access of Information of Public Meaning, continues to work under the name of the Commissioner for Public Information and the Protection of Personal Data". My question is why, according to automation, the trustee for such a serious area, what is the area of public information, increases the part-round obligation, simply put, expands the scope of work to such an extent that it is almost impossible for a mortal man to control everything alive and unlively. With all the professional services he has, along with the deputy, he still finds it difficult to be an all-seeing eye or a big brother for such qualitatively different data groups. While the priority of the Commissioner for Public Information has been increased to the public and, as it is now popularly said in this new Serbian language, transparency of information, the priority of the Commissioner for the Protection of Personality Data is to increase the level of legal certainty of citizens that their personal data will be protected from possible misuses or abuses in the public. It is only for the information we present to the citizens, when it comes to the centralisation of personal data, that there is no doubt that there is a serious totalitarian potential of the project chipping citizens. Surveillance and control studies have long established the effects of observation on human behavior. In a pioneering work in this area, Jeremy Bentham had long ago drawn up a design of a special prison observation system called the Panopticon. It's a tower located in the center of the county prison, and behind the darkened glass, there's a guard watching the prisoners. Not knowing whether or not someone is watching them, prisoners are "normalizing" their behavior. Bentham himself considered the Panopticon a unique instrument of gaining power over the consciousness of the prisoners. Much later, Michel Fuko will take Panoptikon as a metaphor for the disciplined biopolitical repression of modern society against individuals. Modern surveillance and control studies also criticise modern surveillance systems, such as biometrics, because, so to speak, society as a whole is turning into an invisible prison where all citizens are actually suspected as potential criminals and terrorists. Knowing that at any time someone may be watching them citizens are forced to inhibit and uniform their behavior, which, metaphorically speaking, would mean that the last nail in this precious case of free society is being framed. What's interesting is that the use of biometric technology and for commercial purposes, primarily for the purpose of providing business facilities on Wall Street, starts right in America. Since then, the use of biometric technology has experienced unprecedented expansion both in the public and private sectors. Without a doubt, the greatest driver of the proliferation of biometric technology is the U.S. government. Thus, the US law on increased border security and visa reform in 2002 stipulates that states whose citizens do not need visas to enter the United States must introduce biometric passports within two years to maintain this right. To meet US security requirements and after reaching a political consensus at the 2003 Thessaloniki summit, the EU Council adopted a regulation on the introduction of common security standards and biometrics into passports and other travel documents issued by Member States in December 2004. By the end of 2006, most EU member states began issuing biometric passports with an integrated remote-readable, uncontactive chip, including digital photographs and signatures of the IC. Because it itself has decided to introduce biometric passports, the EU has asked candidates, but also potential candidates, including Serbia, to move on to biometric travel documents in order to liberalise the visa regime. This small digression dedicated to explaining biometric technology and its basic purpose to increase the general security of the state, but also to citizens, explains why this amendment provided for the Commissioner for the Protection of Personality Data to be elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Security Committee. With all due respect to Mr Sabic, the current Commissioner for Public Information, I do not think it is good and reasonable to add powers to psychophysically unsustainable proportions. In addition, such unification of the roles that one person should perform as if he were a multiple personality, along with potential political ones can also have serious psychopathological components. Nor is Mr Sabic from the same "yellow company" as President Tadic, who has so many active functions that he resembles the Indian deity of Shiva, is enough qualification for a place that, as I said in principle, gives almost papal authority. Perhaps the only real personality for such a function would be only the famous minister of general practice of ambition, and the minister and confidant for the obstruction of each government, Mr. Young Dinkic. He's the only one uncritical enough to be on a megalomaniac duty like this. It may also be a comforting reward for not fulfilling his desire from the governor's day to find his photograph on the most valuable of all bills. He is the only one experienced enough in the hydra strategy that provides his tentacles wherever there is even the slightest possibility of gnawing. In an explanation of my amendment's refusal, the Government is calling for parallel legislation, citing Austria's example. What do you need now? Should I take out some piece of legislation on this ace from the government's sleeve, I don't know, Germany or neighbouring countries or the UK? It's not a question of which is bigger and better, of course, I mean the law, but how to specify it so that it corresponds to the measure of this state, its citizens and a very complicated Serbian reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3976	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) According to the amendment, the People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, and then the MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3977	I believe that this amendment is seen in the best possible way how pointless this concept of the law that the Government has proposed is. I must draw your attention to the fact that there are few dots in this law with what anyone who proposes such a law must run, and that is, above all, the provision of Article 42. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We won't get anything by adopting this amendment, we won't get anything in the quality of the law even if this solution is left in the bill, because this law is prepared to be the most ordinary legislation. For who? I don't already know who. Nothing protects citizens from abuse. It does not protect citizens from abuses that can be committed by representatives of state authorities; it does not protect citizens from possible abuses by the main and responsible editors and journalists; it does not protect against the abuse that is possible in the judicial and other proceedings; it does not protect against possible abuses that may be committed by foreigners. I'm going to make all of this clear on a few examples. In this country, every mobster is able to buy a coll-center, install it at the Fair, on Dedinj, anywhere, and listen to everything and everything and listen to phone conversations go into the most extraordinary things about an individual. Here, I can tell you that there is one such man; he talked about listening to a friend of his talk to Boris Tadic, so he took pictures of some of his houses, villas, cottages, cars, God asking you what he was painting, and of course, he was showing this man. If they're father and son, I don't know, politically, it doesn't matter. This subject is serious, and I would ask you, for I am not in charge of laughter in the National Assembly; I am in charge of serious matters. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] If you recognize the son who said his dad was making political progress, that's another thing. But woe to the father whom the son praises, and to whom the son warns. I know it's funny to you, but you know, you can all get into this situation. Well, you see, how does the state react in that case? The gendarmes - they can't. Air Force-- we don't have it. The cavalry-- it can't. Who can intervene in that situation? No one can. Let me tell you about that maniac of yours, with that famous last name. With him when you enter the room, it's all just listening devices under the bed. And he's sending the information to someone. Or, you go into this head of your cabinet of the President of the Republic -- he's the one at the top of the pyramid, that Mickey Rakic. We saw him, he was led by one of these friends, the son politically, for a little while, he did. But you know everything. You have the problem of narrowing Serbia down -- instead of accepting the concept of a modern European region of great Serbia, you have accepted the concept of Belgrade's pasture. Reinforced in that concept of yours with some others, you've come into a situation where now the neighbor knows what she's talking about. How to protect the data? How many times have you witnessed someone calling you on the phone and saying - please, your polling station is here and there, go to the election, round up the regular number of that and that. How many times have you had a chance to hear that? Then the citizens rightfully ask the question - who is it that gave my information to some idiot, who is it? Does this law prevent the release of that data? No, I don't. Is this law preventing this illegal activity? No, I don't. Then why are you making us vote for the law, like we're going with this amendment, whether it's a lawyer or not? You know what it was like, though? He says he stops at a bus stop in Kragujevac, so either this or that or he goes to get his degree. That's right, we heard one of them got a degree this morning. But, please, does this law prevent negative phenomena? It doesn't stop. Can it prevent phenomena in perspective? He can't. Why? This is the One who will fight you out of power. For what he has done according to that law, you will beat him. How will you do? Second, did you read it correctly in article 42. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is there any provision that comes from the domain of the administration or something from the domain of the court? Where does the administration begin, where does it end, and where does it begin, and where does the court end? What protection do our courts provide to the people who sue? Is there a thin border, where the threshold is, say, where politicians and public figures have to suffer the release of some data? You have scattered it in several laws, to remind you, the Law on Information, the Law on Broadcasting, the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and not to order further. Do you know that Serbia today does not have a single voter list? Since 2000, a unique voter list has been sought continuously. There's no such thing as a unique ID. There are some cities, some municipalities now something, like, in electronic form, arranged. What are the measures that this employee who's employed there, because he's a member of the NN party, doesn't abuse that data? Didn't he ever call you a citizen and say, "I'm sorry, please, call me on the phone from that and that party, they know exactly where I'm at, they know the regular number on the polling list, they know everything about me. I talked to a man yesterday to get something done for the party. He calls me this morning and he says, "I'm sorry, forget it, nothing." What? He threatened me. Who threatened you? He says that one and that one. How does he know when only you and I were in the room? He says he's listening to everything. And he published it in the paper. What kind of country do we live in, what kind of society do you create, insecure, insolent, immoral types? Do you help negative phenomena by your passive relationship with socially harmful phenomena and criminal phenomena? If in the National Assembly, if in the Government, if there is no proper state action in the judiciary, according to the Constitution and the law, then criminals say - everything is allowed, anything can. You know, when the Code of Criminal Procedure of Sales went missing, all copies of the Code - bought by mobsters, so lawyers couldn't secure the Code. All the mobsters bought it, so they could get good information about what was ahead of them. I think this is the most common distraction to stop the story of Kosovo and Metohija, about our relations with our neighbours, about our relationship with the EU, about our relationship with the great forces, to stop the story of economic misery, to stop the story of our citizens' social status, to stop the story of everything that is life. You are aware that by adopting this law you will do nothing. What's going to change? Nothing. Are the negatives going to stop? He won't. Is someone gonna answer? He can't, because he's either yours or close to you, or he works for you or he shoots you, he backs you up. Or, simply, it allows someone to get a bad impression that someone here is supposed to be obstructing. In the National Assembly, MPs are obliged to talk because this is a parliament, obstruction is done by those who are silent and those who are silent in the Assembly say they agree with negative phenomena in the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3978	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. You have five minutes and 30 seconds at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3979	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, concerning the proposal for this law and for the proposed amendment, is sufficient just to specify the provisions contained in this bill. What counterpart Krasic said, not what he will improve, this law makes the state of rights and the freedom of our citizens worse. Here are the provisions that threaten citizens' rights and freedoms. It says, in Article 3 paragraph 3: Data processing is every data-related action taken in relation to data such as – watch out, please, what is this, this is worse than in the darkest communist time – data collection, data copying, data copying, data copying, data copying, data processing, data storage, data storage, data separation, cross-referencing, retrieval, retrieval, retrieval, data protection, use, recognition, disclosure, dissemination, dissemination, recording, organisation, storage, adaptation, detection, disclosure, or other way of making available data, data coverage and other non-available, as well as other actions in relation to those data, regardless of whether it is carried out automatically, semi-automatically or otherwise (in other way: processing). Ladies and gentlemen, does this law guarantee anyone that he will not be tapped by any rustling and any dwarves? I agree, the Code of Criminal Procedure has been set out precisely in which cases the competent state authorities may also decide by the court to listen. And now someone, like in a college center or someone in the local community, is going to listen to you, from the local community to the Republic government or the highest state bodies. It's not clear here, nor is it clear who will, in which case, listen to whom. This is a scandal! I know very well the rules regarding data collection and electronic data processing. I've worked on these jobs for years. I can tell you, this is a scandal. This law endangers fundamental human rights. Don't take this lightly. Human and civil rights and freedoms determine the legal position of individuals towards authorities. Human rights and freedoms are a limit that the state government must not exceed. Not that she overstepped, this is a scandal. Who could have gone to parliament with this, before the MPs, in front of the Assembly, that citizens today have to mind what they're going to say and where? According to this law, there are not only white and red blood cells, which will collect and harass certain types, dwarves and shushes, and endanger human rights in the Republic of Serbia. We have inflation regulations, but I must tell you, this violates the Constitution, this violates the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, this violates the fundamental human rights guaranteed by all possible international documents. I know the rules of internal affairs. I can tell you that those of 1966 were better held when Broz arrested and replaced them and that they were better regulations in the area than what democracy in the Republic of Serbia brings today. This, I can tell you, is the blackest evil in Serbia waiting for our citizens. It is a democracy of the Democratic Party or of the coalition in power. We're against this, and we don't need to apply this. It won't apply. You'll have to change this soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-14-0.u3980	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Proposer Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice, want a word? I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This concludes today's work and continues tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 136 MPs present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 1/3 of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the MPs of the People's Republic of Riza Halimi and Balint Pastor. I would like to inform you that National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic is in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly also invited Jovan Cosic, the head of the Justice Ministry, to attend the session. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Abduction of the IMPROSTELS FROM THE CRIMINAL ACT (individuality) You have received amendments submitted by the National MPs Ivan Andrić, Slobodan Maraš and Zoran Ostojić; Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic and Nebojša Rangelović; Zoran Ostojić and Ivan Andrić; Slobodan Maraš, Judita Popović and Kenan Hajdarevic, and National MPs Vladan Batić, Mirko Munjic, Petar Jojic, Jadranko Vukovic, Dejan Mirović, Slobodan Vuković, Veroljub Arsic, Marko Milenković, Radiša Ilic, Verica Rade, Zlata Djerić and Srdan Spasojevic. The amendment was written by the MPs: Slobodan Maras, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic on Article 11, which was proposed to add a new position 5; then, Zlata Djeric to Articles 2, 9, 23 and 28 and submitted new amendments to the same members; Srdjan Spasojevic to Articles 28, 41 and 43 and submitted new amendments to the same members. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic.
