ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u655	I'm referring to Article 226 and I'm looking for information that's important for my further work. The previous two days, the DSS-NS parliamentary group insisted that it receive extremely important information. I think that information is important to every MP in this room. It happened, namely, that in that list of ministries (I can freely say "list") we saw that there was a Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. I don't think there are any MPs in this room who would welcome the establishment of this ministry. Then, meanwhile, it happened that a senior DS official signed an amendment requesting that this ministry be abolished. The entire work of the DSS-NS parliamentary group focused that day on convincing the parliamentary majority how necessary it is for the ministry to remain and how necessary that it should not be and should not be subject to political trade. After that, we received information that the amendment was withdrawn. I would be very happy (here, and Mr Milivojevic tells me "we convinced them") if, as an MP of the DSS-NS, even if I was partly responsible for that, that you were able to do it, because of our conviction and because of our arguments. I would also be very unhappy if it were the fruit of political trade. In any case, I'm looking for information about what was going on, what initiated the gentleman who submitted the amendment (after a long time I see him in the O.R.), or I would like to get information as MPs – what led him to submit an amendment to abolish the ministry and then withdraw him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u656	Today’s session, or agenda, will be dedicated to this issue, so that there will be opportunities to hear and answer. In any case, it is the right of the MPs to submit the amendment and to withdraw it. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure here, on the contrary. Thank you. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Slobodan Maraš, Nebojsa Rangelović, Suzana Grubješić, Konstantin Arsenović, Željko Vasiljevic, Đorđe Milicevic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Srdjan Spasojević, Milica Vojić-Marković, Milan Lapčević, Djevanka Tabaković, Dragan Todorović, Mićo Rogović, Mileta Poscurica, Ljubomir Kragović, Dusan Marić, Zoran Krasić, Milorad Buha, Dejan Mirović, Vjerica Radet, Božidar Delić, Petar Jojić, Ogten Mihajlović, Momir Marković, Momir Marković, Veroljubić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Igor Rador Bečić, Natašačačač, Bojan Mladenova ml, Bojan Mladenova Malić, Mir Babić, Mira Babić, Mirić, Zakić, Mirjan Babić, Milić, Milić, Mirjan Žović, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Mir, Miraž. The amendment was written by the MPs: Milos Radulović to Article 3, Marko Djurisic to Article 2, to the title above Articles 7 and 7, to the title above Articles 26 and 26, to Articles 44, 45 and 50, and Vladan Batić to Articles 8, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 25 and 26. It's a bill of law. You have received a report, with an amendment, by the Legislative Committee on the Amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, Article 140, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I'd also like to inform you that the session of the Justice Committee has just been completed. The report is multiplying and will soon be among us MPs. Thank you. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. He has the word Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u657	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. I've only tried to focus on one topic, which is the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning. My amendment says that we should throw out the part relating to spatial planning, i.e. that this ministry should only be related to the environment. There are significant reasons for this, and I think the issue of environmental protection is very important in this country. I'd look back on one thing, which I don't think the general public is familiar with, and I think they'll be in front of us in the next period. It's to confirm an oil-gas deal with Gazprom, or the Russian Federation. Serbia signed the agreement and those who signed it made one terrible mistake, which is that there is not a single word in the agreement on environmental protection. The deal provides for oil coming from a Russian partner, oil that's supposed to be Ural Oil. It is oil that has been banned in Western Europe due to the high level of sulphur, the highest percentage of sulphur in it. Unfortunately, this oil will arrive in Serbia, and we know very well, I think it is best to know the citizens of Panchev and the citizens of Vojvodina, the kind of incidents that have happened so far. The processing of this oil will result in a terrible environmental pollution, and I say, not one single letter in the agreement binds the Russian partner, there is no obligation to the environment. I'm afraid the cost of protecting the environment will be tremendously high. It's one of the aspects that makes me think it's very important that there is a ministry only for the environment, which would concern environmental protection. In this case, if there is spatial planning, it is clear to everyone why it is isolated from the infrastructure, that is, why it has been transferred here -- to weaken one potential minister -- I think it is too much of a risk, or that if people in this ministry are engaged in spatial planning, there will be little time and little will to deal with the environment. Speaking of the oil-gas deal, I hope that in the coming days, when we discuss it, we will mention a lot of things. We will mention why there was no mention of the environment in the agreement, and why the oil-gas agreement was concluded. We will also mention that there is one intermediate company, which takes 5% of gas imports, called "Yugorosgas". While the prime minister was Mirko Marjanovic, there was then another intermediary company that took 0.2% on the market, i.e. gas imports, and now "Yugorosgas" (since 2006 the company has been official) takes 5%. Magically, in the last month and a half, the percentage of which was 50:50 (which was Serbian, which was Russian) went to the Gazprom side of about 80%. And what happened about two, three and four weeks ago? The Russian partner, or "Gasprom", has informed "Serbigas" that he is ready to sell his stake. We are afraid that the stake that Gazprom sells, or 80% in Jugorosgas, and I say that someone takes a commission of 5% on the transport of that gas and amounts to about 50 million euros a year, at ten years it's half a billion, I'm afraid that whoever Gazprom wants to sell its share to, to some third person we still don't know who it is, I'm afraid that whoever took part in the conclusion of this agreement, or someone who had the most interest in it, but he didn't take care that one word in this agreement is dedicated to protecting the environment. That is why I believe that this amendment should be adopted, that spatial planning should be eliminated and that this really is the real Ministry of Environmental Protection. I hope that in the day of voting this amendment will be accepted and that this ministry, as it was in the previous period, will be only the Ministry of Ecology, or for environmental protection. We know that then Minister Dragin has invested a lot of effort and resources to deal with these issues. We know what happened to Tis, who, by chance, is back in Vojvodina. First of all, because of the citizens of Vojvodina, and because of all the citizens of Serbia, I want this ministry to be a clean ministry for environmental protection. I repeat once again, I hope that you will accept this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u658	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Momir Markovic. Here, you have a word. What's the member?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u659	Members of the 225th and 226th MPs have the right to be informed. Without the intention of entering a subject that is related to this amendment and wasting time on the SRS, those 15 minutes on which, regardless of who submitted the amendment, the parliamentary group has the right, only to correct three things. First, the oil called "ural" is not as saturated with sulfur as you speak. Let me remind you that your importers imported Syrian oil, which was one of the most polluted sulfur oil, and then it didn't bother you. The second thing, which is related to this gas arrangement with Russia, refers to those 0.2% and 5%. For Serbian citizens to say, 2% of transport costs through Serbia are not costs to transport gas, but rather gas that consumes compressors in compressor stations to maintain pressure from the entry station to the consumer, or to the exit station. So it's not 0.2%, sir, it's 2%. That's transport costs. People who at least came to the oil business know that. People who worked for at least two days in the gas industry know that, and I spent 25 years at the Energogas, and these things are extremely familiar to me. On the other hand, the naphtha "ural" is not saturated with sulfur, and I would like to ask you to deny me by bringing the results from the chromatographer for Ural naphtha, because it seems to me that what's said today has another weight and that it has political disqualification in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u660	Thank you. Please receive information on the change of terms for the Privatisation Committee. The beginning of the session will not be at 13.00, but at 1400 hours. Mr. Marash has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u661	Mr. Markovic, for one, I never had my intermediaries or importers, as you said, who imported Syrian oil. I don't have it with me right now, but there will be a chance when an agreement is discussed with Gazprom in this assembly, to bring in all the data. That's one thing. The other thing is, you didn't get me very well. I said that at the time of the government, Mirko Marjanovic's company, Progress Trading, took 0.2% of the commissions for what it brokered in the gas purchase. Today, "Yugorosgas" takes 5%. That's about 50m euros a year, compared to what imports are. So I'm not talking about those transport 2%, I'm saying someone's taking 5% of the commission. Gazprom has informed Srbiagas that it is selling its 80% ownership, which it now has in Jugorosgas, to a third party. I'm afraid it's the third person who insisted that this deal be concluded with Gazprom. I hope we have a chance to find out who's behind it and who's going to take half a billion of Serbia's citizens for no reason at all. So you didn't get me right.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u662	The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u663	I've come forward on Mr. Marash's amendment. The DSS-NS parliamentary group wants to discuss it in a professional manner and has no complex to support the amendment, regardless of which parliamentary group gives the amendment, if it makes sense, if logical, if it brings about a promotion of life in our Serbia. I think it makes perfect sense for the environment ministry to exclude spatial planning from the area covered by it, especially because Serbia has been slowly making legislation and adopting environmental laws that have gone far in Europe since 2004. So, as far as regulations are concerned, we're coughing for Europe, coughing for the world. We've ruined our Serbia quite a bit. We've ruined it with carelessness, but also because we don't have adequate laws. I therefore believe that that structure that was created since 2004 until today, and the two governments were two ministers, and then I commended actually that continuity that one ministry started and the other went on, because I believe that the state is developing only by continuity. Nothing starts today and from us. We must continue where we left off with the fall of this government. So what I'm saying is, as suggested here, we're practically moving out everything that, as part of the institution, worked. Let's say, the Department of Veterinary, the Land Administration is returning to the cover of some other ministries, because it was given here that jurisdiction would be taken over by the Ministry of Agriculture. I don't think there's any reason for that, and there's no time for that. Something came back to life, it started to work, it started to produce results, and I think there's absolutely no room to go back to what we did before 2000. Also, I have to say one very important thing. It is very important to know that what is called work and the functioning of the state cannot possibly be the fruit of political trade, reconciliation and the rest. Let aside the fact that a minister will have very many powers and important powers. Trust your coalition partners, make a very good law base, make the state apply those laws, and then I don't think we're going to go into the order of those countries that are most polluted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u664	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u665	An amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the SRS to Article 2. The proposal for a law on ministries and regarding the termological provision of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development is in fact merely a reason for us to point out to the public that Mr Tadic is trying, in addition to the Presidential seat, to be prime minister in shadow, that Mr Dacic is keenly seeking to be called that, but in fact, there is one man who has long been called "mightiest of the most powerful". Mr Dinkic, in the form of a red thread that passes through DOS authorities all the time, is the glue that, through the abuse of power and continuous action, actually valorizes knowledge through the first book he published and one of the few interviews he gave in 1995 "Economy of Destruction". Mr Dinkic's interest in financial flows, in the use of foreign reserves that he counted for one night, was declared to be their owner and continued to manage through the alleged team of necessary experts, self-called experts, very skillfully, as an octopus logic continues through participation in the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. Our people would say, "It's not all foxy, there's something about chicken nonsense." This people's wisdom very skillfully illustrates the responsibility of those who agree to lead Mladjan Dinkic, then as director of the G17 expert team, and later G17 plus, and today to actually be prime minister of government with the only right and real power. What I want to point out is: don't lead the public astray by bringing the story down to the number of ministries. The real point of the story is that Mr Dinkic has taken control of the economy, privatisation, tourism, employment, economic relations with abroad, precious metals through the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development (I think you will soon be able to read something about how Mr Dinkic exported gold to the UK in 2000), and today continues to put under direct control of the Infrastructure Agency. This means putting under control all financial flows -- when they come from abroad, when they are negotiated, when that money is shared by the users and, most importantly for all of us, through direct influence on the choice and management of the two agencies that have the largest amount of money in this country. What's this about? The way two agencies were formed - for privatisation and for recovery, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, later crossed into the Deposit Insurance Agency, were not an unaccepted warrant in September 2001 when the Trust Fund, which gave a donation of six million dictated the list of institutions that would privatise state and social enterprises, but also the way the money would flow past the republican budget. The story, in the past and this, is dedicated to the subject: everyone who is staring at Serbia's citizens' money, and for generations of state-owned and social enterprises, pours into these two agencies, without the control of the state authorities, without the control of the ministers and without the possibility of the Serbian Parliament looking for a report, account or liability, is in fact complicity in the most terrible economic crime, for which Mr Dinkic and the team around him remain unpunished until the day-to-day. Don't distract the citizens that it matters if they have 24 or 22 ministries. Let citizens see how many buildings in Belgrade are occupied to exercise the ministry's competence in economics and regional development. Currently, most of these employees are in the building of what used to be the National Bank (the corner of the Takovska and the former Boulevard of the Revolution), where they work hundreds of employees on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, and for the account, ask Mr Dinkic, who. Through this ministry's jurisdiction, direct responsibility is for the external trade deficit. The direct responsibility through this ministry is to force the import lobby. It's a direct responsibility that we are today a country that imports grain, ground meat, toothpicks, powdered eggs and shit. What are we making? Let the question be answered by whoever is at the head of this ministry, but also by you who allow him to have 80% of the Republic's budget, by running this ministry. So, all the inflow from the sale of the company, all the inflow from the sale of banks through these two agencies, which are past the budget of the Republic of Serbia through the Assembly. Mr Dinkic also has huge funds from the budget by asking about lending, subsidisation and the National Investment Plan. I do wonder if the other part of the coalition, which allows Mr Dinkic to behave like this, has this kind of mental blindness, laziness – I do not believe that there is ignorance – that it is enough that crumbs of consent to establish voluntary pension funds that Mr Jelasic will please one of the DS members by allowing them to register as such, that it is enough for Mr Dinkic to ask some of his discretionary rights, through consent to all and all things, to please you who have established him since 2000 until today. A man who, as governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia in 2000, didn't know how to cash a Libyan check won as a donation. He handed over the Republic government to make a Libyan check because he couldn't do it. Mr. Todorovic in the Federal Assembly in 2001 had a parliamentary question about this and evidence of this ignorance and these intricacies stand in the archives of the Assembly. Is it enough to be bold enough today? I think this case proves it. I personally appreciate Mr Dinkic a little more than others, and I think he's doing this with intent. Many convince me that he is not even aware of the consequences of his conduct. Perhaps one man can afford it, but as a society, do you as a Assembly, do you, as a parliamentary majority who claims to form a government, allow it to happen? Is it enough for the town of Kragujevac to provide the maximum amount of credit debt possible, which will be signed by someone who is not the director of the Public Debt Administration, but who is obedient enough to allow the city of Kragujevac to be in debt here? Yeah, for the first session, that material was stored. Is it enough to agree that someone will have state and social money as their own? The fact that someone, forming a coalition, says: I offer, I give – where does it offer and gives 10% increased pensions and a false promise that they have the opportunity to be 70% of the salary value, as if they have their own money? A captured state in which individuals, as Max Webber says, have power above the law and above the institutions is the work of one who claims to exercise power, the work of one who has allowed certain people to make millions of dollars in their accounts for a year and a half. We know about Djelic. Where the funds by their actions, and by inaction, and by their insolence, and by his ignorance and knowledge managed to gather Mr Dinkic, will one day be learned. In a sea of abuses, from the National Savings Bank, which I promise the citizens is not a perfect robbery and that the culprits for this crime will be brought to justice, until Mr Dinkic's promise to clear up with the bankruptcy mafia and corruption only when someone hits him on the fingers and tells him he's far from the authorities -- is not enough for our citizens. The fight against corruption and the detection of abuse cannot be motivated by personal involvement. Our task is to warn the public that you, as the ruling majority who leaves the post of prime minister to those who have been more powerful than the most powerful today, who has managed to call the National Savings a private company, designed to bring millions of profits to its founders, cannot, for the citizens of Serbia, be someone who promises to improve, be the bearer of an economically fair and socially responsible state. You, who vote for it, explain to your children where they will be employed, how much they will receive, whether they will live on credit, whether they will live in a country where the only concern is how to repay foreign loans, and we, as a state, are on the verge of debt slavery thanks to people who are not smart enough or cunning enough, but you are not sure why you let someone valorize that old wisdom: Not everything is in the wisdom of a fox, something is also in chicken nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u666	I thank Mrs. Tabakovic. Replica, Mr. Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u667	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I copy as the president of the Kragujevac City Assembly mentioned in a recent discussion. There is an anecdote from the history of culture, according to which the famous Socrates, reading Heraklit's summarised writings, aphorist exhibits, concluded that what he understands - is excellent, so with confidence he understands, assumes that what remains, which he does not achieve, is equally good. Very often discussions like this previous one don't understand, so just by this understanding of the segments I know, I appreciate the authenticity, the correctness, the validity and the correctness of the part I don't understand. As Mrs Tabakovic's discussion on the subject of overindebtedness of the town of Kragujevac, which is, you will believe for yourself, a topic which I must know much better, has no elemental, nor logical, nor factual connection to the truth, I suppose this same discussion stands in other segments. As far as the town of Kragujevac is concerned, he has obtained consent from the Ministry of Finance to be in charge of a threefold higher than the one in which the city is in charge, which will say that he has legal space for the task twice as much as this is in which he is in charge. And it is very important that the competent republican authority in Kragujevac officially acknowledged that it is the most relevant in managing public debt among local self-governments in Serbia. Among other things, certain facts, how the percentage of the debt relative to the annual budget actually falls from 2004, when Mr. Stevanovic became mayor, may most specifically speak about it, but it will be that the motive for such a discussion does not lie in fact and does not lie in relation to the town of Kragujevac, but in some relations and relations related to the fate of Novi Sad under radical authority. The fact is that, on the one hand, when you have a Shumadi led by "Together for Kragujevac" and Mr. Stevanovic, on the other hand, Novi Sad led by the SRS, that certain relations in the country change and that indeed Kragujevac, along with Belgrade, becomes the second city. Let me just have a final note. All these discussions have the same meaning, measures and tastes as yesterday's about how Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic dressed. You know, when Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic shows up at the National Assembly in jeans, it just means to me a demonstration of the claim that the suit doesn't make a man, just like the radicals in the tie suits do.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u668	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u669	Dear colleague, I will not interfere in your philosophy, but you are not worthy of meddling in economic matters. A few days ago, by commenting whether the local government is closer to the civil sector or to the state administration, you remained deprived of one necessary explanation, which I am now giving you. The criterion of whether something is a state government is not a law on whether employees of local authorities are present under the Law on the salaries of civil servants. What defines this area as the one for which the state is responsible is services that are as public, as general, needed to be controlled by the state and the way of funding. You will succeed during the term of office to master. So, whether a company is public and the government is a state or a civilian, depends on the source of funding and the type of service that is given. The mention of the town of Kragujevac, as in charge, Miss Natasa Jovanovic will surely provide you with material for the insight that you, as the president of the Assembly, have reported, that the town of Kragujevac, in the first session, is making a decision on borrowing, as far as possible after the revenue that will come into the budget, without counting on overwork, interest on credit, and we will talk about it in particular. But that's not the point. You're a philosopher and you'd have to catch the essence of things. The proof is that those who help Mr Dinkic be more powerful than the most powerful, it is not clear that he gives you nothing of his own, nor unconditional. He literally pushes you into the ideal debtors because you're so obedient. It's the essence of things.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u670	Thank you. You have no right to a replica. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. Name a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u671	Article 224, if I am not mistaken, the right of the MP to be informed of matters of importance. (Momir Markovic, from place: Not 224, but 225 and 226) Article 225, thank you. (Momir Markovic, from the scene: we will explain to you, there is time. I'd love to. That kind of essential instruction will be received on your part. But what's important at this point is two discussions about real understanding of the problem. The discussion on the position of local self-government in the state and society, which you seem to have again maliciously interpreted in the spirit of the inherited ambition of a centralized one, in Europe's most harshly centralised system, to be denied by the Constitution guaranteed the right of citizens to local self-government, which local self-government really brings into contact with state and state bodies, but these are the relations of co-operation in which the state really transfers certain competences, functions and jobs to local self-government authorities. But local self-government is not a state authority and does not come from the same source as the state and state government. Its origin came much closer to citizens' initiatives and the civil sector, because it is a form of self-organization of citizens over certain issues that are vital to their lives. Among other things, the town of Kragujevac is the most complete witness through the budget structure, because 80% of the city's budget is of its own income, and these funds do not stem from the transfer funds that the Republic of Serbia is sending to local self-government to carry out those transferred powers. Hence, and connecting with the political organisation G17 plus which "Together for Kragujevac" the agreement is not defined in such a way, it seems to me, with a dimly interpreted context motivated, but motivated by the ambition that traditional political organisations without a central in Belgrade, such as "Together for Kragujevac" and what day-to-day clients in Serbia, who have their political authority in the interior of Serbia, who have regional, local political ambitions, without wanting to fit into the Belgrade-based concept of bureaucratic political parties in the country, want to get together and to see, in front of them, one established, witnessed, pro-European democratic political organisation, such as the G17 plus indeed did. I expect to open up space on the political scene... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... just for the realization of the synthesis of these two concepts, which we need to be informed about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u672	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u673	Trying to replace the thesis and reroute the discussion is simply unsuccessful. I hope, dear colleague, that Mr. Veroljub will explain to you why he is actually here in the Assembly. He made that clear – that he did not feel powerful enough as he was sitting in Kragujevac, but that here he had to influence the reception of transfer funds and at all making decisions regarding Kragujevka. But it's not a subject, sir. Do you know what the subject is? The centralization you're talking about is immaterial in the way you try to treat it. Centralisation is precisely the one carried out by Mr Dinkic, by not dealing with banks and the banking sector in this country, but by the ministry and agencies. Is there more centralisation than whether public authorities and agencies financing the budget are engaged in financing projects of businesses, agriculture, etc.? Maybe you don't know that. You'll be able to hear from us, which is the biggest intrusion in the budget, the giving of funds without criteria, and it's state and beyond banks. The merit of the one you and whose interests you are defending (this is what I want you to hear) is this: our banks are closed so that foreign banks come to this country and trade with the National Bank of Securities. The story of the course, the story of inflation (some know it) is neither an elemental accident nor God's will, nor today's reference interest. These are very cleverly designed mechanisms, that money from the budget and through the loss of the National Bank is poured into the pockets of quite certain people who run these foreign banks and who do not finance the citizens, not the economy, but their central banks. And the loss of that in 2007 and in the first half of 2008, is 800,000 euros, remember! So they gave you a hundred million euros for the development of the town of Kragujevac, which is what the town of Kragujevac deserves, and that's just one piece of what they skillfully put in their pocket by not wanting you to see what they're doing, and what I'm going to expose all the time in my term, but on the first story about the exposure of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u674	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u675	Dear Madam President, honourable fellow Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, during these few days, discussing the proposal for a law on government and a bill on ministries and a large number of amendments, Serbian citizens should know that we are trying to correct another circus that is happening on the Serbian political scene. On the basis of Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should therefore also be amended to the Proposal for a Law on Ministries and in Article 2 paragraph 1 point 11 – Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Services. Dear citizens of Serbia, not all of you, not people from the field of tourism, I would like to remind myself of the concept of tourism towards the World Tourism Organisation, that the basis of tourism as an economic activity is traffic, hospitality, trade, tourist agencies, craftsmanship and communal activity. Tourism cannot be what it is without the abovementioned actions. One more thing. Based on tourism products, and the World Tourism Organisation knows them 11, which are based on experience, Serbia has a chance at everything except the tourism of the sun and the sea. Now the question arises, given the appearance of some exotic plants in our region, is it possible to develop this category of tourism, i.e. The tourism of the sun and the sea. I must remind you that in 2005, the government continued, in 2006 (and some of you are here, only some have changed their trainers and coaches and crossed this long deadline into some new clubs), made and adopted the Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Serbia in the period until 2015. Let me remind you that this strategy has just been done by the Croatian firm Horvat consulting, which even in its history of tourism affairs has the creation of Master Plan of the Istrian region. Understand the importance and weight of that company. Why the Horvath Consalting? MPs who have been in MP clubs and in the Assembly are likely to know and remember the debate on this subject, because the company mentioned was over ten times more expensive than all our domestic companies dealing with these areas. What happened -- several million euros went to the beginning of the Serbian tourism development strategy. Public debates, discussions, seminars, study trips... The whole process cost Serbia and taxpayers several million euros. It's not just that. Three thousand people from the tourism area, tourist workers, were involved in this process in 2005-2006. What's going on now? You mentioned the ministry, i.e. the ministry that needs to be on your own, and the arguments of tourism as the most prospective industries, worldly and hopefully Serbian, prove that this is the case, you do not want in any context in the Ministry Act to mention, except that powerful Ministry of Economics and Regional Development. The development of the Tourism Development Strategy has also led to the development of development plans, i.e. master plans for development of tourist destinations, 11 of them. Last is Master plan of tourist destination Zlatibor - Zlatar. I must remind you that tourism is not just ski resorts and expensive shows at world fairs. One data from the previous period: Serbian taxpayers perform at a fair in Moscow costs over 2m euros, and in the number of ino guests from the area, the percentage is almost completely negligible. Why are they spending so much money? Because it's the only way you understand the development and tourism development strategy. I also have to remind you of that terrible revolutionary movie on CNN, where Serbia, as a tourist market, appeared with, I can't remember whether Afghan or Azerbaijani music, and all the details of that film that did not represent the tourist destinations of the Serbian market. We must, whether we want it or not, in order to deal with this topic and to understand the importance of tourism, and the world and the World Tourism Organisation, apart from us, have understood this necessary need, that in the area of tourism, in order to achieve development in this area and this economic branch, we must develop infrastructure activities, then signalling, which one of the previous governments has promised to end up at its last level by 2007. When I say at the last level, I mean every village that's got a chance of being a tourist destination. Gentlemen, we are currently in 2008 and have not begun signalling the borders of the Serbian state. Also, it's a irrational structure of capital in our spas and Republic centers, environmentalism... Here, just one example, what's the reaction, you can imagine. I know my left-hand side doesn't care, they've rejected all these amendments, but for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, I have to point out that you don't do tourism and that you don't consider environmentalism as an integral part of this country's tourism and commitment. What is the guest's reaction when it starts, say, from Old Town to New Belgrade across the bridge to anything around it that is likely as an adventure or adventure, but not as tourism. I ask you one more time, what about the 11 master plans? Do you think that local self-governments, so poor and tortured in the previous period, have the opportunity and the strength to implement the aforementioned master plans for tourism development in these tourist destinations? Probably this thing will be another one in a series of dead letters on paper some of the government brought in. Do you think Serbian tourism should lead the adventures that you, as experts, bring back from abroad or are circled by twos who don't even know where tourist destinations are? These are the experiences of us tourist workers from the field and from meeting these people from the ministry in their tours of our parts. Do you think rural tourism is the opening of destinations and exclusive tourism, ski resorts, where there are no people, and you forget endings like the Milesh-Golden area, where people, these 150,000 people can live exclusively on tourism? You set Bor's head for Serbia's border. And what else is new about your understanding of tourism? Reserves. Since tourism has been compared to reservations, we suggest that you move these 150,000 people out of these parts, because we have nothing to deal with and we have nothing else to live on except from tourism. Another thing in the end, to remind you, if Marks and Engels could happen to hear this socialist international, they would realize that in Serbia there may be a dictatorship of proletariats. Citizens of Serbia, you know that this government has destroyed the proletariat and it doesn't look like this left side of the proletariat?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u676	Miss Natasa Jovanovic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u677	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when in 2005, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we passed one of the system laws, the Tourism Act, which with some (although, insignificant) changes, although we Serbian radicals had over 30 amendments, acceptable from this present-day time distance, because it codified the work of tourist followers in our country and the relationship of those who use services in the country and abroad, we could not even imagine, given that later the ministry, led by then Minister Bojan Dimitrijevic, entered the strategy, not because of him, because you know that it was the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, were already working there by people of tourism professions who had been in the Ministry of Tourism, even in the formerly run by Mr. Cerovic, with enthusiasm to change and to move on the path of this one of Serbia's future, in addition to the grantabril. We are in a situation today that, because of the boastfulness and what Mr. Jorvanka Tabaković said, Mladjan Dinkic wants absolutely all financial flows and I will be wrong if I say at least 60% of the budget to keep under his paw, we do not have a tourism ministry and people who deal with this area, from those who do the most common jobs in the catering sector, so from service providers, through our leading tour operators, say that no one thinks about them and that a whole business branch of which smart people, especially our Russian brothers, are putting an accent, both in their country and in the coming projects. Here, in neighbouring Montenegro. How do you explain when on the agenda of the Montenegrin Assembly today, July 3rd, you have changes and additions to that law, changes and additions to the property laws, that due to the inflow of large Russian capital that is necessary here, both in this capital gas arrangement and in the Banjski and climate centres in Serbia, they today have a law that will allow foreign citizens, investing in the area of tourism, in creating tourist complexes, which is the case and what has started to be done in Montenegro, can have that property in their own personal property, if Roman Abramovich or Oleg Deripasca want to buy some part of the country (of course, limited what number of squares) and to build some magnificent hotel, such as the Hotel "Splendid" (one of which is in Bečići has more announcements that they do not? ) and how are we going to stimulate foreign investors when we don't have a tourism ministry, we don't have a law on spas and climate places? There is our Ambassador Zoran Babic from Vrnjaka Banja. We do not currently have, due to speculation of individuals and non-serious people, nor the constitutional authority in Vrnjačka Banja, and the former president of the municipality, my former colleague, Mr. Jamic, who is one of the top tourist followers, is now sitting and waiting, along with Serbian radicals, will have mercy on this one, on which side he will cover and what will happen, and Vrnjačka Banja has marked a jubilee this year, so 140 years since she started receiving the first tourists in the Banja area. Not to talk about everything we saw during the campaign. Now, what Dinkic, the head of this financial mafia, wrote in the 2008 budget, is that every Serbian radical knows almost by heart, at least when it comes to, and above all, the area that interests him, look at what it looks like. He grabbed everything himself, only interested in these ski resorts, which Mr Nikolic says, and where it doesn't snow, that's how much in Bajcetina Tom Nikolic so much and where he will possibly ski. Well, not ski resorts is Serbia's tourist activity. Didn't we talk about it and go out with the exact data? It's an entire empirical study of both gender and age structures. Here, take just the city of Belgrade, and that is one of the first examples on which to brilliant the future mayor of Aleksandar Vukic. Look at the lack of accommodation facilities in Belgrade. We had this Eurovision when we were hosts. Did you see that? Look, Kragujevac is the same case. If this is a city that has such an industrial and any other perspective, then what about rural tourism that has a foothold and a tradition in the forest area? Let's start with how little money the Knic Tourist Organization gets. To begin with that people who are successfully engaged, like the Milosevic family from the village of Borac, who have been promoted so many times these days on various channels of television, by the inability of the Milosevic family, but above all by Mr Memedovic himself, as well as by his other colleagues, took the same path, to see that it is a medieval city and the rest of that city in the heart of Šumadija, Knic, with the chance to experience prosperity and to develop rural tourism there. You have a bright example of Professor Emir Kusturica and his best intentions are that every one of his earned money, and he's primarily a Serbian patriot, and that was his basic intensity when he managed to do that, making a film and seeing a hill, which the locals said was a blizzard because there's always winds blowing there, so he can't survive anything, or what's made of solid foundation, here, there's something that he says, like an ancient city. It is, he says, the only city where there is no choice because it is obvious and looking at these Democrats, false Democrats, a man saw that in Serbia, who knows how long the path to democratic change is. Look at that bright example. Mr Dragan Markovic-Palma said that the European Disneyland in Paris, which some of you may have visited, is bigger than the Jagodina itself, right? And that's true, and it takes you a few days to go around it, and so it vividly showed the figure of Mickey Mouse, one of Disney's heroes, and it takes you a few days to enjoy that empire, in that fairy tale they made of that complex that exists across the ocean. But why should we rush for it? Don't we have the Oat-Cabler ravine? I saw Mr. Munjic earlier, and I remembered that there was a very stable coalition in Cačka between the SRS, the SPS and the DSS-NS and that one of the first jobs and objectives of the tourist organisation and the town of Cačka itself was just about to take a move where there are seven monasterys in the Ovčar-Cablar ravine to build facilities where passengers can come and stay. All these opportunities and perspectives, and the fact that both Kosovo and Metohija are safeguarded by the care of our country's tourist and historical values, the Banjska monastery speaks well enough. Banjska monastery is one of the oldest monasterys, it seems to me the oldest in Serbia, and we have recently visited it. He has his restored thread, but still thanks to the people who come from that neighborhood, like a gentleman whose name I don't want to mention, but that family is famous and has invested a lot of money to rebuild and to have the brotherhood manifested there after many years. When we were visiting, that is, when we started a campaign from Kosovo and Metohija and ended up visiting the monastic and monastery of Banjska, they told us that it was really amazing that no one asked them from this ministry, no one from the Government of the Republic of Serbia: do you need any money and do you need so many singing songs and healing water that heals among others and boneballs, you can use it, and you have it right next to the sanctuary, and make some object where people will be able to come and heal? Also, if it were known that, otherwise, some Russian partners were interested, but unfortunately, we don't have a law that would allow them to come here. And so from one end to the other of Serbia, I could talk about it for a few hours, it all comes down to the fact that there are no real and true projects. What's written here, the Tourism Development Fund and the money assigned to someone, everything looks like that story of Maria Rasete-Vukosavljevic, when she used the funding from the Stock Fund and opened her mother-in-law there, a discotheque, and it's not tourism, and it's not a possibility to best present our country. We must first of all introduce ourselves in our largest cities, in Belgrade, in Šumadia, both in Kragujevac and in Topoli, in Raca, here, this is what Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović knows, and mine and its origin is on one line from that forest area, but in any case we must take advantage of everything, that the valley of West Morava, and Velika Morava, and the valley of Ibra, and also in our country, where unfortunately we do not have a big river, and that is our beautiful and native Shumadija, which has fantastic conditions for rural tourism, we are potential and we are working on it, and it is strategic development of the landscapes. Then we're going to hire those people who have mostly secondary education, mostly women, so the female person has the most in the structure of the unemployed, and they're waiting for the work bureau, and they'd like to work on these jobs, and then the managers and the people who are going to strategically plan to be us, and thank God, even though those villains did that to us, bombing us with 78 days of the most destructive missiles, that we've preserved both healthy air and healthy country and healthy people, which is most important. As far as we don't care about it, and how many other countries, with far less potential, think and want to attract every tourist to come, gives you the information about the number of tourists who have come and the outflow of tourists from our country. Let me ask you in order, to start with the members of your families, or I have a colleague who's honest and says, "I didn't make it -- the man's a top intellectual and he's been working for so many years, he's behind the book all the time -- to go around with my wife and kids all over Serbia, and I'd like to -- how many of you would really want to do that?" But where to go, and where to find accommodation, and who will and how to meet you there? In some parts of Serbia, the private sector has begun to precede, but these are mostly people returning from abroad who, like this gentleman near Vrsac, have made in the right sense the words of the villa, the capacities that have four and five stars. There are examples like that in Vranjska Banja, right? But we don't need to go any further than to the Republic of Arangelovec Institute, where everything is falling apart, and that old building, which is really old and is almost coming down because of unresolved property relations. Now, this is today's picture and the inability to develop real projects because we don't have a tourism ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u678	Thank you. Mr. Arsen Djuric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u679	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have reported on the amendment submitted by my colleague, Mica Rogovic, to Article 2 of Item 1 where item 11 is amended and reads as follows: "The Ministry of Tourism, Trade and Services". As I come from Zlatibor and am directly employed in the tourism economy, I believe this amendment should be supported, since its acceptance would not increase the number of ministries, but would single out tourism as the most prospective business branch in Serbia from one ministry that has a wide range of activities. The opinion of the professional public is undivided on the fact that tourism should have its own ministry. In previous days, I have had contacts with representatives of professional associations such as Hores, Utah, Atas and all of them believe that tourism, as a branch with a perspective in this country, should have its own ministry that would be with trade and services. As previous speakers have already said, we adopted the Tourism Development Strategy in the previous period, and we adopted the Tourism Act. In the next period, we are expected to adopt the law on spas and climatic sites and a series of sublegal acts that would regulate certain areas in more detail. There has been an increase in investment in tourism infrastructure and I believe that, because of the monitoring of implementation and the strategy adopted, which certainly has its shortcomings, as well as the monitoring of the implementation of 11 master plans made for 11 destinations throughout Serbia, a special ministry of tourism, i.e. tourism, trade and services should be established. Tourism is an economic branch that records the constant growth of tourism traffic. With the potentials that Serbia has, they are not small, primarily I mean natural resources, but also cultural and historical monuments, and because of the adoption of these acts and the laws that await us, because of the implementation of the strategy for Serbia's tourism development, because of the development of clusters that this strategy implies, I believe that this amendment should be adopted and we will vote for it in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u680	Thank you. Mr. Momir Markovic has a word. Your MP group has two minutes to complete. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u681	Gentlemen, when you look at Article 2 and look at the ministries, no tourism is foreseen in any ministry, as one of the branches of which many countries literally live. When you look at Article 30, where are these so-called. the agency, even in this Article 30, has no special organisation to deal with tourism. This wasn't dropped by accident. I ask who in this country will deal with tourism if this is not foreseen in the Ministry Act, neither these organisations that you have foreseen as special, or in the ministries nor in any ministry. Won't it be the privatisation of the ski resort now, then the privatisation of the spa, so everyone at their expense and in their own way will be engaged in tourism? Even if you predicted it so, the state must take care of this branch, which Austria, for example, collects billions of dollars from, of which countries collect billions of dollars in the environment, and of which many citizens of these countries live. I think there's something dangerous hidden behind what's been dropped, another kind of robbery in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u682	Thank you. Please, you can speak for one minute. One minute left. Do you want to follow the Rules of Procedure or is it part of the debate? I'm sorry, the SRS is out of time for this amendment. You have a minute, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u683	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as my colleague Natasa Jovanovic announced, I come from Vrnjaka Banja and strongly oppose that the resort of tourism belongs to the Mammoth Youth Ministry. We are witnessing that Mr. Mladjan Dinkic skis well and that he invests only in ski centres, they had snow or had no snow - never mind. Is a spa like Vranjačka Banja, which, in ten days' time, celebrates 140 years of active tourism activities this year, should wait for Mr Dinkic to suffer from diabetes or the organ disease of the digestive tract, so that Vranjačka Banja gets the funds she deserves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u684	Thank you. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Pocurica has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u685	Dear People's MPs, this is the SRS amendment and it is one of the important issues discussed by this parliament. We weren't just on the trail of the idea that bringing together points 13 and 14 would make one single ministry of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Science and Technology. It wasn't just a matter of our need, but proven, that we rationalise state services, to reduce the number of ministries, the number of secretaries, technical persons, etc., but simply to make one buckle (it's really nothing more natural than higher education and science and technology, which goes along with it), a completely natural relationship and a merger to unite them with one definitely, as they are. If not by all sorts of things for the reputation of all the countries of the former Yugoslav lager, this soc-lager we had, every former state has done and joined the Ministry of Education and Science, though under their authentic names. Some, like Slovenians, have added even technology, some of what was given in our proposal. It wasn't, of course, we were watching it, it was interesting to see how this problem was being approached. It's understandable why we insist on it. As a working body, the assembly body that worked in the past term, most SRS MPs were able to see on both committees that there was an undivided consensus that in one of the next creations of the government law and the law on ministries really came up with the idea that the two ministries would join together. We've never had anything to do with that. However, it could never have been on the agenda. It wasn't the committee, in itself, that the initiator that we're working on is changing. Simply, there was the idea of all the political parties, which the same composition as now, about, these ideas dominated – to create a common single ministry. First of all, that would be functional. Secondly, one educational process, which begins to be followed from preschool education, through secondary, high, to the acquisition of the highest scientific titles, the work of academic high-level institutions, would be united and would take place under some kind of, whatever decentralisation was done in ministries, joint control and common vision. We now notice that many agencies, many bodies within the ministry, are set up to decentralise the ministries, looking either underprivileged tasks that should be done or done often improvised, incompletely. We often encounter a fact that sounds paradoxical to everyone, that some educational institutions, some colleges, say, after a new structure, to have financial independence, have a recognised accreditation to do scientific research, but have no accreditation for academic acquisition of calling, expertise, so they have no legitimacy. As colleges, as higher education institutions, not all received accreditation, and many of those who did not receive it were given legitimacy and a license to be able to do scientific research. What's it gonna be, don't give God a situation, in which one of the same, say, medical colleges of a city would get one and not get another license? Such amazing situations, such a need to look out of another person's window, into another person's yard, how this accreditation body did, whether this accreditation body is compatible, because you can't, by definition, have a college if it doesn't meet both of these criteria and it doesn't have both licenses. I don't want to talk about how many hundreds of thousands, and up to a million dinars, you have to get one license, come a certain commission that sees how many teachers you have, how many students, how high your ceilings are, how many sanitary knots you have, what your program is, how much it's written. Sometimes it's the perfidious Benevolent things you have to satisfy. Some look through their fingers, some don't look at each other, and then you have to do it all over again to do scientific research work from the point of view of demand provided by the Ministry of Science and Technological Development. So, double pitching. And it's only when you have it, it's comforting what, by definition, a higher school institution, called college, actually is. I expected, we in the Committee thought, and generally the political assessment was that the reference bodies would be involved, the Conference of universities, colleges, etc. to launch this initiative, not to enter a new cycle of government with divided ministries. On the side which is good and useful to rationalize it. However, there does not seem to be much will here in terms of rationalisation and the number of people employed in the ministries. Approximatelyly, the ministers had reduced their jurisdiction simply to the authority of the inspection bodies: whether something had happened, whether anyone had complained, whether someone had objected, whether he was an inspector or not. Even so, you've given the minister so much debauchery, so much laziness and ease, and you've set up various bodies that are entirely advisory, helping him, pulling him. The minister would not have a lot of operational problems in order to keep the job from getting over it, but then he would have to apply one advice, another advice, and powers that he has in particular at the National Council for Higher Education, so that he could replace a member of the council if he did not attend meetings, etc. When you go through the site a little bit and you see how many people have held meetings, you can see that these institutions that are rappering to provide the minister with key information on directions and streams of scientific development, deficiting personnel, the development of a higher education system... What have we done with Bologna? - hasn't come out yet, it's been going on for three years, there's never been any concrete information on what's better, what's up there, and it's a unique process that hangs both the education and research systems. So we think it would be really good, I don't think all of your coalition partners, we see now that by Athens you're making new biographies, you're entering Internacional, etc., neither would they, and if they were, however, the same people, they accepted on these committees in informal talks. Nothing is more natural than being like those whose majority in the ruling coalition already apologized, hugged and kissed - former republics, countries in the environment. It's not like they're all so wrong. I hope we're not so powerful as to have 30 and 40 ministries. That withdrawal structure might be a trivial thing. I wanted to talk about a serious thing, and that's what it's gonna cost. It's important for this country and how much it's going to cost. If something can cost less, if it is under the jurisdiction and description of the affairs that the minister himself is conducting so many auxiliary institutions, which help him, indeed one minister with his assistants, his advisors, could easily cover it. All three actions are very closely tied up. Nothing is more natural and tighter than this education system is in some kind of integration. So let's just stop, see if we need workshops for this, too, for that, to go back to the workshops to learn trades, and to the amphitheatres, to the schools, to get those who deal with the higher education process, to get some of the things that we've randomized, that we've just run into in and out of the education system, to change it at the same time with multiple stages, to really try to do it, to see what's better, what's the use. Because Bologna didn't commit us to this kind of detail to do. We can see from a lot of information that it's not easier for professors, who are truly traditionally educated. All those who now hold lectures and lead classes are people who have completed schooling in the old education system. All those who wrote the bill that we adopted while the minister was Vuksanovic, was not Gašo Knezevic, these are people who achieved fame and became famous and admitted by learning by the system we were learning. And now we're faced with the fact that our students are not content with everything, that students have to be given no deadlines, that in many universities they've been laid all July, all August, all of September. It's a piece of work that's already out of line with the law. What's going on? The university conference, the scientific and teaching council, makes some kind of decision. It's just not normal. The law should be respected - you have so many deadlines, so many times you have the right to lay down, lay down, fall down, pass, end of story. Professors have their teaching concepts. No one's going to give up their case that he's been holding so far, and now Bologna's here and he needs to simplify himself. No, he'll say the same thing. But what's the difference? He'll talk for six hours one day, six hours the second day, uninterrupted. It's a complicated relationship that enters, into complex interactions, and a student, the one who listens, which is the recipient of information. Of course, he's not passive anymore, he never was if he wanted to get involved, that's what no one was defending him. Now they're making teachers for you, how to learn fast, integrated. Some Americans are coming, and when you see curriculas, they're not curriculas that are now being made in Athens, the new, washed, washed and all, but was once a doctor of general practice in Doboj, so he went to America and in two years became some high professor and now he's teaching us who we are, let's turn myself off, there are people who are older and more experienced than me, how to teach students. It's lost control, there's no research technology. He brought in some American tricks, how they do it in some of their colleges, some of their experimental centers, some of their workshops, some of their fantasy departments. And an excellent education system, something that we could be proud of, something that neither Milosevic nor Seselj wrote, nor Djindjic, none of them wrote texts in textbooks, was something we had, which was traditionally good, we blindly changed and too quickly without feedback. If all of this were under one hat, if order were to be introduced, we would know feedback, first of all the minister, and then, by passing an account, or by his most advisory body, which is legally mandatory, to place him and the Assembly on the call, or by him himself, and so that if he lays it on us, he would say, and the analysis found that, the weaknesses of the system are these. Now it's a danger who can doctor anything and who will be a master. You know what kind of discussion here was about last term. It would have been simpler and simpler in different circumstances, and we think there really should be a clear, healthy, realistic will in this position block. In a conglomerate of different ideas, I guess this one should be common and unique, that this one ministry, simply someone becomes an assistant and says, if it's meant for me, here, I'll be the deputy, assistant, not to spoil a coalition that is so successful, I'll accept that we don't make two ministries, two ministers, all double, drivers, chefs, drivers, drivers, assistants, etc. That's not even necessary. It is necessary to safeguard the idea of a unique educational space, integrated as much as it can for this country, that you do not have teaching programs that are different at one university in the same case, in Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, as if you do not have internal mobility. How are we going to talk externally about European mobility? And how are you going to get into that program for the first year? Collected points to 60. We could've done it. Europe said very declaratively in the Bologna Declaration. And we could have our subjects stabbed in time and, well, 60 points. We used to have coherents, used to co-operate with other countries of the former Yugoslavia that sought accreditation of students, I know that, accreditation of programs. Deliver the book, plan and program. You write in indexes, indexes are as thick as some day pads from the battlefield, what officers had, those red books, they're indexes now, you know that you have kids. There's all sorts of things written here, that's one descriptive schribomania. There's an institution in every country that checks out, nostics diplomas, curricula and program, and then there's the end of the story. There was nothing too much to do. This is neither the place nor the opportunity to laminate over the old law, to condemn in advance this law on higher education that is valid, which we do not think is, even if it is brutally implemented, not good. Surely there is something wrong with it, and there is probably something that is useful, to bring us closer to this European path, not to erase it, not to bring the ministries together, but to better look at and act more effectively and remove weaknesses. So I think it would be logical for you to support such a proposal, unifying the ministries, for starters, and then the elected minister, with his team, to take over some of the options offered and to consider what is wrong and wrong and, simply, that every ministry should, at least annually, submit a report on its work, not only the financial, never seen, but also the results of its work. We do it through committees, to the extent that we can, but you can tell this question on the board and you'll get a dry answer from the minister in seven to ten days and you won't get another one. And if the political scene and responsible people were to get serious enough, we would certainly have made some significant shift in this important segment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u686	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Maras called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u687	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, violation of the article. 27, 48 and 145. I am sorry that Mr. Bosko Ristic, president of the Justice and Administration Committee, is not here. I'd like you to explain something to me. You are responsible for what is happening, Madam President, for the next reason. We have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration informing us that, considering the amendments submitted on the proposal for this law, they have adopted an amendment to Article 11 submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic of the SPS. I will be free to read the amendment: Article 11 says "except for air traffic inspection" is deleted. Furthermore, this committee informs us that the following amendments have been rejected: the amendment to Article 11, which was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic from the SPS (I will read again what the amendment reads: the words "except for inspection supervision in the area of air traffic" are deleted), and refused the amendment to Article 11 submitted by MP Bozidar Delic, vice-president of the Assembly, which reads like this: the words "except for inspection control in the area of air traffic" are deleted. Please, as the most responsible person in this congregation, explain to us what's going on. Is Mr. Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, who has been really harassing this assembly for two or three days with his behaviour, coming, not coming, and this is not the first time in two or three days to send us a report like this, please explain to us what's going on here. Is the 11th amendment submitted by Mr Djordje Milicevic, MP of the SPS, rejected or accepted? Why was his amendment accepted? Is it just because it makes up the future ruling coalition, and for the same reason, since it does not make the future ruling coalition, the amendment of the Vice-President of the Bozidar Delic Assembly, which is in exactly the same text, has been rejected? I guess it's the same person. That's why I advertised Article 146's injury. The Rules of Procedure, since one MP per member of the law can only submit one amendment. I really don't understand what's going on here. I believe that the colleagues who have now met this are also not clear what is going on, so please, as president of the Assembly, give us an explanation, explain to us and see what needs to be withdrawn here, whether it is accepted, rejected, which is why one is accepted, and which is why the other is rejected, and are in the same text. Don't make such a difference. You said when you entered that place, you'd have the exact same MPs and opposition and positions. Now you're acting in various arches, putting material like this in our hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u688	Thank you. You want to ask the same question? Mr. Delic prayed for a word, since it's the same content. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u689	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we got this half an hour ago. I really wanted to see what the fate of this amendment is for a very important area that is not regulated in the state of Serbia. I expected other MPs to see a great illogicality in this article 11, where it is said of the Ministry of Infrastructure. I was surprised when I read that the amendment, which I wrote, was rejected, and I read immediately in the opening part that the amendment of Mr Djordj Milicevic was accepted. I wanted to read it, and then I see it's all the same. That reminds me, then, of the last call of this National Assembly. Are we here to work in the interests of Serbian citizens, or are we here, in the Assembly, to divide on the left and right, and is only the left hand side in charge of taking care of Serbia's interests? This is very ugly, gentlemen, and if you think this is how it can be done, I'm telling you that on this right hand side, we will present any situation to the citizens of Serbia. Mr. Bosko Ristic is not here. This is very unserious, and when he sends us one of these papers, since I saw that what my predecessor has already said, that Mr. Djorda Milicevic's amendment, and I know that an MP per article cannot give two amendments, I took the opportunity to, in practice, review everything. What is the meaning of this paper signed by Bosko Ristic and the kind of paper we have chosen here by the chairman of the Justice Committee? This is unserious, gentlemen, to be found at, say, a session of a local self-government, not on the largest legislative body of the Republic of Serbia. This should certainly be distracted by Mr. Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u690	Thank you. The comments are quite relevant. And this is how I urge the chairman of the Committee of Mr. Bosko Ristic to join us and give an answer. In case that doesn't happen, and there's a debate going on, I'll make sure I get the information myself and get it to you. So, I'm calling Mr. Ristic. Mr. Marash, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u691	President-in-Office of the Assembly, you seem to have misunderstood me. I didn't comment on this report, I advertised the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. You have to make a difference there. As you make the difference between the opposition MPs and MPs, so you must also make the difference whether I comment on something or advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I've advertised three injuries to the Rules of Procedure here. So, I didn't comment, I advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please call Mr. Ristic as soon as possible. Yesterday he didn't honor us being here, in the Assembly, when we discussed the amendments, he's also not here right now. He makes constant mistakes. This isn't the first time in the last few days we've gotten this kind of material that's full of illogicality. You're responsible, you're the President of the Assembly. I hope you read it or read it to your secretary or any service, so you can see it. So our job is to hunt you down in all this, but you're giving us so much chance to do it, that I'm afraid that we'll sit here for the next few days and just discuss these things.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u692	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure that you have advertised is quite fine, but in order to continue to work on the content that you have presented in your injury to the Rules of Procedure, I have called on the President of the Committee to give an explanation. We're continuing our work. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr Kragovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, on the proposal for a law on the Ministry, I have submitted an amendment which reads: Article 1(2) in point 16. The words 'and the information society' are deleted. Why would I suggest that? For one simple reason, because you have translated this area, the development of information society or information technologies into a commitment in the work of the Ministry of Telecommunications and (as you call it) information society, and I think it would be logical and that this information society is developing through the Ministry of Science and Technological Development. Namely, what's going on? The Ministry of Telecommunications performs the tasks of the state administration in the area of telecommunications, means postal and telecommunications traffic, international telecommunications and postal traffic, creates conditions for carrying out these activities, and I think it should, that it takes a strong ministry to provide all these conditions for citizens to use postal and telecommunications traffic. It is not logical, however, that this ministry is developing an information society, because the development of an information society can only be done through investment in this sphere through education of appropriate personnel, through the creation of available information funds to the largest number of citizens in the state of Serbia. It can't be done by the Ministry of Telecommunications, but the Ministry of Science and Technological Development could do very well. So this part of the paragraph, which relates to the obligations of the Ministry of Telecommunications, which is to define the policy and strategy of building an information society, the preparation of laws, other regulations, standards, measures in the field of electronic business, the application of information and the Internet, the provision of information services, the development and improvement of the academic computer network, the coordination in the development of strategic development documents at the level of the Republic of Serbia, the development and functioning of the information structure as well as other tasks governed by the law, should, therefore, be transferred to this part of the paragraph to be within the scope of the Ministry of Science and Technological Development. We have to admit that it's one branch of science that's incredibly rapidly developing and entering all the pores, in all the areas of man. I remind you that in the 1990s, Germany has decided to set aside 50 billion marks in order to develop this information society in order to make the information technology available to every citizen of the country. Not to mention the second aspect, that the Ministry of Telecommunications must provide these conditions and, above all, to generate profit, to create interest, while the Ministry of Science and Technological Development would rightly have the capacity to make information technology accessible to every citizen through education and investment in information technology. We must admit that Serbia is very late in this field. The reason is that all these events in the last ten or twenty years, because we have been unjustly exposed to sanctions, bombings, destroying our economy and preventing the import of technology into the state of Serbia. The problem and the period must be replaced, and can only be replaced if it is approached seriously. I hope that in the voting day you will accept this amendment, so that the development of the information society, the development of information technologies, will be transferred to the Ministry of Science and Technological Development because it is there that these personnel who are able to ensure the development of the information society. I would like a few more data to be provided in favour of this, because the very sentence shows that the application of information and the Internet, and the development and promotion of the academic computer network, cannot stand in this ministry, the Ministry of Telecommunications, but must stand in the work that belongs to the Ministry of Science and Technological Development. I am convinced that in the voting day you will accept this amendment of mine in order to do this in order to finally take this problem seriously, to make Serbia an information society, to be trained to have every householder, every citizen of this country have a computer and, normally, to know that he uses that computer and that he uses the Internet to strengthen and we can do better. On the other hand, I would like to look back a little bit, if you would allow me, beyond this amendment, so as not to report again when the amendment to the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija is made. It is well clear and loud here that the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija should co-operate with the UN civilian and military mission to KIM, UNMIK and KFOR, based on Security Council Resolution 1244. However, I would add that this is where it should stand - communication and co-operation with any mission other than the United Nations mission is prohibited. We now have an attempt to introduce the Eulex mission to KIM without the consent of the United Nations, which is a violation of all international legal norms. I think this should be in the KIM Ministry's description, especially since it is one obligation, since all those declarations that this high house has brought over over the past few years and commit what should be in the ministry's description of Kosovo and Metohija's affairs. Finally, I would like to say that, despite Belgrade, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia did not want to condemn the unilateral declaration of the Constitution of Kosovo and the Metohija that took place on the 15th, Serbs with KIM, i.e. The councils gathered on Vidovdan, and they represent 100,000 Serbian citizens who went to the polls, not 5, 10, 15 or 20 citizens, as it stands out today in the first place. So, one group of citizens has chosen their committees, these committees have chosen their delegates and a Community Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija has been formed, which is also an answer and non-recognition of Kosovo's unilateral independence and non-recognition of the constitution, so that citizens belonging to the Serbian people and other non-Albanians do not commit that decision. I hope that you will pay more attention and more attention to this assembly in order to live for a modest period of three to six months, so that the Serbs in KIM will have this institution, to which the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia gives us the right, so that we can protect those remaining citizens who are left to live in the area of KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u694	Thank you. Mr. Veroljub Arsic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u695	Ladies and gentlemen, when a man reads this law a little bit and reads the amendment submitted by counterpart Ljubomir Kragovic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, it would be said that there are only small considerations in the opposition programme, or the ruling majority. But it's not exactly like that, and I can't agree that we can only interpret it this way. First, I have to say that on this part, meaning the information society, the state has failed in every way. As much as you're trying to show how we're making progress and going to Europe and the 21st century full force, I can say that's just bullshit and lies. Still over 90% of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and internet users can choose between several operators, or a provider (whatever you will), and the worst of all is our own Post Office, which has a certain infrastructure, has a ownership stake in telecommunications lines, and has the least permeable power of all operators currently present in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. To make things even worse, present operators are using no other infrastructure but exactly the infrastructure that belongs to the Ministry of Telecommunications. Let someone explain to me now how it is that someone else, setting up only one cable, most often, and that primary cable, has far more permeable power when it comes to information obtained via the Internet and using the Ministry of Telecommunications infrastructure, and only the Ministry, more technologically advanced and stronger, gives users of certain internet services the weakest possible packages. Here I will point out the SBB or Soros, which is present everywhere in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. There is no city that has taken up certain infrastructure when you were in power in some local self-government and signed some contracts. And today in the municipalities, we're struggling with them, how to make them competitive, and how to create conditions, like local self-government, and the ministries themselves, who are obliged to help local self-government, do nothing about it. That's the problem. What does it look like now? Em, which most users are forced to address Sorosha for internet services, em, which uses no other infrastructure but one belonging to the Ministry of Telecommunications. How? They set up the most common cables, it's the primary line, they don't have the technical ability to use secondary lines, to further expand the network, but they're absolutely using the network of the Ministry of Infrastructure, they're paying for the cheap linkage, and they're taking the biggest money from citizens who use Internet services. That's what it looks like today, since you've been in power. So the only one who can get in the way of a cable operator's behavior is the Telecommunications Department. But it doesn't. You're saying we're going to the 21st century. I agree, but this way we won't get anywhere. You can't start any serious business today, not a single serious activity, without the Internet – to collect information, to send information, and even to save time when it comes to electronic payment. Will you in this exchange of information provide an opportunity to control information from someone who is not from the state, someone who is not a Serbian citizen? Are you aware that at some point he can block the flow of any information, whether it's a state institution, whether it's legal or physical? What damage could an economy have to do with it? Huge. Such a system as it is now in the field of information can allow a few people to unauthorizedly control the complete flow of information in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That is why it is the idea of this amendment that the ministry which has so far not given certain results when it comes to this area will finally be transferred to another ministry, which, with professional people, will be far more professional and less burdened profits and fees now charged by certain directors in telecommunications, to equip the state with a quality IT system, and that with such a high quality information system, the state performs on the market, to fight, to get as many users as possible, to achieve income, to protect the state interest, to protect citizens from being misused during the transfer of information and thus to provide certain funds for the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Now, in the way you've proposed this new ministry law, it will continue as usual, and it certainly won't, as you say, lead us terribly quickly to the 21st century.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u696	Thank you. Mr. Ristic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u697	Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that there has been a mistake in the report given to the Assembly by the Justice and Administration Committee, and I have given the Office to remove this lack of confusion. And last time I said the board would try to do the right thing. We'll take steps towards the Service, which made a mistake like this. As far as the amendments are concerned, the amendment was accepted and should only stand in the part that was accepted. Otherwise, the amendment was not rejected, Mr. Milicevic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u698	Mr. Delic has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u699	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what have we heard from Mr. Bosko Ristic? Nothing. He went out for a pay phone and tried to accuse professional services of being guilty of this. Gentlemen, whoever signs an act is to blame for the contents of that act. But it's not just that. Mr. Bosko Ristic says the amendment has been accepted. Now I want to say something else. Law proposals can be made: every MP, government or 30,000 citizens – so says our Constitution. If the Government is the one, as it is in our case, which gives the largest number of legislative proposals, then every amendment that comes from this left hand side, gentlemen, is under question, because that means that you are insecure because you are making an amendment to your proposal. That's possible, though. It is possible that during the time that all MPs will receive this proposal and some amendment may occur. The amendments prefer that this right-wing party, which has not had the opportunity to participate, is trying, in the interests of citizens and this country, to correct a certain legislative proposal. I can accept this as a technical mistake, but it's not the service, it's you. How will you, Mr. Bosko Ristic, explain to me that you accepted the same amendment, Mr. Djorda Milicevic, on Article 11, in one part, and in the other part refused? How is it that the same proposal, absolutely the same as I did, is not important that I gave it and that it was accepted in the assembly service five minutes before the amendment that came from the post, by the SPS, how will you in the Voting Day, Mr Bosko Ristic, because I will go out again for this pay phone, that the citizens of Serbia again hear that you are inserious and that you are inseriously leading an important assembly committee, that the exact same text, just because it comes from the opposition side, do not accept? Is that simply possible? Did you have such a passion that it bothered you that the amendments proposed by the MPs, one from the position, one from the opposition, were accepted, or do you mind that one amendment proposed by Bozidar Delic? That's what you were supposed to answer for here in a pay phone. And don't call on congregation service. It may be a technical mistake, but with your signature, you accept a mistake and it's all yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u700	Mr. Ristic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u701	What I said about technical error, it still stands. It is a mistake for the same amendment to be put into the part where the amendments are accepted and supported by the Committee and in the part where it stands out that it has been rejected. I have now signed a request to correct the error and the report will be divided in the next ten minutes to all MPs in the Assembly. As for the content of the amendments, if anyone wants to correct the text of the bill, then he should be pleased that the standard contained in the amendment of the other MP has been accepted. Therefore, if you wanted to fix something, then that goal was achieved because we accepted the amendment in the same text on the proposal of another MP. As for the question whether the two amendments with the same content should have been adopted, it is not technically possible. We can't standard the same legal situation twice. This would then trigger a new session of the Legislative Committee, which would have to clarify the text and offer the Assembly a correction of the text in the Voting Day. We can't adopt two amendments with the same text. It's like getting two identical bill proposals, so we both plead on one and the other. So, technically, it was done the way we thought it was the most complete, with no intention of discriminating anyone. Let me remind you of another situation, which is a practice in this House, which is that committees do not discuss the amendments of those who do not come to explain them on committees. On the contrary, we have opened a discussion of every amendment, including yours. Therefore, there is no discrimination, although there is a position in the Assembly in some committees not to consider amendments to those who are not reasoned on the Committee itself. We have fully protected the rights of MPs, but it is the right of the board member to declare whether or not he supports the amendment. Your amendment is not supported for legal reasons. The right of board members to vote, there is a note about it, and there is also a report that you received in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u702	The word is Mr. Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u703	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is good for the citizens of Serbia to hear. So the same, absolutely the same text, I didn't mind it being said that the amendment they submitted was accepted, because it's normal that a hundred amendments can be per member and can happen to be the same, as in this case, absolutely the same text. What Mr. Ristic is saying is nonsensical. This is a logic dispute, and it makes sense. One other thing, gentlemen, about your board. I said the amendment was accepted into the congregation service five minutes before that, and it was up to this amendment. You've discussed the amendment I've submitted before. Therefore, everything you said absolutely does not stand and about it, Mr. Bosko Ristic, take care of it in the future. What you're doing is a disgrace to all of us here. You're embarrassing us all with your work. Please don't do this in the future because this is what the citizens of Serbia are looking at.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u704	The word is Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u705	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, within these few days as far as this Parliament is concerned, here, Bosko has written to us, delivered several documents to the MPs and had to apologize twice. Is there a problem with professional services? I don't believe it, because these same professional services have been following this parliament for a long time, there are no new faces, people are verifiable, experienced and not to be blamed. Is that the inexperience of Bosko Ristic? I don't believe it either, because Bosko Ristic, I've known back ten or fifteen years, shows up in political life, and he's an MP from a bulldozer revolution here, I don't know if he's ever been before. Yes, I'm sorry, he was, because that vampire board session was scheduled in one hour and so on. Is this a jester of MPs? Yes, it is. Is this a mix of Serbia and the Serbian public? Yes, it is. Mr Ristic, as an experienced politician, as an experienced MP, you adopt the same amendment on the one hand, and on the other hand you refuse, or two amendments in the exact same text, one you refuse, one you accept. It's okay to explain that I cannot accept two amendments with the same text. But look when Mr. Delic's amendment arrived at the office at 11.40 p.m. When did Mr. Djorge Milicevic's amendment arrive? At 11:45. By the logic of the matter, if any logic can be applied in your operation, especially two or three days ago, you have had a fight with logic, or you want Serbia to argue with logic, and to accept your insubstantial explanations, by the logic of the matter, you had to discuss the amendment of General Delic first, and only then did you accept the amendment of Mr Milicevic. By the logic of things, if the same amendments, if the text is absolutely identical, you had to either accept General Delic's amendment or reject the amendment and General Delic and Mr Djord Milicevic. Is that supposed to mean fortifying that coalition of yours before the government was made? I don't believe it, because I know you as a pretty serious man, although in these few days you've been absolutely unserious. But when I look at those outflows of tenderness in Greece yesterday, anything is possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u706	Mr. Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u707	Ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion, we are witnessing that law is applied in different ways. If you have the content of an amendment in full equal, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in which case what should you do? The board had to discuss the amendment that came in order, which is General Delic's amendment, and to make a decision on it. If the second amendment is the same content, then, logically, both amendments are adopted, but the law will not enter into that it is the amendment of General Delic or of this other MP. In order to overcome this matter, it is best that these two amendments return to the Committee and that the Committee puts its decision out of force, on the formal side alone. Secondly, the Committee finds that the amendments have been tabled by the MPs to the member, that the content of both amendments is the same and that the decision is made. But the decision must be made - the amendments of General Delic and the other MP are adopted, and that is when it comes to one amendment. Only the content of one amendment is entered in the text of the law, and in fact two amendments to the same provision of the article are the same. The law will only be what the Committee adopts, which is that one amendment has been submitted by two MPs. This crisis can only come out so much that these two amendments are treated equally. Don't make a selection, I don't think so. Gentlemen of the DS, obviously on this case you've shown that it's a coalition partner, so now he needs to have a priority. But whose amendment had come before, he has to get rid of it. If the second amendment of the same content has arrived, a single decision shall be taken and one content shall be entered in the provisions of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u708	The word has been given by the mandated representative Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u709	I am an authorised representative of the motionors, and I would like to say that we accept the amendment that MP Bozidar Delic submitted to this article 11, so there is no need for further debate on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u710	The word is Mr. Milos Aligrudic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u711	May I have your attention, Mr. Ristic? A mistake has been made, only I would disagree with you if it were an administration or service error, and especially I cannot agree with the words that someone should be sanctioned there. That's absolutely unacceptable to me. Even if someone in the Service makes a mistake, someone who signs the text of the report and is signed by the chairman of the Committee, I guess he reads the report. If someone participates in the Committee's work and is voted and determined from the voting minutes that it has been voted to accept Mr Milicevic's amendment and to reject Mr Delic's amendment, which is in the same text, then that means that it is possible that the official has made a mistake, but it is not possible that you have made a mistake. It is impossible that, as chairman of the Committee, you did not read the amendments. It is not possible that you have not seen that Mr. Delic's amendment is to delete the words "except for air traffic inspection" and that Mr. Djordz Milicevic's amendment reads that the words "except for air traffic inspection" are deleted. It's the same text. You had to pay attention to that. If you didn't pay attention to that, and you voted for automation by giving a member of the ruling coalition the opportunity to have the amendment accepted, and the member of the opposition's amendment rejected, then you made a mistake, no official. It is possible that Mr Milicevic's amendment is on both sides of the report, and on the side of the report that he was accepted and rejected. I can take that as a mistake. It's an administrative mistake. No one would advertise that kind of mistake in particular. This is where the problem is born in a different sense, a different level. Because one amendment with the same text was rejected because it was submitted by the MP of the opposition, and the second amendment with the same text was accepted. It has nothing to do with the Service. That's what you had to notice. If you're telling me you didn't notice, because a different mistake couldn't be stolen, then it means that you, Mr. Ristic, are not doing your job well as the chairman of the Justice and Management Committee. There's no other secret, it's so simple, it's very simple. Believe me, I can't accept the thesis of making excuses for this speaker that someone in the Service will suffer the consequences, and those who receive three or four times the salary of us MPs, who certainly have a salary greater than they are for how much greater and more responsible we are, especially when it comes to this level of responsibility. Let go of the spellings. Let's see if something in the text was subdued, and then the computer moved to the other side when it was typed. It can happen and no one would ever react to it. We're responding to this other thing. Maybe it's a mistake, but it's a mental error. It's a mistake on your part and you can't transfer it to anyone else. It's okay, the promoter's representative has now said that the amendment of Bozidar Delic is also accepted because it's logical, it's the same text, and it's something that can satisfy this situation, but your explanation, Mr. Ristic, is absolutely unsatisfactory, offensive. Don't ever do that. Do not transfer to people who are innocent and who represent officials in this country your mistake, what you did out of recklessness and because you were careless as chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u712	The word is Mr. Vladan Batic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u713	I just want to thank Mr. Ratkovic for accepting the amendment. I suggested, like someone with experience, because there's no need for tension. Indeed, when looking at the same text, the first order was the amendment of the opposition MP, and it appears that he was immediately rejected. It is said well - amendments to the Members of the People's Parliament are accepted, that and that, in the same text, etc. So this is a good solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u714	The word has the magistrate Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u715	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here are two lawyers who tried to save the third lawyer from responsibility, but I am really asking you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, how long will you suffer this legal and political rape committed against the MPs by the board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who are headed by the DS people? You can be as bad as you want. Here, I ask you, gentlemen of the DS, have we received any valid reports from Mr Bosko Ristic since the start of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's session with this agenda? Did we win? The other day I read a report in which, first of all, we do not know what law we are discussing, whether the law is called the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys or called the Law on Ministrys, so it is not known who is chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration, firstly the chairman of the Committee, Vlatko Ratkovic, signed by Committee President Bosko Ristic. Here, today is the same situation, even worse. And then Mr. Bosko Ristić, instead of taking responsibility for himself and saying: "People, I'm not into this job, obviously I'm not good at it, I don't understand myself in my Rules of Procedure, right – he says it's a professional service. How is it possible that the professional service should always schedule on his board? I guess there are professional services in other committees of the National Assembly and no one has a problem with the professional service except Mr. Bosko Ristić. Is it some conspiracy against Bosko Ristic, that someone might not hate him? What's this about? I am really asking you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, you are the most responsible for the legal work of the National Assembly. The legality of the work of the National Assembly implies that the Assembly Committees also work in accordance with the Constitution, the Law and, above all, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In doing so, Mr. Bosko Ristic will not go out on his own, first, for this pay phone and say: "A mistake has been made," but we, the MPs, must open four eyes when we read the reports coming from his board and see that there is no marifetluk, let the fraud, let the lie, let it be false. I think it is high time that you, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, asked yourself how committees operate in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and whether there is some legal and political mechanism to protect MPs from this disgrace and this disgrace. Mr. Bosko Ristic, what are the legal reasons why one amendment should be rejected, the other accepted, and one and the other amendments are identical in content? What are these legal reasons when both amendments are fully identical in the draft law? As my colleague Petar Jojic explained well to you, he will not write in law when he is definitely finished... (President: Time. Here, I'm finishing up... This part was proposed by Bozidar Delic, and this part was proposed by a gentleman whose amendment was accepted. So, that, Mr. Bosko Ristic, is absolutely ridiculous. It's the easiest thing to say for your ignorance and your nonsense: there are some legal reasons there. What are the legal reasons, no one lives in this assembly except for Mr. Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u716	Thank you. The word is Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u717	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, in Article 104, in all respects. What's going on in the last three or four days is really an amazing performance that this side here is carrying towards us (shows left). That really offends even the average intelligence. I'm a communicative, social and very subtle person, and what I'm experiencing here is really driving me into doubt with how many different attitudes and views I'm looking at. But something I've been fighting for three or four days not to go out and not say I wouldn't take the time is something that's going on here at the chair. I ask you, Madam President, to sort of remind these two-thirds of your left side, that they do not comment on certain views that are very serious on the right hand side of the Parliament. In the last three days we have advertised over 50 violations of the Rules of Procedure, we have asked over 70 parliamentary questions and we have advertised who knows how many members of the violations of the Constitution. During that time, your left side is constantly, especially Mrs. Komic, with her non-verbal communication, some smiling, some conversations, drawing attention. Since I'm a very communicative and social person, she's terribly bothering me with those attitudes. You know how? Yesterday at 14.20, he spoke to his colleague Martinovic, and on two occasions, in 45 seconds, she commented on it this way (shows hands) once, the second time opening her mouth, and for the first time not opening her mouth, communicating with the front lines here. Well, what more does it look like? Are we here to make jokes? The lady's always smiling. I don't know what she's on. What kind of social life does she lead after the congregation? Is someone seriously calling out something, if someone's bringing up an anecdote or some joke, she thinks everything's funny. She doesn't get her smile off her face all day. I don't know what she does when she comes out of the congregation, but I wish I could do something like that in such a serious situation, just laugh all day. Come on, guys, get serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u718	Thank you. There's a word from Miss Natasa Jovanovic, so Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u719	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam President, Mr. Ristic, this is not your first legal screw-up. I believe that, with the guffs you make every day, all your clients, and what little you had, from your law firm, you'll drive them away because when people think who should defend them... Yes, he says Mr. Batic will come to him. The competition is great, but you have a public stage, so the Serbian Parliament speaker, to convince people that you are capable enough and ready to take some major responsible cases. Oh, you see how you're acting? You are bringing the entire congregation and the people's messengers into error. This is not the first time, because I have to tell you, I would just like to teach you something, so I will return you to that period from the time when Ms Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, as an experienced politician and MP from that time on, knows very well, when there were two Assembly councils, the Greater Citizens and the Greater Republic, at present, with your will and will of Montenegrin separatists, the destroyed Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and, of course, when we MPs of the Greater Citizens, on a proposal from some law, where we were MPs and colleagues Jojic and later on, a colleague of Đukić-Dejanović, and adopted an amendment of some MPs to some draft laws, and of course, as more bodies, the same should have been adopted in the Greater Republic, it happened absolutely in the same text to the amendment from the Montenegrin delegation, or from some of those parties who were delegated to the United States and the same Republic of Croatia. What is the mechanism, then, for every normal man and no contact with legal science? That they're in the same text. Even here, if you pay attention, in one word only and, if you will, and in the graphic solution of this amendment, it is not equally done by colleagues from the SPS and Mr Delic, but the essential content is quite clear. Mr. Ristic, you'd be much more interested, and now I'm going to tell you why, but there's no way you're getting any of these disputes to lead them to the courts, because you've shown you're a bad lawyer because you'll see what amount of money is going around the damage claims, precisely because of the civil aviation director's behaviour. That is why it is good that colleagues have written this amendment because so far the damage claims have already exceeded $50m. Imagine if you had a case like that. How lucky you would be to appear before a court with such a reparable claim! But no one's going to see you now, neither is one who's going to be tried for tomorrow, or for chickens, believe me, because you've been screaming so much these days, Mr. Ristic, that I really don't know if you could have made yourself a worse anticlam. There's one more thing I'd like to say. Someone who has dealt with regulations and what is called a court, and in fact is a quasi-zamat, an anti-state, or an anti-Serb UN tribunal, in The Hague, I must also have you, Mr Ristic, as well as the general public, although it is news that, already through the cyron goes through the electronic media, to inform us that, and we were right when we have claimed all the time since its founding, was founded exclusively to condemn Serbs who have defended their territory, a final judgment was reached today for Naser Oric, who was directly responsible for over 3,000 Serbian victims in his area of responsibility, which is really creepy and what is scandal. On the other hand, the announcement of a friend of yours from the DS, Foreign Minister Rocen of Montenegro, that the former Yugoslav republic will recognise the independence of the Cypriot quasi state of Kosovo, as they say, is something that should worry you much more than this mistake that happened to you, but not from speed, but obviously from ignorance.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u720	He's got a word for it, Professor. It's the Boys' Paja.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 104, item 1, where MPs are said to be obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. When I quote this, I mean Mr. Bosko Ristic. Interestingly, when a man looks at our rules of procedure, in the next change, we will probably have to make some changes in Article 27, where it's nice to say what the President of the Assembly has to do, and it's said: "the time and harmony work of the National Assembly" is being done," and we will now have to add: "legally to the proper work of these bodies" because you see what is happening to us. In a hurry, the newly created coalition or family wanted to come up with two new laws. Here, within two days we already have two corrections. You received a correction signed yesterday by Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic. That's where the bill promoter was government. It's not the government. It's 122 MPs. We have received that, as a proposal, these laws were directed by Mr. Kostunica, which is not true. A few minutes ago, we got another correction. What's the problem? The problem is that Mr. Ristic, who is a lawyer, is really unprofessionally interpreting the laws. He even went so far as to try and abuse legal science, to say that it is illogical, unprincipled and that it is impossible to do anything that is quite possible and that in a number of previous cases in this House we could bring, that if two different proposings have the same form of amendments, their amendments would be adopted. It's even scarier that he served here and it's not true, so he said he was first the SPS amendment, and first Mr. Delic's amendment was in order and he had to be considered. The tip of everything is a degutant finding that it's the technical service. That's rude, Mr. Ristic. A man can make a mistake, and we would never seek sanctions against technical services. It's all your fault, because your signature confirms what's written. The signature doesn't serve for a parade. You know it better than I do. He confirms that what is stated is true or that you consider it true. So be an honest man, take responsibility for yourself, don't invite honest people from technical services here to help, blame them and sanction them. It's not an honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u722	Mr. Professor. Zoran Shami has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u723	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure even though I rarely do so. It is the position of Article 1 225, which reads: "The Members of the People have the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the Members of Parliament". We are now entering the period when the session is insignificant, since Mr. Ristic has left. Why do I say that? Yesterday we discussed amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act and there were 12. Today we are discussing amendments to the ministry law and there are at the very end of 76. We've got one of these camera amendments, which no one's bothered to make a logical connection in any way. There are identical amendments, as with the amendment of the gentleman, I think, Milicevic and Delic. Yesterday we had four identical amendments to Article 2, if I'm not mistaken, from different parliamentary groups. In theory, there may be seven identical amendments because there are seven different parliamentary groups sitting here in the hall right now. Everyone has the right to submit an amendment. Let me tell you right now, it's not an amendment to the author's work, so it's important who wrote the piece and who was the plagiarizer. No, the amendment is an amendment. So I'd be glad if six of my colleagues had the same opinion as me. I don't want to go into another story because there's a follow-up story, which is that I can look for some essential connections, so some amendment can differ in one word, and that basically means the same thing. It's already a tough thing, so I don't want to talk about it. I would also ask the President of the Assembly and the Secretary of the Assembly to make a small effort to get amendments drawn up by the members. It doesn't matter if someone handed over the amendment at 11.25 or 11:45 or I don't know when. We need to put them in some logical order. If they are the same amendments, say, my and Mrs Tabakovic, or someone third, fourth, fifth, put them together and say: they have submitted the amendment individually to you and these MPs, in an identical text that reads so on. If it had been done, Mr. Ristic wouldn't have the problems he has, he probably wouldn't have had them, I guess he'd understand that it's the same text (I'm not sure about that, though), and this is completely pointless. It is absolutely pointless to accept the amendment of an MP and such an identical amendment refuses. Wait, are we going to vote twice on that amendment? It's not quite clear to me. Then one day we'll accept the amendment, and the same one we'll refuse. What then, did he enter the law or didn't he enter the law? It's complete nonsense. What concerns me is, allow it as a final comment, we had a problem with the Legislative Committee yesterday, and today we have a problem with the Justice Committee. Something, gentlemen of the law, is not working very well for us. You take this as an evil remark by a mathematician. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u724	Mr. Buha has a word, too, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have experienced a situation where a representative of the position says that a legal mistake has been made and that the error has been eliminated in a way that the promoter has accepted Mr. Delic's amendment. What's the problem? The problem is that before that, we heard from the chairman of the Committee on Justice and the administration that it is technically impossible to accept two amendments in the same text. What is the right of the legislator to violate what his party colleague told him, from which he draws the legal basis for accepting such an amendment? Look, it's a legal technical error that was meant to end up with the responsibility of professional services. Professional services have a responsibility. We have experienced here in the Assembly that we are receiving illegal provisions, anti-constitutional provisions, to go through the hands of all the lawyers and professional services in the ministries, committees and commissions of the Government, and in the committees of the Assembly, to finally come here and then to realize that it is an illegal provision. I'm sure 50 people, by the law of the law, don't read. Because if he reads, they'd remove that flaw. Where's the responsibility? It is responsible for the president of the assembly and for the secretary of the assembly, so I warn the president of the assembly, and the secretary of the assembly, this is not how it can be done. And the worst responsibility lies with people who give us interpretations that something cannot be done, because there is no basis in legal regulation (I don't know in which, we haven't heard). His colleague, the same board president, says the amendment is accepted. So the same man, in the same function – what cannot be done can be done. It doesn't have any legal logic, it doesn't have a racio, and I'm warning the president and secretary of the assembly again to take care of this. This isn't the first legal error, but it's essential, and it's real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u726	Thank you. The word is Mr. Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u727	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, he says, he wasn't beaten by his mother for gambling, but for taking it out. Trying to get it out through the service, Mr Bosko Ristic presented to you, the MPs, a correction of the report by the Justice and Administration Committee, saying: In the report of the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of the draft law on ministries in particular... in the section of the Report, which lists the amendments which the Committee has decided to propose to the National Assembly to reject, paragraph 32, which reads as 'Article 11, which was submitted by the MP Đorđe Milicevic', is deleted. So, with this paper, Mr. Bosko Ristic tried to delete this part of the report that reads the amendment of MP Djordz Milicevic. And it remains now that the same amendment is in this upper part where it says that the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the Justice and Administration has accepted the amendment of Djorđa Milicevic, and Mr Bozidar Delic's amendment remains in this section where he says it is deleted. Nor would that be a problem if Bosko Ristic, as chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration, did not abuse what was sitting in that place and did not take amendments in order, as they arrived at the National Assembly, in the office, where the amendment of the People's MP General Bozidar Delic arrived at 1140 and the amendment of MP Djorđe Milicevic at 11:45. He could accept both amendments and formulate them as one because, as Mr. Jojic said, he did not say who proposed the amendment and who contributed to the legislative proposal being perfected and improved, etc., but he had to consider the amendment of General Delic, then only then Mr. Milicevic's amendment and, if he adopted General Delic's amendment, then it would only be that Mr. Milicevic's amendment was in the same text. There's not much trouble around here. There is, gentlemen, there is. The amendment of one MP cannot be favoured, at least two hours later in the ministry, in the office, and the amendment of another MP, just because it belongs to the other parliamentary group, to refuse. Therefore, I think that Bosko Ristic has not been removed with this paper, and I think it would be best for this Parliament to resign as chairman of this committee and to have someone who understands himself a little more in law than he does, and believe that it is not difficult to find, and among the students of the right, those who understand more than he is rightly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u728	According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u729	Article 104. Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I'm really sorry that Mr. Bosko Ristic is not here right now because I don't like to criticize anyone if he doesn't sit in the hall. I like to speak directly. However, if I were to wait for it, I'd probably wait a long time. These mistakes that are happening are certainly the fruit of not the fact that Bosko Ristić does not know the matter. I think the problem is something else. In the last term, I was a member of the Justice Committee. We were the ruling coalition. Mr. Petkovic chaired the committee and, believe me, every time we had a problem providing the quorum because Bosko Ristic was either on the highway ramp, or his car broke down, or he had an important trial and that, believe me, was terrible. I've told the head of the Parliament Club several times, which is here in front of me, that Bosko Ristic really can't do the job and find a solution. Look what happened now. Instead of finding another solution, a man who wants to work and not make mistakes like this, the DS Parliament Club rewards Bosko Ristic for all the non-arrivals and puts him as chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee. That's your problem. You'll have big problems all the time. It's an extremely important committee. Since we are the same professions and me and Mr. Ristic, we are lawyers by profession, I believe that someone who is actively engaged in law enforcement and is not on permanent work cannot be the chairman of the Justice Committee. I'll also tell you very honestly that a man who works actively in law enforcement shouldn't even be a member of the Justice Committee, because we here often banish witches and say that there's a member of the board of directors in a city in conflict of interest, and believe that there are people on the Justice Committee and that in conflict of interest, but we'll talk about it another time, because in their midst they have big influences on those who share justice. The DSS-NS Parliament Club has lawyers in its ranks, and I'm sure they're all in constant labor. It is also a responsibility to the citizens of Serbia, both to the Assembly, and to one of the very responsible jobs of the Justice Committee. Mrs. Kolundzija, since there is no Bosko Ristić, that's your problem. I have best suggested to you that you find a better solution because I think we will often possess this pay phone here because Bosko Ristić will not be responsible for this job. So he certainly can, but it is impossible to be at the same time in court, both at the Justice Committee, and at the Serbian Parliament. That's really impossible. I think the chairman of the Justice Committee must be at full-time work if the Assembly is to function properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u730	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Vasiljevic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the MP ZeljkoVasiljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to the amendment story, I'd just like to look back on this discussion that's been going on for two hours. Why did this congregation waste two hours in discussing and solving problems like this? We had the same problems last year, that is, in the last session, when we repeatedly objected that the opposition amendment was not accepted, and the amendment of the position representatives accepted even though they were identical texts. I thought Mr. Dulic and I agreed that this would never happen again. Given that this is the beginning of a new calling, I don't think such mistakes should happen anymore and that opposition MPs and positions don't share what the amendments have given, and if they have given them in the same text, it has to stand. I would also like to point out that this committee has accepted the suggestion of our member, i.e. the SPS member on the Committee, Mr Milisav Petronijevic, to do this exactly so, that both amendments, i.e. one amendment in the same text of both MPs, would not be considered, would not come to this situation to lose two hours. That is why we would like to warn the representatives of this committee that in the future, they are paying more attention to what experienced MPs who are taking part in the work, such as Mr Milisav Petronijevic. Now let's move on to this amendment. And last year I submitted an amendment almost in the same text, and last year we didn't have a majority for it, but I must say, with pride, that last year, about 111-112 MPs voted for this amendment, which was probably a record by number of votes for an amendment submitted by the opposition MP. Otherwise, what is the essence of this amendment? The amendment to Article 2 of point 17 is that the current Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is renamed as the Ministry of Labour of Veteran and Social Policy. It seems irrelevant, cosmetic, but it's essential. For what reason? First, let's state some of the reasons why I submitted this amendment. One of the basic reasons for the change in the ministry's name is historical. Serbia, I am proud to point out, is the fifth country in the world to have a law on the protection of veterans. In 1863, the first veterinary law was passed, and we can be proud of it. By 2000, the ministry had never been formed without having a name. In different times, different terms were used, which did not reflect the importance of this population for the country. By 2000, there was the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. With the arrival of the new government in 2000, in the name of the ministry no longer existed the term of the fighters, and that initially sounded to us veterans as if it wasn't very important. However, we have seen that this is very important because the country's attitude towards this population in the previous eight years has been disastrous. I'm not going to say that the only reason for this bad relationship is because it wasn't in the name of the ministry to say veterans or fighters, but it must have something to do with it. The political level that the state has taken over and given to the people who need to take care of this population is really low, and this is today the assistant minister. After last year's change of the Law on Civil Servants, when ministerial assistants became state officials, this population in Serbia will not be concerned by political figures. It's a practice shown by the previous three or four governments. All the ministers in charge of this area raised their hands on this and ran away from the problems facing this population. In order to highlight the importance and weight of these problems, I repeat again, this population has been pushed to the social margins. If that weren't the case, would it happen to us that in 2002 and 2003 the government and then the minister tried to pass a law in the Serbian Parliament that reduced these people's rights by 20 per cent? Only by fierce action, or protests that wartime military peoples, families of fallen fighters and veterans had, did we manage to prevent it. The situation was repeated in 2005 and 2006. We had to defend our rights on the street again, we had to fight for the rights we'd acquired through history. I must tell you that the last law in this area was passed back in 1998, which still knows the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, still knows Montenegro and still treats all those, to say the nonsensé of that period. He's almost inapplicable for all of it. We really think and strongly advocate, as the Serbian Veterans Movement and as the SPS-PUPS-JS parliamentary group, that this amendment will be accepted because it will fundamentally change the relationship between society and the state towards this population. Are there legal conditions for this? Absolutely. So, in the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 69, the constitutionalist prescribed a special commitment by the state to protect the population of veterans, wartime wartime disabled and families of fallen fighters. The Law on the Rights of Fighters, that is, on combat-involvement protection, exists, it is from 1998, but it is still in place today, so it really has every legal basis for this ministry to be called this name. Another essential reason why this population should be singled out from the social protection category is that, in essence, all the incomes that the state sets aside for veterans, wartime disableds and families of fallen fighters are compensations for damages and national recognition. There's really no connection or touchpoints to social giving this population has any. Unfortunately, this treatment, that this is one social category, that all those social standards that apply to social categories apply to it, we are in a difficult situation and we are one of the social categories and we are a very endangered social category. I would appeal here to those who did not want to support this amendment on the Committee, and they belong to parties who advocate a new system of European values. I would really like to point out what a system of values is in this area in some countries of Europe. Let's take, say, France, which according to this population has a very correct, not to say the best, but a very correct relationship. They respect their veterans, even those who belong to the Foreign Legion, for their national holiday. And it's not just a relationship to these people, it's a relationship to the future of the state, to the state and to future generations. Because, indeed, if you have a bad relationship, and Serbia today has an extremely bad relationship with these people, you can't expect some future generations to sacrifice themselves and agree to fight for that country. Although it seems to some today that Serbia will never be in a position to maybe use weapons to defend its territorial integrity, but believe me, it is also the '90s. The majority of the people of Yugoslavia thought that it might be '99. In the year most Serbian citizens thought it would never happen to them, you always have to count on war not only to begin with your wish, but it mostly starts with someone else's wish, and you're just collateral damage. I hope that in the day of voting, most MPs will accept this amendment of mine, for a number of reasons. Because we no longer have protests of war veterans on the streets of Serbia, that we do not have conflicts of war veterans and gendarmes and police as we did in early 2008 and late 2007. I really don't think it's appropriate that in a country like Serbia, war veterans strike hunger and put their lives at risk. In order not to take too much time, I would like anyone from those political groups who voted against this amendment to come out and state only one justifiable reason why the state of Serbia cannot have the Ministry of Labour, Veteran and Social Affairs. I'm saying there's no valid reason. Only if you consider irrational hatred for the heroes of this country a valid reason. That's why I urge you to support the amendment to this member of the law in voting day. Also, to take advantage of time, so I don't report on the second amendment, to say how much this committee didn't take care of. In my second amendment to Article 19, I made a purely technical amendment, that the current terminology used in the Ministry Act, under point 17, be compared with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the words 'fighters' and 'fighters' no longer exist, but only'veteran' and the entire amendment to Article 19 made sense to emulate the technical part of the law. The Committee did not accept that amendment either. Just as much as the Committee essentially entered the amendments. He saw if there was any pressure to accept the amendment or not. That was the only reason to accept the amendment. Please, in order to have a law that is characterized by the Constitution, accept the amendment to Article 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u732	Thank you. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 2nd amendment. The representatives of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Lapcevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u733	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. The draft law on ministries, in a work that speaks of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, which has not yet existed and which is now the new ministry. The new ministry, if we adopt the law, will be created as a hybrid in which the environment is combined with spatial planning, that is, the construction work in Serbia. We believe that this, in this way created, hybrid, artificial ministry will not be functional and that its creation will cause much greater damage to the functioning of the government and the ministry, as well as other ministries, the Ministry of Infrastructure, but will benefit it. This is why I believe that this amendment should be accepted and that this will make it much more functional. For the simple reason that the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning was created by attaching to the current Ministry of Environmental Protection the part of the Ministry of Infrastructure dealing with spatial planning, building facilities, inspection supervision of the building of buildings, etc., which will say that the new ministry will deal with two different categories. In doing so, the Ministry of Infrastructure will lose that part of the competence that deals with spatial planning and building of buildings, and we also know that the biggest problems in Serbia, and also the resources at the same time, represent infrastructure resources, building infrastructure facilities, and on the other hand, environmental protection. It is clear to all of us in Serbia that one of the biggest natural resources may be that we are in this part of the Balkans and Europe, which passes through the country by many significant corridors, and that the business of building infrastructure facilities, first of all Corridor 10, ends the highway to Dimitrovgrad, or the Bulgarian border, on the one hand, and to Greece, on the other hand, is really one big resource that the state of Serbia needs to finish as soon as possible so it can collect very large revenues based on transit through our country. It is a shame for this country to build Corridor 10 for 30 years and for those 30 years it has barely built some 50km of highways, and if we add the fact that it passes through Serbia annually, only during the summer, more than 500,000 cars, mostly towards Turkey and Greece, and by doing so, it is clear that the most urgent job in this country is to complete highways, because, on the one hand, Serbia will collect a lot more money and, on the other hand, it will be much more attractive and it will give a much nicer picture of Serbia to those who pass through it, which, first of all, applies to foreigners. On the other hand, the environment in Serbia was so threatened that it was a good move by the previous government that it established a new environment ministry. As soon as it comes out of this assembly, passing across Serbia, you can see how threatened this environment is, how many wild dumps we have in every place, how many rivers we have polluted, how many dumps we have at every step. You know that in 2001, a National Waste Management Strategy was adopted, which requires state authorities and all local self-government to close all local dumps by 2008, and by the end of this year, regional sanitary dumps were built. We also know that this job has not far gone, that almost no regional dump in Serbia today has been completed and that in this area we are absolutely far from the standards set by the EU, which, of course, we are all seeking. If it is taken into account that there will be many laws on the agenda of this House's call regarding the harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation precisely from the field of environmental protection, this is another reason that speaks in favour of the fact that the ministry, this new one that is being made, hybridly, artificially, will not be functional because there is a particular ministry of environmental protection that will address these issues, especially in that area regarding harmonisation of legislation. As we have heard from the media, one of the priorities of the future government, which will emerge from this assembly's majority, will be the harmonisation and faster progress of Serbia towards the EU, and the question is how will the ministry be able to commit itself to harmonising the legislation in this area and Serbia's faster progress towards the EU if it has a very important portfolio in its composition -- spatial planning and construction. Let's see who's gonna be the minister who's gonna cover this resort. If someone in the area of urbanism and construction, of course, by the nature of things, will drag the ministry's affairs into their area, solve problems in the areas of spatial planning and urbanism, buildings, legalisation of buildings, inspection supervision and similar things, and environmental protection jobs will, of course, remain in the shadows. If, in turn, he is a minister who is more committed to protecting the environment, then the planning and construction portfolio will remain in the shadows, so he will not deal with the problem. So the artificial combination of these two areas will result in this ministry absolutely not giving good results. If it is taken into account that the infrastructure portfolio, which I have cited as one of the most important reactors for the construction of infrastructure facilities in Serbia, will be the exception to the part that deals with spatial planning, which is vital for the construction of Corridor 10, first of all, but also other traffic in Serbia and other infrastructure facilities, that only means that the reasons for creating such a ministry, such artificial merger, lies only in politics. For this there are only political reasons, because coalition partners do not trust each other and want a portfolio that is likely to belong to DS to attach a planning and construction portfolio so that they can control the infrastructure portfolio that is likely to belong to Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, so that he can be controlled by his colleague from that ministry, because without these spatial plans and other urban procedures, he will not be able to build infrastructure facilities. This means that both the ministry will be ineffective, which, of course, implies that the entire government will not be effective. The reasons are political, of course. This was clear the other day at a meeting of the Socialist International. Mr. Tadic embraces the president of the SPS, Ivica Dacic and Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Dacic, and he clearly sees how uncomfortable it is for him to have this video in the first place, so the man is simply getting his hands on it, and he doesn't want to get that hug, but what he's going to do is, it's like the embrace of a mantis who's likely to swallow the SPS. But that's their problem. The problem of the MPs, especially those of the opposition, is to point out all the bad provisions of this law, to try to improve the provisions of the amendments, to tell you in advance that you are not building an artificial ministry so that you can politically control each other, but to make a rational government that will be primarily cheap, efficient, and thus achieve that goal that you are talking about, which is the socially responsible government. Such a government, which is provided for by this ministry law, will not be socially responsible. She will only be a consumer and, of course, what is her most appropriate name – the commercial government. Please respect these reasons and accept this amendment because it is very important matters for the state of Serbia. Without the adoption of such an amendment, i.e. by passing laws in the original form, which envisions the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, it will be highly inefficient ministries and environments and infrastructure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u734	According to the amendment, Momir Markovic answered the word, then Mr Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u735	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, two kinds of environmental problems Serbia is facing. Some are external factors, because Serbia is surrounded by countries that have technology that is always and ready and suitable for excises. I remind you of an atomic power plant that had to be stopped two years ago because it drained radioactive water. There was a danger of this spreading and experiencing what we experienced 15-20 years ago when an atomic power plant in Ukraine exploded. On the other hand, a month ago, the work of the Krško power plant was stopped because of the same problems. A third example, to remind you that in the 1990s, for example, Tisa became a dead river in 24 hours. Everything that was alive in it died because Romanians, without respect for the basic conditions, had released some chemicals into the river. At that time, the Minister of Ecology was from the ranks of the SRS, and I know that the entire ministry had been on the shores of Tisa for days, and I know that after that the river was treated, so to speak, fished and brought into it by other organisms so that Tisa would return. She recently again experienced the same fate. All these poisons from Europe, thanks to the rivers passing through, due to wind direction, flow into the territory and into the air of the Republic of Serbia. Another kind of problem is our negligent industry. To remind you that many factories do not have the elemental filters for protection and water and air, that the fingers of one hand can count the days of the year when the air above Pančev is clean, that it is in Panchev, and many cities are similar to Pančev, an incredible increase in cancerous diseases, mostly respiratory tracts and lungs. On the other hand, there is also a view of the neglect of citizens who are endangering the environment. Almost every corner has wild dumps to throw everything and everything. Therefore, the environment ministry is one of the most important ministries in the government of the Republic of Serbia. However, it is not attractive from the financial aspect, because everything from that aspect is attractive, according to Mrs Tabakovic, my distinguished colleague, Mladjan Dinkic, on the three sides of this proposal. Wherever it smells like money, it must be in the ministry of Mladjan Dinkic. That's why I suggest you transfer this part to him that relates to spatial planning. Believe that Mladjan Dinkic will be able to drain fat money out of that dry drain. Not for the state, not for the citizens of Serbia, for themselves, but it's a different story. I believe that the amendment of the People's MP of my distinguished colleague is meaningful and that it is necessary to separate the Ministry of Environmental Protection, or the Ministry of Ecology, call it whatever you want, from the Ministry of Spatial Planning, because as you suggested, this doesn't smell, it doesn't smell, it doesn't smell, it doesn't smell like fish or girl, you've packed two absolutely incompatible things into one ministry. Unless, of course, it's a coalition wish from someone you saw as the minister of this ministry. Well, then it's a different story, but then you had to tape up a picture of this man to us, to at least see who he is, or to write a name and a last name -- the future minister of that one and that one -- so let's see, maybe he has some tendency to merge incompatibly, to do two absolutely different jobs at the same time, and then the MPs would be much more informed. I believe that the amendment of the MP is something that will be so raving, ugly and no law for a piece improves and that at least in this segment of social life it will introduce some order. That's why I propose to vote on this amendment in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u736	The word is Mr. Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u737	Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, we cannot write to you the laws. It's your responsibility. You want to make a law on the ministries, you want to imitate it with your interest, your coalition agreements. You should do it. That we have an obligation to write you laws, to write you this provision, as well as a provision of art. 11, 20. And so, we should spend three or four days, to put considerable effort and strength into it, because what you wanted to do by the name of this ministry, it has nothing to do with what you wrote. One of you read somewhere that in parallel practice there is a connection between the environment ministry and spatial planning, which is true, because spatial planning is possible to link to environmental protection. Except for the name, everything else with this intensity has nothing to do with it. What did you do? From the provisions concerning the Ministry of Infrastructure, you literally deleted a whole paragraph and as such transferred it to the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Then you did something else. You deleted certain provisions from the Ministry of Environment again, so you moved them to the Ministry of Agriculture. Completely uncritical, not changing anything significant in text content, not trying to essentially link spatial planning to environmental protection. It connects in a different way. It's impossible to simply cut, like scissors, words that stand in the description of the affairs of one ministry, stick them to the jobs of another ministry and say - so we connected spatial planning and the environment. That's amazing. If you really wanted to connect spatial planning with the environment, which is possible (in some countries it is a practice), then you have to define spatial planning through the section of the ministry in law and provisions to link spatial planning with environmental protection so that a relationship can be established correctly. From the way you've done it, it's true that a direct link to environmental protection has been issued. Believe me, there isn't. No construction inspection, no urban inspection. There may be, but not the way you wrote it. So, in fact, the explanation comes down politically to the simplest thing. You wanted to do a little bit of political trade again, you thought -- well, great, we've combined spatial planning and environmental protection, which isn't unusual in positive legal practice, so we're going to blur our eyes, great, it's gone down like a ace to twelve, and then the opposition won't be able to object. Well, that's not true. There's one problem. We at the DSS and the NS read the text of the bill you give us, not just headlines. If only we had stayed on the title, we would have said, "Well, that's the usual thing, why not?" The problem is that we also read the text and look at what you wrote. What you wrote has nothing to do with what you allegedly wanted. That's the whole problem. So, it seems to me that it was much more important to throw something out of the Ministry of Infrastructure, move it to another ministry, depending on which political parties will control which ministry, but indeed essentially link spatial planning with environmental protection. That's what you wanted to do. We can't write it to you, nor do we think of it, but we can suggest something else – at least return to what it said in the current text of the ministry law. It's less complicated, it's less freakish from a normative and essential aspect, it's easier and better for all of us. And we suggest that you operate on that political trade of yours in some other way. And, I repeat, you don't have to do this through proposing and adopting punitive legal standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u738	The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u739	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of my fellow Members, I'm already feeling a little uncomfortable. I've been going out for the second time today, but I just think it's very important that this topic is opened by the end and that we try to convince fellow MPs who have submitted the draft law on the ministries that it's terribly important that we break now in the right way. I'm very pleased to repeat that I'm proud if we've changed that part, or if you've withdrawn the amendment that you've submitted regarding the abolition of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, and that's why I want to talk about this again today, because I think it's very important that you understand that spatial planning is the part that belongs naturally to another ministry, and that environmental protection is very important to this country and that it should be left in that concept in which it has functioned in recent years. Because things are very important in front of us (the tenth time I'm talking - very important, because they really are), I think you should support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u740	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u741	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, when you have so rudely thrown out the Ministry of Human Rights and Minority Rights and attached it to the Ministry of Justice, I think I would like to suggest that, say, you join two ministries into one and call it the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Human and Minority Rights. That would be really nice. Or, for example, the Ministry of Faith and the Protection of the Environment, because a man who confesses faith should be in a healthy environment, to provide it with him. If someone told me that you were going to put together urbanism and construction with environmental protection, natural resources with environmental protection... You can add environmental protection to any ministry when you have not already singled out as a special ministry – and you should – but put urbanism and construction into spatial planning, that is impossible. Spacious planning can be done in urban and construction. Urbanism and construction is a very broad concept, which includes spatial planning. Urbanism and construction include every kind of project, every kind of performance. The spatial planning, by definition, does not contain the immediate execution of construction works, does not contain supervision of construction works, and particularly does not contain the use of natural resources, which is wisely inserted here into the description of the ministry that will be assigned to one of the ministers. For the science of coalition partners: when you count the ministries, see how high they are; when they are named quality, read what they were left to do. Because it's obvious here that this is going to be an extremely strong ministry. All of faith to the one who grabbed this ministry. He's grabbed a lot of things. When the prime minister proposes, we'll see who's actually going to take care of mining and geological research, underground waters, resources and one of the stupid things that's written here. He says this ministry will be tasked with ensuring an early announcement of the incidents. You know, if it could be announced, then you wouldn't be an accent. What's an accent? It's a disaster. Who's the one who's gonna answer for not announcing an early disaster? I understand that it is early to announce that there has been an incident, but that it is announcing an incident, that there is a ministry in Serbia that will announce the incidents, that expert and that equipment I would like to see. I'd really like to see who's going to take the responsibility to always announce an accent early. And that's only because someone's been given the task of putting as many sentences as possible to hide the main essence of your negotiations, and your negotiations are a sign of mistrust between you. You clothe, assemble, bind, and God knows how much it'll cost us all. The Ministry can't have the name of the Ministry of Environment because it doesn't mean anything. It could be the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Or, you say here -- sustainable resource use. Resources are used while there are. There's no such thing as sustainable. What do you think you're gonna say to a mine -- you're gonna use only 60% of the site, and then a mine, or a farmer in a field -- can't give you six thousand kilos of corn, but four, that's sustainable. What is a sustainable use of resources for you? There's a resource that, as oil, in 20 years' time, will be completely exploited. Will someone hold on to leaving Earth's oil reserve ball? He won't. Will someone less use their resources than they have? Find me in Serbia a resource that is not fully used, as much as we are willing to use it. Especially since you gave all this to the Canadians and the others. Are they concerned about the sustainable use of resources? Environmental Protection Agency – it is, in fact, the Ministry of Environmental Protection. But you didn't respect that environment. Since in the first part of the name of the ministry is just an environment, then why in the first part of the reasoning do we not have enough about the environment? No, you hit construction immediately, so-called. spatial planning. And you roughly translate words from the West, because the concept of spatial planning is one part of many sciences, and construction and urbanism is one part, and spatial planning is not just about construction and urbanism, as you intend to do here. You know that very well. After all, it is studied in geography, not in construction and urbanism. So I'd have a man with you here to talk about all these ministries. We've never done this before, but we've never had this kind of bill. We believe that when you take over that power, write down the laws. I repeat, it would be good to have them universal. Governments change, but laws remain concerning governments and ministries. It would be good if even the Constitution had foreseen them. You do what you want, I'm just saying that it's better to think about what you're really imagining now than to bang on your forehead and say what we actually imagined. You weren't involved in this. This is sarcasm - the MPs have submitted the bill to us. You have no idea what they've been up to, what they've predicted. That's not what the party presidents agreed on, it's those experts, brains, who will sit in cabinets and rob Serbia, and you will take political risks in direct transfers from the National Assembly session. And again, from the ruling majority, we will have silencers at the National Assembly sessions. But please read these laws. Don't, like all the ruling majority so far, come to the session and leave just to make a quorum and vote. Read these laws to you, they don't bring us too good. There's enough wisdom in you. You could've influenced it. If you can't influence who will be in your coalition, you could influence how the government will function. The government that plans for itself to act if there is a revote, the government that shares naturally engaged ministries towards the strength of coalition partners, according to the desire not to cheat on someone, is not a government on the long term. Even if we are in opposition every time, Serbia needs a government on a long-term basis. The long term is a four-year term. I would like Serbia to be guided so well that those who lead it will be sure to lead it for four years. And when this goes down like this, from a bad position, it sure as hell can't. Now we're guessing, in the media, whether it's going to last a year, two, three or four, but it certainly can't last four. It's a bad idea, on bad rules, and you'll see how bad it's going to come out amongst the people who get together there. Because this fraud, which was committed after these elections, cannot be without consequences. And this fraud will make Serbian citizens think very well about the next election. There's a lot of young people here. Believe me, as a man of adulthood, I know your election will be quick. And even if it's over four years, don't make it seem like a long period -- we have time. You don't have time, the days pass so quickly that by the time you turn around twice, you'll realize that half of your term has passed. And when you pass half your term, then you get an early election almost regular.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u742	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u743	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to invite you all to support our colleague Lapčević's amendment, because we have heard it from the predecessors, this member of the law, as it is written, literally showing how it was actually negotiated, what was done and how this parliamentary majority was prepared, which was made and which should choose a new government. There's a relationship between partners. It was known, that it was written two months ago, that Milutin Mrkonjic, like when the SPS, wanted the resolution ministry. The Democratic Party, however, watched how it would prevent the strong influence of using such a resource by Mrkonjic and the SPS, tried and politically to profit from all of this, and then do impossible things (possibly, but in an impossible way, as Mr Aligrudic explained), and connects incompatibly without any preparation and not with the intention of the state being better, but with the intention of preventing each other from profiting politically from something that should, in fact, work for the state. Thus, the interest of the state and citizens in both areas, or even the three or four areas we are talking about, will be in the second plan, and the interest of the SPS and DS will be a priority in relation to the interests of the state and citizens. This is seen in several examples in this law, not only this article, but, here, we came to this member and he really shows it very clearly and says it. So, we have an DS that wants one of its frames, which he thinks is quality, that it's media-infilted, that it can do something, the SPS wants to profile it in that way, the DS wants to stop them, to control them, and then they're making these kinds of, I don't know, silent arrangements for personal interest, and at the expense of the state and the citizens and what they're actually going to be able to do. But there are third parties in all of this, and these are the ones who, in fact, essentially form this government, which allowed it to be agreed, which allowed this congregation majority to be made and three men to be hugged in Athens in front of the cameras yesterday. (Momir Markovic, from the scene: Terrible! I don't know if it was scary, I've seen them hug, it's your comment. On the other hand, there is a great interest in all of this, of course, I repeat, and whoever brought them together, which is Washington, the United States, or the capital that entered this country in the previous period, and is now looking at how to make as much profit as possible, not to use those standards that must be used, for example, in its home country, to exploit the resources of the Serbian state and to poison the citizens of Serbia, without being held accountable or not paid properly, as it is done in the United States. The real example of this is the biggest exporter in the state of Serbia, the company that's in the city where I come from, "Ju-Es style," former "Sartid," which we all know. There's a lot of talk about how it's privatized. Only that land next to the Danube, near the Kovin Bridge, where there should be a single cargo port, where there is even a European Union project for it, is worth a lot more than $23,000 for which the entire factory is sold, and it's not just a factory, but there are more factories, I don't know how many people know that, because there are "White Lims"- Shabac etc. Anyway, "Ju-Es style" is one of the biggest contaminants. In our public, Panchevo is constantly potential, but Smederevo is in the first ten cities in Serbia for pollution and Ju-Es style in the first five polluters in the state of Serbia. As a result, only a few years ago Smederevo was the city that first received these measurement stations and air pollution units, the first city in Serbia to get it during which the portfolio was headed by Minister Aleksandar Popovic, but nothing was done after that. The previous two governments and the previous local government in Smederev pressured the "Ju-Es style" to make all standards of environmental protection, not to poison the citizens of three large villages in its environment, which are Vranovo, Ralja and Radinac. It is indeed big villages, together these villages are bigger than some municipalities in Serbia. You have a situation where kids go to school with already ill lungs, that's what all the Smederians know, and Ju-Es style doesn't do anything to fix that situation or does very little. We forced them to sign a contract, make a commitment by the end of 2009 to invest almost $50 million in their facilities and repair environmental protection, to keep their facilities in Smederev the same way as they do in Pittsburgh, and to pay taxes, fines and everything else that is related to their business and environmental protection. Unfortunately, I am convinced that none of this will be because the new government in Serbia, which is being drawn up by Washington, will in any case not be able to treat the company's owners in such a way, and unfortunately, Smederevci will continue to be poisoned. I don't want it, I hope the Ju-Es style will be correct and will do something, but as we see all their behavior, their interest is only a great profit, not an adequate investment in all that is needed for citizens to be protected. We'll follow it, we'll take care of it, and we'll warn you about it here every day. If the situation doesn't improve, and with a ministry like this certainly won't, I repeat again because it's Washington, which is the government in Serbia, I'm afraid our children and citizens around the Ju-Es style will still be poisoned.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u744	The word is Miss Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u745	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an amazing date, and no matter how hard you try to appear as some Europeans and offer yourself to these mentors of yours from the West that you will want to join the EU, they will be surprised and baptized that you could bring something like this together. Imagine, you combine the area of construction and environmental protection. In Belgrade, in Kragujevac, in Cačka, in Novi Sad, in Nis, Vrnjačka Banja, the construction mafia does not respect any protection from the environment, but rather they behave so arrogantly to destroy everything in front of them. And now you're supposed to combine two detours of work within one ministry, where, of course, there's going to be a conflict of interest. One will deal with projects in the area of construction, so needed by our country to employ our large companies, businesses such as Belgrade's Rada, which is in bankruptcy, which was once one of the most famous companies not only here but everywhere in the world, and on the other hand, to say that the Environmental Protection Administration will look after all these segments so necessary for sustainable development, for normal life in Serbia. It's something that I suppose is the tendency of all countries in the world to have a normal and healthy environment, and you combine them with those who, to reach their goal, are profit, so the one-off profit that doubles from year to year, triples that they work together within one ministry. Here, there's a colleague, Chikiriz, who's from the SPO, but lives for many years in Kragujevac and works there, he's been selected from the list as a resident of the town of Kragujevac, so he can confirm to you that all those who have done any work in the area of construction, including local self-government in the area of municipal infrastructure, here tells us that it should be connected to one another, not that they haven't run protection about it, but today we have a center of the town of Kragujevac and Karajordjeva street, where I grew up, means I'm the city center, the heart of the city, where you don't have any normal tree. Everything's been cut, leveled with the ground. Even he has repeatedly reacted to a press release -- why it is done and why those values, which are, in the right sense, the values of one city, one environment, one environment, are only destroyed so that someone from the construction lobby can carry out their purpose. You can only see the situation in Belgrade in that sense. Get out of these mountain and banana centers. Is that where the gauges and the building permits are respected? They don't respect each other. Everyone comes out of these frames, only if they have a relationship and if the loved ones are, above all, DS and G17 plus companies, they do what they want, and they don't care about respecting the environment, our water and everything they're up against today, it's really a big evil that's been done and it's a wake-up call to sell, and we know that Vlahovic and his team took part in this whole machinery, now I'm a stadium in Smederev worth more than the total selling value of our biggest hardware store. If you look at what institutions in the world are doing today, I happen to be, and before this bill and agenda came to me here on the desk, it brought something that is the draft of a resolution of the Council of Europe, which is about protecting the environment. If you had told one of these fellow signatories from different countries from that representative body where we members said that you had merged the building and the ecologicals, they would be surprised. (President: Time. I'm done. Look at the work title. It says, "The Forests – the future of our planet." And those who build and look to gain an enormous wealth, they've scattered all the forests in Serbia, they don't care, they don't answer to anyone. Seventeen million hectares of forest, as they said, which are indeed necessary in the future for the sustainable development of the planet in the global warming process, are now being destroyed as much in Serbia. We're gonna be in a lot of trouble, and you're gonna jump into your own mouth. It took this Dragin, who appeared here last year, who apparently didn't suggest that something like this would happen in the compensation and in the trade, to say that you were going to spray on the ashes, so you shouldn't have adopted Kyoto protocol. Now, in this post-Kyotov period and at a conference held in Bali that will be held on another side of the planet, send someone from the Agency, since you don't have a Ministry of Environmental Protection, so tell me what you've done. Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u746	The word is Mr. Marash, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u747	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this amendment submitted by counterpart Milan Lapcevic fits in with the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the LDP Parliament Club. I really think it's justified to accept it, for the simple reason that my predecessors said it was incompatible here. It would be much better if instead of spatial planning this were the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Forestry and Water Management. I think it would make a lot more sense if you put something like that together, but it's obvious that the political reason why the ministry was invented like this is. A moment ago, during this story, my predecessors mentioned, specifically Mr. Shormaz, a great concern for environmental pollution, especially in Smederev, a city from which he comes. He also mentioned Pancevo, located near Belgrade and located in Vojvodina. But he forgot to say one thing. Mr. Shormaz, I don't understand how you can take care so much of the environmental pollution in Smedereva by one side of the factory, and don't worry that, after an oil-gas deal with Russia, the oil processing that's going on in our country when we buy that oil, which I repeat, with the highest percentage of sulfur, is also going to occur. It is not clear to me how you can advocate such an agreement, not you personally, but your party, and at the same time you do not have such a relationship with citizens who will suffer great damage from such pollution. Also, Miss Natasa Jovanovic mentioned earlier what the construction mafia is doing, what is happening in Kragujevac, etc. Ms. Jovanovic, I'm sure you know who ruled Novi Sad for four years and you've heard for sure that on the day of the death of the late Prime Minister Djindjic, the then director of the City Building Institute was making a concert in Novi Sad, in the Liman Park, which is the largest park in Novi Sad, full of greenery. What happened there, how was the opening? There was an opening for that reason that they completely blew off that park. They didn't build the highway through the park, they built Corridor 10. Don't tell me what the construction mob's doing, we've got cases like this all over the place. I'm telling you of a terrible example that was in New Sad, that through one green surface, the largest green area in Novi Sad, made a literal corridor. Behaton's been put on a ton. I don't want to get into whether it looks better, but it certainly doesn't look better for the citizens of Novi Sad.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u748	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dimitrijevic and Mr. Shormaz, then we'll take a break. I'll ask the heads of parliament to hold a brief consultation at the beginning of the break, a further-work agreement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u749	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, 225 and 226. For several days we have witnessed information that publishes both the printed and the electronic media. This country is facing a shortage of di-te-per vaccine. It's only now, yesterday-day, that those reserves are filling in. I will remind you, the responsibility of the Ministry of Health concerns the production and transport of medicines, medical resources and auxiliary medical supplies and inspections in these areas. Why doesn't the Ministry of Health solve this problem? Does the Ministry of Health have any intention of saying anything about this problem? Another thing, in several cities both in Vojvodina and in Shumadi, there is a drinking water malfunction. The responsibility of the Ministry of Health also relates to the public supply of the population with hygienic proper drinking water. So again, the health ministry is not responding, and several cities in Serbia have a serious problem at the beginning of this warm period. The information was in our media that there was no serum against snakebite in this country. So does the Ministry of Health have any intention of taking care of population health? Will the department of health departments report for these problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u750	Thank you. The word is Mr. Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u751	I'll be brief, so we can take a break, since my LDP colleague called me this way. I am really thinking the same way about these privatisations and factories I mentioned in Smedereva and about the gas arrangement and the sale of NIS. That's why I think we should do it as soon as possible, because in our facilities today, the same oil you mentioned is being processed. We're from there importing oil, not that oil from Saudi Arabia, for example, and we're processing this technology that we have. That's why we have an increase in environmental pollution in those parts, and above all in Panchev. But when the NIS is privatised, that's why we're saying the opposite of what Mladjan Dinkic says is an important price. No, it doesn't matter the price. It's much more important to make the one who wants to buy, and in this case, Russian investors, invest in new technology and bond with the contract, than it matters, that we take the budget and share pensions ten percent more this year and spend it, and stay on the old technology. It is much more important to make a real contract, an investment contract with Russian investors who are willing and who have offered it, that we have new technology and, of course, thus reducing environmental pollution. That's why we need to support this gas deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u752	Thank you. It's a break by 3:00. I'm asking the bosses... Excuse me, do you want a replica? I've already set a break, I'm sorry. We'll start with you, of course. At 3 p.m., we'll continue our work. [[After break – 15.10]] We'll continue our work after the break. It was a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u754	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I signed up for a replica of the presentation of Slobodan Maraš on some of the amendments, so Novi Sad also came to an end. I don't know what's going on in Panchev and Smeder, it's probably what the press says, that the industry is polluting the environment, but let's do it for the people who are in power there. As far as I know, Panchev's been in power for the last eight years, so let him solve those problems. But the Lymanic Park in Novi Sad until before 2004, was the mockery of the New Sad, the acquisition of drug addicts, drunkards and everyone else, so to speak, antihuman people. Now the Lyman Park mirror of Lyman, the mirror of Novi Sad. Probably, when it's this Exit, it's gonna be New Now's mockery again because it's gonna be a white-world drug buster again. I don't know what kind of observations are of some of these positional parties, that something that's good and beautiful is made ugly. The Liman Park in Novi Sad was detained for purposes and it is now a mirror of Lyman and Novi Sad where citizens come, and older and young, have benches, light, and there was no lighting at all, it was, I say, any mockery of the New Sad. If Mr. Maras thinks that everything the radicals have done in four years' time, three construction seasons, then I think that, too, Mrs. Gordana Komic can say, that the Liman Park is a beautiful park that has never been like that before. Many approaches to the New Sad have been made so that a man admires them. I'm going to say again that Mrs. Gordana Comic probably noticed it, but she won't say it. Now we're going to see what this position in Novi Sad is going to do in these four years. As it turns out, I can see that it won't be any of them, how intense they are and how much they want to do without doing anything. Today, the newspaper says that Novi Sad has reopened the city, and as far as I know, I was in that government until two months ago, in the last four years, Mayor Maja Gojkovic, if nothing else, received at least one dozen, fifteen ambassadors in Novi Sad, and my little one received one dozen, fifteen delegations from Europe, so that no Novi Sad was opened when the Democrats in Novi Sad came back to power, but it was from the beginning because it was the Serbian Athens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u755	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u756	On behalf of the SRS MPs, the Honorable Presidency, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2(1) of point 19. A bill on ministries with a proposal to change the name of the Ministry of Culture by adding the words "and informing". This proposal for a ministry law practically abolished the ministry of information that so far existed united, along with the culture ministry. I believe that this proposal is an obvious example of a boastful and underestimating relationship that the proposer, in this case the ruling coalition in the announcement, means the future government, has according to public information, according to the media and journalists. Unfortunately, great credit for such a relationship, great guilt, bear the media themselves, their owners and journalists. In an effort to court authorities, because power and money are around the government, they turned most of the media in Serbia into propaganda services of ruling parties, mostly the Democratic Party. Instead of objectively informing the public in Serbia about the country's poor condition, the major failures in power, that critical relations with them, most media in Serbia are improving reality, the people of Serbia are selling fog on European integration and spreading fear of a possible government formed by the SRS. The media in Serbia are full of foreign investments that are not there, a better life that is not there, European integration that is not there, the defence of Kosovo and the non-Methohija. Simply, Serbian citizens are being deceived about the real situation in the country. What makes the situation even harder is the circumstance that many of these media are doing illegal work. At this moment, you have several daily papers on kiosks in Serbia that exist beyond legal and legal regulations, which are not even known by the right owner. Also, there is probably no municipality in Serbia that has at least one radio or television station that works illegally without proper permits. I'll only give an example of Smederjevska Palanka and TV Dević. This TV broadcasts the program uninterruptedly. She not only doesn't have permission to work, she doesn't apply at all to the Broadcasting Agency to get frequencies. However, they do not mind doing so and, which is very symptomatic, they are not in their programme dealing with the problems of the citizens of Smederjevska Palanka, which would be logical, but rather dealing with the problems of the citizens of the Great Plane. For what? For reasons (I see some colleagues on the left looking at me astoundingly, it is surprising) that the Municipality of the Great Plan of its budget is funding that television to promote a political party. It doesn't matter which, mainly from the order of these democratic parties, they call themselves democratic. We have, so, one situation that's not normal. One municipality in the municipal budget, meaning state money, is funded by a single television that is completely illegal. Practically since 5 October 2005 and from the burning of the national television building, we have a continuous collapse of the public information system. The public information system is getting weaker and the public disinformation system is getting stronger. Obviously, it took so much wave that DS-Boris Tadic, G17 and Mladjan Dinkic estimated that they no longer needed information. In the future, we will probably be able to learn from public statements that they will broadcast through various'sands', 'insiders', 'polygraphs' and similar shows. As absurd as the situation in which we find ourselves is, it shows the following example. We have one law today, in which a journalist participated. A journalist who is probably the most gifted journalist in his generation, future Serbian Deputy Prime Minister. The journalist suggests that the Ministry of Information be abolished, and he is soon to assume that if this coalition is formed, the police ministry will take over. You have to admit, it's absurd. In order not to get into a situation, at some point recently or in a year or two, to discuss here a proposal to abolish the law, to abolish the Ministry of Culture or perhaps to set up another ministry, let's say the big brother's ministry, I suggest that the MPs of the National Assembly do this little effort and accept this amendment of mine. This will essentially change nothing, but I think it will symbolically represent one incentive to improve the state of public information in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u757	Thank you. In accordance with Article 85(6), allow me to inform you that after 1800 hours we will continue to work on this point. I give my word to Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u758	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when you look at the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly and look at the committees that the Assembly has as its bodies, you will find under number 21. The Committee on Culture and Information. I am already four times an MP in this house and all four times has been the Committee on Culture and Information, the ministry has been called the Ministry of Culture and Information, and today we have this proposal for a law on ministries where the Ministry of Culture is first formed - without information. But when you look at the contents of this text, what the ministry should be doing, you can see that this information section has been incorporated. He says, "The Ministry of Culture is doing jobs... public information system; monitoring of law enforcement in the field of public information; monitoring of the work of public enterprises and institutions in the field of public information; monitoring of the work of foreign information institutions, foreign means of public information, correspondence and correspondents in the Republic of Serbia... '". Now we stop here, so let's remember that many written means of public information, many written media, are already in the hands of foreigners. We don't have to ask what foreign correspondents will do. What are our journalists doing working in the means of information that is in the hands of strangers? Not to mention the famous newspaper "Today," "Blic" and so on. Because, behold, a journalist, a columnist of the "Today" newspaper, is already taking notes, and tomorrow the text will be published in the paper on the course of today's session of the Assembly. What's more important than that, he says, informing national minorities. In the area of informing national minorities, as much as you care, Mr. Democrats (democracy is one thing, democracy is the rule of so-called democracy. Democrats), the only television house in the field of informing a national minority, which had no letter in its policy programme, which exclusively dealt with Roma culture, Roma music, Roma education, education, was called "Amaro Drom" TV, which means "our way". The TV began to work well, it received a solution to fit into the scheme, until the moment they realized that the owner and driver of the television was a respected MP and minister in the Serbian government from 1998 to 2000, Mr. Jovan Damjanovic. That moment came a solution to ban the work of that television. I repeat, no political letter has revealed the television house. Ladies and gentlemen, you from the national minority parties, members of the national minorities, be assured, as they thought of the TV house "Amaro Drom", they also think of all the means of information that are in your languages and which are in your culture and information. In this light coalition there are only the interests of DS and a few of those that will support the government like those of the strikers when they are placed in the building. I propose that the amendment of the MP of the SRS be adopted. If it writes what the ministry will do, there is no reason not to be in the name of the ministry and informing, not just culture. By the way, let me remind you of your culture. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I was a member of the Committee on Culture and Information in the previous term and I discovered an incredible robbery, an incredible affair. I remind the MPs who were here, it's about the theft, literally about the corruption of the former Museum of History of Yugoslavia. I remind you that Nefertiti, the sculpture that Joseph Broz Tito received from Naser, only survived because they found that she was gold. Nefertiti is a sculpture that is in the so-called Zero value, can't be estimated value. Today, the former Museum of History of Yugoslavia, i.e. now the Museum of History of Serbia, is being renovated, as the Museum of Contemporary Art is being renovated, and ask me where the exhibits are located. There's only one painting that can buy a fairy on Santa. The value of these pictures is amazing. Those pictures are in safes. Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic will guess who holds the keys to these safes - Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u759	The word is Mr. Jovan Damjanović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, democracy is when the majority people respect the minority people. On this side is the Serbian people and on this side is the Serbian people. You're all my brothers. I'm an Orthodox man. Interestingly, if we are looking for democracy, Serbia has always been a democratic country, I know it best, as vice-president of the World Organisation of Roma, from countries in the environment, Europe, and the world, the biggest democracy towards national minorities is in the Republic of Serbia. But in order for Serbia to be as democratic as it is, we must implement democracy through the minority people, through the multicultural and multi-confessional people that exist in this Serbia. If that's not respected, then there's no democracy. You need to know that the European Community, the Council of Europe and the OSCE have made proposals for many positive things to be revitalised in the minority people, especially in the Roma community. However, this was not carried out. We had, like my colleague said, a Roma television that didn't bother anyone. I spoke with Southeast European representative Mrs. Jelen Guskov and she said Serbia is three steps ahead of Europe. It says - there is no Roma television in Europe, and in Serbia we have three Roma televisions. Two down, one to go. I don't think there are any democratic methods by the ruling coalition. Whoever is in power, we as citizens and as MPs have an obligation to respect our representatives, but we also have acquired rights in this country that belong to us. However, our acquired rights must not be taken away from us by the coalition, or by the exercise of power. That's what you need to know. By all democratic methods, they belong to us in this country, as well as to all other citizens. You see, a colleague said there's a television station in Smederev that doesn't have a frequency or a solution. I know where there are other places, but it's not appropriate for me to mention it now, and they do. And why did the Roma TV shut down? Do you think that the Roma community should be able to be educated and educated by all positive programmes and methods and integrate into this society? If you want the integration of the Roma, you can't take away what's most elementary, which is guaranteed to us both by world and European laws and statutes. We have the right to information, we have the right to education, we have the right to tradition, we have the right to language, we have the right to culture. You took that away from us. Please, dear colleagues on one side and on the other, you see, we have a program here, at the Ministry of Culture we have the right to inform. Where's our information? I've been talking, but it's all about -- we'll see, we'll make a deal -- and there's nothing. I respected the Ministry of Telecommunications, RRA's solution and so on. I turned off the television, but now I wonder if anyone in this country really cares about national minorities and the rights we have. Secondly, I must tell you, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, you must know, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, that the fundamental right of national minorities to have this ministry. This ministry solves many things that satisfy the programmes and formulas of national minorities and affirm our country. We've had an office for human and minority rights so far. We had national advice. Now, look at how they make manipulations. We have the National Council of Roma, as well as other national councils of national minorities that exist in this country, but the National Council of Roma also has an office in the Office for Human and Minority Rights. Today I had certain people's receptions, so they said to me, "Please, Damjanovic, bring it out. What's this office doing? She took over the rights of the Council of National Minorities of Roma, and the office performs major financial manipulations and criminal acts. I won't mention the name now, but if we have national councils, and no national council of other national minorities in the Office of Human and Minority Rights has such an office, why do we have this office? In order to manipulate and obtain certain personal means. Please, you must know that we are a community that in all the storms and storms has been with the Serbian people, the Serbian state and while there is a Roma community in this country, we will always be with our Serbia and our people. But, please, come on, sort out some of the things that are fundamentally our acquired rights. You want to end this, you want to end that. Then what are we, as a national minority, entitled to? Return delegations from the European Parliament by special plane. We have confirmed and legalised the killings of the Serb people and the Roma people in Kosovo, to which internal organs have been removed and sold. Should we legalise what Albanians have done and certain international organisations have implemented? By returning the delegation and not discussing it there, we have confirmed that we accept everything that has happened to both Serbian and Roma and other non-Albanian lives. I pray that this assembly and the state of Serbia – what belongs to us, should finally be given to us because we too have needs. How will we integrate in this society if we are half-written, illiterate, uninformed and uneducated? You can't do that. By special measures, we trained Albanians, by quick program, and the Albanians took our country and killed us. And we Rommie, who are the greatest patriots and we will always be the greatest patriots, have taken everything from us, give us nothing. If there wasn't an SRS, there wouldn't be a Roma, there wouldn't be a minister, there wouldn't be a MP, we wouldn't be able to bring exactly our problems into this country's largest body. Therefore, Serb brothers, give us something to do, make it possible for our rights to follow us in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u761	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u762	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I am asking a question and asking for an answer in terms of the provisions of the article. In 225 and 226 Special Prosecutor for War Crimes – will Naser Oric prosecute crimes? Under Naser Oric's command, 180 villages were burned and destroyed in the vicinity of Srebrenica, Bratunca and other Serb-run areas. This criminal protected by the UN tribunal is now finally freed from this shameful, let's call him The Hague, but a criminal tribunal. That, in my opinion, is a criminal tribunal. He, first of all, does not judge war crimes. He judges Professor Vojislav Seselj for alleged fire-fighting talks in political campaigns following the introduction of a multi-party system in Serbia. Brothers and sisters, dear Serbian citizens, dear fellow MPs, I ask the question and ask again from the special prosecutor for war crimes – did he launch and will he launch a criminal case against Naser Oric, who committed unheard and unremembered crimes, and who today is rewarded, benefactored, free of all these crimes? I ask the director of Serbian Television and ask the question – will he publish a video on the state television of the Republic of Serbia, the Public Service, so that Serbian citizens and the foreign public can find out what crimes Naser Oric committed, when, in which places, he cut off the heads of Serbs, how he burned them, how he put them in freezers, how he burned villages, how he destroyed everything that was Serbian, mainly on Orthodox holidays, and above all on Christmas? Dear colleagues, there is no justice. International law is applied selectively. The indictment against Professor Vojislav Seselj was filed in Belgrade by prosecutors, udbudsmen, from state authorities, from ministries. When you take an indictment that's been changed and amended three or four times, you'll see everything, you'll see what these crimes are about, you'll see who wrote those charges (by their content, according to their qualifications). (President: Time, Mr. Jojic. ) Imagine, she found out Carla del Ponte that Vojislav Seselj was in Surdulica, or Murtenica, Jasenovo, was in Kokin's Brod, or he was in Subotica, as a politician in the pre-election campaign, and at that time he gave speeches. That's why this indictment is embarrassing. The Hague tribunal, after all the evidence it has brought against Vojislav Seselj, remains nothing but to free Dr Vojislav Seselj, because so far from thirty-and-a-half witnesses, no evidence, nor written evidence provided, suggests that Vojislav Seselj committed any crime. He is just the victim of Zoran Djindjic and others from his government who delivered him at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u763	Please, Mr. Jojic, finish your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I therefore request that the Special Prosecutor for War Crimes immediately and without delay following today's decision by the UN tribunal to initiate criminal proceedings, and Interpol and other state authorities and international contracts will bring that criminal to justice. That way Serbia will be a legal state. They will not selectively apply the law, there will be no multi-party system in which political users will be accused, above all...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u765	Mrs. Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u766	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 225. I don't understand why DS MPs react this way to the presentation of counterparts Peter Jojic. Your friend, friend and Boris Tadic and Zoran Djindjic, Carla del Ponte, wrote in her book that mob Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic asked her to take Vojislav Seselj to The Hague and not bring him back from there. I really don't know why you're jumping on such information. Today I was not in the morning work because I followed the trial of Prof. Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal and who knows which time I was extremely proud to be from the SRS Dr. Vojislav Seselj, which I am his close associate and friend, which I am his contemporary, because even today, who knows which way, and will see that Serbian citizens tonight in a delayed transfer, said that he is in The Hague tribunal fighting not for himself, because there is no reason, he has nothing to defend himself, but wants to defend the honour of SRS volunteers and the Serbian people. In the meantime, I was informed that the UN tribunal's appeal was the so-called The Hague tribunal. The Hague court has ruled that Naser Oric, a Muslim military commander in Srebrenica, is free of all charges, with the reason that it is not disputed that a crime has been committed against Serbs in the Srebrenica area, but there is not enough evidence to accuse Naser Oric. It is another one of the UN tribunal scandals, but it is a scandal of the Serbian state. After such a verdict, following such an act by The Hague tribunal, none of Serbia's officials react. I listened to this Soroshev anti-Serbian B92 TV show, says - an international law expert's comment. I expect a lawyer, when what -- Natasa Kandic, a woman who has never even seen law school inside, might have passed by, and she is an expert in international criminal law. Then, he says, Bruno Vekaric, spokesman for war crimes here in Belgrade, Serbia, and this is the answer, my colleague Jojic, after listening to what Mr Vekaric said, says he is appealing to the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to the cantonal prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to at least initiate proceedings against some of the perpetrators commanded by Naser Oric, and what he did not say to Bruno Vekaric is also...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u767	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u768	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u769	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u770	Article 225. Rules of Procedure. So, what is true when it comes to first co-operation with The Hague tribunal, as you experience it from this ruling newly formed coalition, and God knows those before you, and co-operation with the state prosecutors of Serbia and the Ustasha state of Croatia and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is seen right through the case of Naser Oric. Our Special Prosecutor's Office – Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, you haven't returned my time, thank you very much – so our Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes, you know how he co-operates with these state prosecutors of these two republics? By getting a warrant from this Special Prosecutor for War Crimes, Vukcevic is appealing to the cantonal prosecution and to the Bosnia and Herzegovina State Prosecutor's Office, and he gets a warrant from the cantonal prosecutor from Tuzla, the lady's name is Fatima, the last name of this moment cannot be remembered, and he is ordered by that Mrs Fatima to initiate the procedure, to conduct proceedings against some persons whom those in the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office in Tuzla consider responsible for some alleged war crimes on the territory of the municipality of Zvornik, for example. He thus, as a puppy, of course, doubles his tail, quickly-betters the procedure, brings people in, listens to witnesses, collects some documentation, and he cannot ask that lady from the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office in Tuzla, nor the state prosecutor in Sarajevo to initiate proceedings against all those criminals who killed Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I remind you of 10,000 killed Serbs in Sarajevo, about 3,500 killed Serbs in the area of Srebrenica, Bratunca, Kravica. So, we keep trying to amnesty those who killed Serbs in the past wars and keep trying to force ourselves to do something like we have to build on our past. Of course, we Serbian radicals advocate that every crime be discovered, that every criminal is responsible for what he did. Crime can't be abstract, every crime has its own perpetrator, and everyone should be responsible for the crime he committed. Why did I go this way to talk? Why did I say I wasn't here this morning, so I just saw that the Legislative Committee has determined that the amendment I submitted to Article 3. The bill does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Of course, I will talk about this amendment when it comes to the agenda, and it is that through this amendment, I have asked that justice department's jurisdiction be deleted from the obligation of the justice ministry to continue to catch and deliver Serbs to the Hague case.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u771	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u772	They say in the DS Legislative Committee that it is not in line with our constitutional system to call it in The Hague case, and I ask, but there is no colleague Vlatko Ratkovic to explain to me where the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia regulated the existence of the Hague case and any co-operation of Serbia with that so-called. The court. After today's verdict...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u773	You spoke for more than ten minutes. Can I get you a member?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u774	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, Article 225. First, I need to remind you of article 27, which you just broke. You can't turn off the microphone without warning him that he's out of time. I am now speaking again under Rule 225 of Rule 1 and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I quote this view: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the MP." It is of paramount importance to me, Madam President of the National Assembly, that I be able to perform the function of a MP in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and our legal system, precisely to find out what I was talking about and what I was trying to get an answer to. Of course, I totally understand why you turned off my microphone at that very moment, but I will say that, after this scandalous and shameful verdict by the UN Council of The Hague tribunal, which was released by Naser Oric of all charges of crimes and crimes against the Serb people in Srebrenica, the least I expected was for the Legislative Committee to change this decision, and I especially expected at least one part of this future ruling coalition to accept my amendment. I don't think anyone should think about handing over any Serbian to the Hague casamat anymore. If even after today, it is not clear to you that it is a political court in The Hague, an anti-Serb court, then indeed it is for you to be honored and engaged in politics and in this business. I don't think a dictator, who will obviously round up his dictatorial function tomorrow, Boris Broz, can even think about looking for Karadzic, Mladic and Hadzic anywhere. He has done enough shame to the state of Serbia for arresting Stojan Zupljanin in that way. I don't think any of the MPs will be able to vote against my amendment, I mean, above all, MPs who have little morals and little national consciousness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u775	Thank you. Who else wants a word to Article 2? The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u776	According to Article 225, of course, although we can say 226. About all this and me as a MP and the entire DSS-NS parliamentary group need some information to keep working at all. Today, it was announced, by an MP from the newly formed assembly majority, that a government would be formed Thursday. Last Thursday, we haven't even finished these laws. It's Friday, July 4th. It was announced that the new assembly majority would present to the US ambassador here a new government on the largest holiday in the United States on July 4th, their Independence Day. It doesn't seem to have anything to do with that either. I don't think Serbs will have any consequences for that, if you make him angry? And I don't know why you don't respect the one who's your boss and who's forming you. It may also be related to the information I have received, so I am very interested in whether it is true (there is no reason to doubt these sources), and I have received information that Mrs Chanak, Vuk Draskovic and Rasim Ljajic met today. They agreed that they were not satisfied with how they went through this distribution of authorities and that they sent a letter to Boris Tadic about it. Because if they group, they have 13 MPs, and the SPS, for example, He's 11. And now, when we look at the distribution of power and what the SPS got, and what this group is, then it's really no wonder that people are rebelling. Are we going to get in a situation like this once or not to choose this pro-European government? Although, based on what we've heard so far, we need to add some more news. For example, the title of the news that goes through Serbia for this shamefully liberating verdict for Naser Oric is "Naser Oric - free and happy". Take a look at the agency news and you'll see the title "Naser Oric - free and happy". Moreover, today's news is that the US will set aside $400m at a donor conference for Kosovo to assist the Kosovo government, the one that declared Kosovo's independence with its assembly. And Ramush Haradinaj is happy, and that government is happy, and they get from Americans, who form your government, unfortunately for all of us, $400 million. I am really interested in the opinion of all, not only of the SPS, but of all, whether in this whole situation, with such daily news and all of this happening in Serbia every day, that is to say, it started at such a pace that every hour and not every day, whether Serbia really needs a pro-European government with a frozen SAA, without being able to apply, or if Serbia needs a national responsible government to defend this country, defend our citizens and this people, and who will know that it is dealing with all the problems that we have, and that those who force you to form a government every hour but not every day, make new and new problems in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u777	The word is Mr. Buha, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u778	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've reached out to Article 225. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I can tell you that I am not surprised by this shameful decision of the UN tribunal because it is only a continuation of all those activities carried out by the International Community, mondialists and a new world order towards the Serbian people. This is just a continuation of these activities. We'll see worse. What we need to do is to bring this house to a resolution brought by the Russian Duma, asking the International Community and the General Assembly of the Security Council to shut down The Hague tribunal. But we don't have the courage here. It's clear to the Serbian people now. They dragged us into war, killed our youth, robbed our country, destroyed our country, made petty possessions and did whatever they wanted. This home, in the name of unhappy mothers and fathers who have lost children, the unhappy Serbian people, must have that courage. Let's make a decision. Let's help the Russians, but let's help other countries who will surely join our activities to break and shut down The Hague tribunal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u779	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u780	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Zoran Krasic asked that the NIP ministry be deleted in Article 2. To you, who do not read the amendments and do not follow the material you are getting, but vote by inert as the ruling coalition, I must say that the National Investment Plan has actually been created. The NIP is nothing but a 2006 Mladjan Dinkic scam, when budget rebalances were made for 2006, somewhere in July. So she had already felt the nearness of the upcoming extraordinary parliamentary elections. G17, which has failed to do anything for the two and a half years they were in the government of the Republic of Serbia, comes up with the idea that something new, something that will bring good, come up with, make, propose as a special law, and eventually even form a NIP, or Ministry of Implementation of the NIP. This led to the formation of the previous government, which also included DS and the encrypted G17 party, was just a budget item, which reportedly referred to how in the Republic of Serbia, through this NIP, we would have a long-term investment policy in the country under the auspices of budgets, donations, lending and other possible revenues, and all reportedly for the benefit of citizens and the state of Serbia. You wrote all sorts of nonsense in this NIP, which often went down to the construction and painting of the premises of the Republic of Tax Administration, and even to the NIP, you listed what branches of the Republic Tax Administration would be created, to replacing the windows at some schools, replacing the creps from the donations of the European Bank or of which international organisations, and in each of these possible financial transfers, except that it was usually not done properly, one number of people who participated in this went through financially better and better. Let's take a look at what the NIP Department is doing first. I will read this to you from Article 22, which regulates the responsibilities of the NIP: "The Ministry of the NIP performs the tasks of the state administration relating to the NIP, system, development and promotion of the NIP project, strategic planning, initiating and implementing projects together with the relevant ministries, calling for projects, establishing project priorities, proposing to the Government of the NIP projects, budgeting for NIP projects... "Be careful now, what is exclusively within the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that part, when it comes to NIP, will work exclusively for the NIP ministry. When I read it like this, someone will say, "So what? "We will come to this later, to explain to you how the usurpation of government over two ministries is done, only over two -- you control the entire government in the state, financial and other flows in the state. "... participation in implementation and monitoring of projects by phases, supervision of project implementation, co-operation and coordination with ministries, bodies of autonomous provinces and bodies of units of local self-government; joint management of individual projects, cross-project coordination, monitoring of project implementation, measurement of project effects and evaluation of performance... "And so on, not to read. All in all, when someone looks at it, it's nothing serious and the question is, why does a ministry like this exist? However, if you get in a little bit, the problem is that since October 5th, all governments have not organised themselves and are not in the rule of unity, which means that the government has a single strategy, that the political parties forming the government through their MPs have the same strategy, to control and monitor each other, help each other. This isn't the case since October 5th. Since 5 October, each ministry has been a small state and each minister who, as a rule, is a senior official or president of a party, is working and laying accounts possibly only to his political party, provided that it has the opportunity to control it. That's what it's been like since the fifth of October 2000. However, in order to somehow manage the ministries and government of the Republic of Serbia, Mladjan Dinkic is introducing the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and the Ministry of the NIP. Watch out, no project, no budget giving, no investment, no matter whose jurisdiction, whether from education or any other, can be realised until it is agreed by either the NIP Ministry or the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. So none. Here's how far they've even gotten involved and what nonsense it is to come up with a NIP. Apparently, the MiG 29 interceptor remont is made of NIP funds. The most common remont (let it be investment, let be ongoing maintenance) is from the budget revenues of the ministry to which the property belongs. Will Mladjan Dinkic wonder when the plane should be remounted? Will Gilas wonder when a tank should be remounted? Isn't that the minister's job, isn't that his cabinet's job? Isn't that the military's job, after all? I guess they know that -- they're trained, trained, trained, prepared. No, here's the goal of doing everything from two, possibly three centers of power. There's also talk here about the Deputy Prime Minister and the various vice presidents, etc. In these two ministries lies the entire government in the Republic of Serbia. It is regrettable that the leader of a political party, which cannot even pass the censorship on its own, is one of the people who will regulate and control all financial flows in the country. That's your problem now, you've been hanging out with him and you're gonna have to swallow him, but let me tell you -- he was the one who cost the two previous governments the most. And this government, in which it is now with you, will also cost the most, most blackmailed. Those blackmails and the consequences of his blackmails were best felt by those of the DSS. They paid the most, but the younger one bows to the bigger one, makes a common list, and here he is again to control what's going on in the country. The majority of all these things that belong to the NIP so far belonged to the Ministry of Finance, means whoever suffers the consequences of political responsibility when tax revenues are collected. And it was all right while the finance minister was Mladjan Dinkic. Here, we discussed one law, the tax procedure law and the tax administration, where the finance minister, at the time it was Mladjan Dinkic, could even change the law without the Assembly, without the government. So it's more than a monarch. There's a man above the law. You're giving so much power to one of these, essentially insignificant, political personalities, to ask the question of what he's in charge of, and that's how you treat him. I'm just going to make a few more points when it comes to the NIP Ministry. This is about local self-government. You know what, it's not hard at all, some are, I'm going to say names later, but it's not hard for someone to be a successful president of the municipality if he's from his political party, Minister for the NIP. There's the biggest example of the Indji municipality. You have, by all means, been able to secure or release all possible budgets, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has managed to free from the most frequent pensions and other contributions that go towards improving the social situation of citizens, from such municipalities where you are in power. What are the results, I don't want to get into it, I'm not from that community, but I can say that, let's just say, even though, someone can't be a successful president of the municipality. I'm just going to name a few examples when the NIP was abused, right in municipalities where the G17 is in power. For example. In the municipality of Žagubica, the entire achievement of Mladjan Dinkic is a promise for some ski centres in the mountains around Zaguvica, where there is no snow for more than 30 days a year. It's obvious that the projects in Kopalnik and Zlatibor are over, now it has to move into the construction phase, and there's less commissions being taken, and now we're going to be working on other mountains, where there's no snow, but we're building ski centres. And the greatest achievement is the balloon hall that was supposed to be paid by the NIP ministry, the allocated funds of twelve million dinars spent, the municipalities to end up spending so much more, and from the whole story it seems to me that only those who had the funds went well. The greatest achievement is not roads, it's not infrastructure, it's not investment, it's spending goods just to make as much money as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u781	Anyone else want a word to discuss this amendment? Yeah. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u782	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are three minutes left for the SRS parliamentary group to explain this amendment to Mr Krasic, asking to be deleted from the list of ministries, as already imagined by the future government or the assembly majority, by the Ministry of National Investment Plan. My predecessor, counterpart Arsic, gave valid arguments. There's only one thing I'd like to add. What the reasons for this ministry's jurisdiction are, if you've paid attention to that, we come to the conclusion that, in addition to having one vice-president who will be more important than the other vice-presidents, we will have, if we have this ministry, another minister who will be much more important than the other ministers. Here, to read what he needs to do: ''The NIP Ministry is doing the tasks of the state administration relating to NIP, system, development and promotion of NIP projects, strategic planning, initiating and implementing projects along with competent ministries, calling for public calls for project selection... ''He will be the one who may gather ministers from different resors: education, health care, infrastructure, telecommunications, regardless of who they are, but he is the one who will decide afterwards and who will determine the priorities of the projects. He calls for a public call for project selection, he sets priorities and he proposes to the government of NIP projects. Don't forget that the projects, they're likely to be, the education needs are great, the health needs are great, the infrastructure is too, and then that man, who's going to be at the head of this ministry, is going to be a hat or a dad to all these other ministers, and twice in the budget, we're going to spend money on the same things. Let's say, at the position of the Ministry of Education or Culture or Health and again in this Ministry of NIP, which should cover the same things. It's a little contradictory, and it's a little expensive. We don't really think it's rational that this kind of ministry exists, especially with the kind of authority it's been given. In the end, neither the Constitution allows nor allows ministers to be unequal in the work of the government. And if they depend on whether they're successful or not, then they're going to have to court this gentleman who's going to head the Investment Plan Ministry, and that's where I think, then we can't expect each of us to give a maximum and we're going to have positive results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u783	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Jojic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u784	I've reported in accordance with the provisions of the article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Serbian citizens have the right to seek answers and to ask questions to the MPs, and I, as the MP coming from Panchev, want to inform the MPs of the Assembly and the citizens of Panchev and all of Serbia that the DS violates the Constitution, the law and all the positive norms of our right. In line with the Rules of Procedure on Labour of SO Panchevo and the Statute of the Municipality of Pančevo, which has not yet been harmonised, given that Panchevo has gained the status of the city, I was the one who scheduled a constitutional session held on 29 May 2008. At that session, we carried out a verification of the board's mandate. Afterwards, we interrupted the session because the committee agreed that the session should be terminated and preparations for the session to be held below, in order to select the competent authorities in the Pancheva City Assembly. On 30 May of this year, an initiative by the DS was launched to call for a continuation of the session. The initiative was signed by 25 committee members. When I received this initiative, I saw that it was not in line with the Rules of Procedure, because it was agreed and the Rules of Procedure should be proposed by the authorities who are elected. In particular, Panchev was to be elected president of the Panchev City Assembly. However, I replied to the DS that it is necessary to complete and office their submission and their initiative so much that, in the initiative to launch the follow-up session, they will give a proposal to the candidates of the Panchev City Assembly in order for the committees to have time to prepare and, in that case, to open the debate and to answer certain questions. The session is scheduled for the Rules of Procedure of SO Panchevo, colleagues, by written means, but is scheduled seven days before the session is held. However, I received information an hour ago that the DS in Pancheva had failed, past the Rules of Procedure, past the Law on Local Elections, past the Statutes, so the Constitution was violated, the Statute was violated, the Rules of Procedure of SO Panchevo was violated, and thus DS has a different approach when local government should be formed.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u785	Three minutes and 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u786	I'll finish, please. Are these double standards? How is it not a shame, DS? Why didn't she do it in Belgrade? I've scheduled a session, first of all, before the law determines...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u787	Four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u788	The results were set on May 12th, and on July 12th, I scheduled a session, which means in a specific case that within 60 days, what you are calling for, the Statute and the Rules of Procedure of the City of Belgrade, I had done before, so I scheduled that session. Now DS and its stakeholders are going to enter eventually...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u789	Four minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u790	I'll finish not to answer again. The Democratic Party, therefore, selectively implements positive legal regulations. This congregation that is announced, if held tomorrow, will be illegal and will not be long - term because it is a congregation that cannot be appointed by one who is not in charge of the Rules of Procedure and who has no right or authority. This is, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Panchev, one democratic violence and a democratic dictatorship that is being seduced in Serbia, and in a concrete case dictatorship is just trying to break through Panchev, but therefore it will have to be accounted for for for by those huge billions, 12 billion taxpayers on the territory of the Pancheva municipality in three years, they will have to now say where they spent. Therefore, this session, if held, will be illegal and we will challenge it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u791	Anyone else want a word by amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Ivan Andric, Zoran Ostojić and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the promoters want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u792	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, we have proposed this amendment to delete the existence of two ministries from the Government Act. These are the Ministry of National Investment Plan and the Ministry of Diaspora. We don't expect the ruling majority to listen to it in advance or that these unnecessary ministries will end, we just wanted this amendment to draw attention to the most banal example of unnecessary introduction into the institutional framework of the ministries. So there were a lot of words here about this government being too bulky and containing an unnecessarily large number of ministries. Four days of this debate, and to this day we have heard no explanation of why it is. There have been many examples here and I would no longer repeat how many ministries have similar or similar size, but what's interesting is that how many of the declared goals of the new ruling majority of Serbia's accession to the European Union, that's how many are in line. So, as you know, the European Union has 27 members right now. Each member state has one representative in what can be called the European Union government, or the European Commission, the European Union Commission, so that our government will be more than the 27-member government of the European Union and more than 500 million people, or about 60 times more than Serbia. Even those in such inconsistencies have managed to settle themselves so that fewer people are enough than our government needs to regulate relations in Serbia itself. Since we have not received any explanation, it remains only that suspicion or the reason that such a number of ministries were needed because there are a large number of party members in the ruling coalition. Unfortunately, even that argument, we have repeatedly said, is not enough to pass this law, and there is no need to look for examples in countries in an environment or in countries in Europe. I will remind you that in 2001, the DOS, which came to power in Serbia, formed a government headed by Zoran Djindjic, that the coalition was composed of 17 parties and had fewer cabinet members than this government will have today. So it's unacceptable to explain that the coalition is the reason. We have said several times that we do not have the right, as MPs of the opposition, to interfere in parities, in size, or part of power, or part of the responsibility that every party in your coalition will assume on itself, and this is a matter of the ruling coalition, or coalition agreement in the formation of the ruling majority, but we have the right to draw attention to that in the same proportions this government could have been much less. Unfortunately, some other topics dominate and draw attention from this debate, but we see by a large number of amendments, which have been submitted by almost all parliamentary groups, including parliamentary groups of the ruling coalition, that everyone feels the problem and that everyone is aware that this kind of government really does not need Serbia or that it will contribute to a better life in Serbia. So I'll go back to what the subject is, specifically this amendment, we'll talk more about it, but in our opinion, at least four ministries are completely unnecessary for the first scheduled review. First of all, it's the Ministry of National Investment Plan and the Ministry of Diaspora. There is no doubt that it was only done to give some member of the coalition another post. So far, the National Investment Plan has allocated the NIP Office, and I must admit that no one in Serbia was clear on what strategy, on what plan the money was distributed, except for everyone's clarity, and we heard that in the previous debate, that this office was a major means of manipulation in the pre-election campaign. Now only this manipulation is institutionalized and, unfortunately, even from this division that we just heard, it's clear that this ministry with a part of the money and the size of the budget will belong to the party G17, it doesn't matter to whom it's personal, and it's thus grouping that financial lobby. More about it when it's specifically that member of the law. On the other hand, there's the Diaspora Ministry. It's completely incomprehensible why you made that ministry. The whole time there was the Diaspora Administration, if I understand correctly, at the Foreign Ministry, who was also handling this issue. When we looked at jurisdiction in the law, we saw that it was an example. The responsibility for informing our citizens in the diaspora is also one part contained in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thus, a banal review of jurisdiction shows that two ministries are completely unnecessary. Please once again, even though I know it's impossible because it's a much more complicated question than any civil or conscientious MP here, I've known you all for a long time and I understand that you understand what I'm saying, but try to reconsider this. Your decision will be difficult for Serbia, as one of the poorest countries in Europe, to have the largest and most expensive government in Europe. By adopting this law, we come first. The government that was smaller in the last term left a hole from, if I'm not mistaken, 500 million dinars in the budget until the sixth month of this year. We are now making an even bigger government, we expect this public spending to be even higher, and surely there is no way it will be smaller if, from the very beginning of the organization of a state administration, it is done in such a way as to make full use of state resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u793	The word is delivered by MP Tomislav Nikolic, debate on the amendment to Article 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think a little differently about your right to determine the number of ministries, how expensive or not the government is. In fact, there are ministries that have three or four employees, so I can't say it's going to cost anything in particular, but I think those ministries exist just to count as ministries, to satisfy all coalition partners. But this is the Ministry of National Investment Plan, it's an organized robbery, an organized systematic robbery of the state. That's what you DS gentlemen do. You're selling people's property. You are the money acquired by the sale of people's property arranged exclusively in accordance with DS interests. No program goes without the DS municipal board's office. No program goes without your highest-ranking officials. All the money, acquired and kidnapped by people, and some sort of auction sale, and suspicious sales in which many people, including Bogoljub Karic, are probably damaged so God forbid we come to power and he gets some kind of dispute abroad. You'll be back, that's what I'm telling you. So all the money that's earned by selling someone is DS property. So far uninstitutionalized, and now right through the Ministry itself. That really doesn't make sense. It's no way for you to survive as a party. And that's not the way for 20 of your people to be the richest people in Belgrade. They use it for that. It's just a way to make the citizens of Serbia even more angry. Em none of these sales (when sold, this factory is closed), and none of them are seen by the citizens, and there is no success, and there is no employment, and there is more and more bad living, and all the money that comes from it – you're the one who's setting it up. Don't be surprised that, when it comes to bribery and corruption, it is directly related to it by some DS, Belgrade, and those in power, in the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's uncontrollable. I don't know if you've ever held money in your hands, have you ever had money that doesn't cost you at all, that nobody asks you how he left, that you know no one will ask you in the next term. There's no end to it. 15-16 years ago, the Socialists arrested two of their ministers. In the worst of misery, 800,000 marks were found, somewhere in Kruševec, under stone slabs in their father's yard. We were all working for a few marks then. I was so naive to ask: well, when he stole 50,000 marks, what was he looking for next? Because that was maybe half the Duke of Michael's street at the time. Then people told me, listen, when he took 50, the next time he asked for 100, when he took 100, the next time he asked for 300. That's how it works. It doesn't stop there at all. When you have billions in euros at your disposal and you put them in Gilas' hands, but only Gilasu's hands, what are you surprised that he has the most beautiful building in Belgrade, and the one he lives in and the one he works in? And then why are you surprised that he's funding all his work on January 1st of the year? The state paid him money to advertise through its companies and then a year after he had that state money, and he got richer and richer, and with four employees moved to five, increased his employment by 25% in his company, and bought three more mobile phones, a little bit for spinning. As long as you don't break up with that, you're not a good partner for anyone, except for these little ones who would in any way come to power. Until you break up with it, Europe will help you campaign to beat the SRS, but it will not help you lead the country well four years later. Europe is threatened with bribery and corruption in the DS ranks, and therefore you, from the extraordinary positions that Europe has led you to, you are not moving on at all. Because you can't move on, you can't do it when you're in crime to stop and say, "We won't do it anymore." You can't clear your ranks. When you obviously have people involved in crime, there's no sanctions, there's no punishment. When you promised to resolve the Bodrum affair, the young Selimovic answered, while Pajtic was stealing votes in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Ask G17 plus, who accused you of stealing here. You were accused of stealing votes in the assembly by today's coalition partner, and then he joined the government with you, and then he charged a lot of money. And today he's going to charge a lot of money and he's going to charge for it while you're... You're not a milk cow, you're a machine, and Serbia is a milk cow. You just push under the Serbian tits of a boob machine. It doesn't cost you anything, ladies and gentlemen of the DS. It costs Serbia. That's why you're afraid of changing power, so you're doing everything you can, which is why you're shaking Serbia with undemocratic moves, which is why you don't even have a "d" from democracy, which is why you need the NIP Ministry. Is there a country in the world that has another budget besides budget? Is there a country in the world that does not provide budget financing for all its needs, but is making another budget available to the budget one of the parties? What do you wonder, then, that those of G17 plus are taking over their finances, what are these others going to take over, what are they going to do, what are they going to pull aside, what are you going to have to vote for? Because you're not a team capable of doing what's right, honest and honest. I repeat, not you who are here in the benches, but those who sit in these first benches, you carry the burden and curse of ministers who have grown encumbered in bribery and corruption. People are equating you with them, and you may not have anything to do with it, and maybe you have nothing to do with it. I wish you were so convinced that they're clean, that now they're one 20 replicas, so let's get to cutting down those ministers, see who did who, and who did what. But you won't, you know I'm right, only party solidarity obliges you not to applaud when I tell you this. The court of Boris Tadic has taken you into your own hands, you run around Serbia, you spread the ideas of DS, and the court chamber shares functions, positions and properties.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u795	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? Yeah. MP Zoran Ostojić. National MP Ivan Andric took advantage of the right of the promoter. The parliamentary group has 15 minutes at their disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u796	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I must remind you that the LDP parliamentary group was a little over a year ago, when a government that was not meant to be assembled was also asked to reduce the number of ministries. Simply, the country is in debt, taxes are large, there is no money, and the ministries that should satisfy then the appetites of coalition partners, now the appetites of coalition partners, which by the criteria do not deserve to be ministries, should not be ministries. Because what kind of ministry is that with three or five people? It just means title, business card, official car and what goes with it. That is not what the people who voted for Europe's Serbia, the people who voted to bring Serbia closer to Europe, want to pay. They want to pay for something else, but there's no money for everything. That is why we propose that, among these several ministries that do not deserve to be ministries, these amendments should be abolished by the Ministry of Diaspora and the Ministry of the NIP. Unlike others, who are sorry they didn't come into a position to share money from the NIP, we don't think that's how it should be done in the future. The budget exists, the money from the NIP, or now the NIP Ministry, if it stays, could begin to be called the'minister for the purchase of votes', because all the money that is divided there can be distributed to the ministry that really needs to exist, without saying there's money that's all there is to be invested. The country will not get close to Europe with taxpayers' money used to buy votes in pre-election time. The country will move closer to Europe and will reduce the unemployment rate of money that will come from the outside. In order for that money to come out, we have to have a cheap and efficient state. The law on ministries proposed by the future assembly majority is all but a reflection of a cheap and efficient state. It reflects an expensive and inefficient state. It is paid by citizens of Serbia, both by those who voted for the future assembly majority, and by those citizens who voted for other parties, which will not belong to it, and among them there are parties that suggest the abolition of the NIP ministry just because they did not come in line to manage it. The LDP proposes that these two ministries be abolished for principled reasons, because we advocate a reduction in public spending. That's what we keep saying, but obviously there's not much anyone who can hear. Simply, this country should allow people to make money, not take their money and then buy votes through some Santa Clauses in the campaign. The NIP is a paradigm for such behaviour and therefore this ministry, in our opinion, should not exist. When the amendments come into order individually, to remove the Ministry of the NIP and the Ministry of Diaspora, we will explain in more detail how and what powers the current draft law has given can and in which ministries can be transferred. In any case, it is clear that the Ministry of Diaspora is essentially "the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Serbs", and we already have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and since the Serbs are in the diaspora outside, it is certainly the ministry, along with the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and other ministries, can take over these responsibilities. When it comes to the Ministry of the NIP, it is clear that the money that is being allocated here must go to those users who have now been taken away – when it comes to schools, it is the Ministry of Education, when it comes to health homes, it is the Ministry of Health. It would be cleaner, regardless of the appetites of coalition partners, to make this effort. The appetites of small coalition partners can also be satisfied in other ways, not so transparent, not so rude and not so expensive for Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u797	We move to the debate on the amendment to Article 2. I apologize, MP Vesna Pesic, for the debate on the amendment. You have nine minutes and 30 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u798	I believe that, when it comes to this amendment for the abolition of two ministries (although, as far as I'm concerned, I would abolish a few more ministries), but it makes sense to talk about the number of ministries, which is really too large and which, as can be seen, needs more to meet certain personal and party needs than citizens need. I think the number is important, because it's really time, that citizens are watching us, that they're also grown up in this period, they know it's not all state anymore. We used to think that nothing was ours, that everything we had was state. Of course, many people believe it today, but a large number of citizens are trained and knows that nothing is state-owned, that everything the state has, which the state has, pays the ministries and other services, is practically from tax revenues. So they became aware that everything, in fact, we're paying, and that's why they're sensitive. If they don't have to pay more, why pay more? When it comes to not being an important number, it is an important number. Save it, man, for God's sake, there's no money for this people to support some unnecessary ministries and there's no need for us to have a large number of ministries because some people would like to be ministers to meet some needs. So it makes sense to talk about saving, and I support the amendment that these two ministries are abolished. I think maybe two or three more could be lifted, and I think the citizens would say hello. I can tell you that on the street they asked me why we have six vice presidents when only two can. Although I tried to convince them that it wasn't very expensive, I just want to say that they are really watching and watching how much money is spent by those who represent power. That's one of the reasons, which is very important, to save. The other thing is the issue of the organization. Indeed, you have a large number of ministries and you are increasing the number of ministries as you can think of, without reason, please, I insist on that, you absolutely have no explanation why the NIP Ministry is being introduced. When an argument is said, then arguments are sought and answers why it is created. When you look at it, no argument is given, nor was it in some public debate, nor were we here to discuss it, but simply to rewrite what is in the explanation, what is the ministry doing. What's the ministry for? Why was that necessary? I don't think there's any state where a new ministry is created, but it doesn't show why it's necessary. I don't think there should be only one ministry for centuries. No, new problems are emerging. Surely, even in modern societies, there was no Ministry of Environment, for Ecology, these are new problems, and then it is explained why the Ministry of Ecology is being introduced. Why was the Ministry introduced for some kind of plan? If we look at a little bit of biographical or historical, we know that it's the NIP Department's ad hoc out, no consulting, no thinking whatsoever, no debate. It was, in one word, Mladjan Dinkic, when the 2006 campaign, when it was due to buy votes in the campaign, threw out the NIP. Why? Because, as far as I can see, this NIP serves the most to do something in underdeveloped municipalities. Is it necessary, as is said, outside the budget to form some kind of fund for undeveloped or local roads or something? Because that's what it's about most of the time. There is no strategy for what these money is spent on, nor is there control of how these money is spent, and secondly, there really is a discretionary right for it to be directed where we want to buy votes. Therefore, there is no explanation for this ministry because it cannot be explained at all. Not to say, what I said yesterday, that there's no point in any ministry or minister assigning any money, any money, but maybe we could have a development bank if it was necessary for the municipalities to be in charge of their own needs, and then introduce order, that ministers couldn't buy their positions in power by setting up these ministries. That's why I supported this ministry being abolished. There is no argument by the authorities, we have not seen why, except to strengthen the corrupt aspect of the functioning of the current authorities. I mean not only the present, but all the authorities, but 20 years. All these authorities are corrupt. The directors themselves used to be at Milosevic's, remember the director Simpa, and the gentleman who was the director of Progress, they were all directors and ministers at the same time. We're used to such a conflict of interest, and we didn't pay attention to it. I think it's always been corrupt, it's always been a conflict of interest. We really should once stand in the way of pre-planning the ministries that we know we have no control and that they will spread corruption in our country. The other thing I wanted to say is, it's the Diaspora Ministry. I can give you some experience. You've seen this ministry waste money needlessly. If that ministry is not necessary, it is also seen that very few citizens living abroad are using their electoral rights in the first place. This journey, to be gone and to be spent as if we were some drunken millionaires, is being beaten up by the resources of our citizens, that all those who have lists, whether they are presidential, whether they are republican, simply refer to two of their representatives who on all continents where our people allegedly control these polling stations. Now that we're proposing the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society, when we can have all kinds of technologies to vote these people in the diaspora that they want, we're sending people all over the continents to be in some kind of electoral body. It's like they can't have embassies (here, I was an ambassador) to make electoral control, to control these elections, but to get people out of here. This has proved to be completely unnecessary. So I would ask that it be absolutely considered that this ministry, which I would call "the travel ministry", (any one that controls the electoral process, be it those who are alone in that ministry, the state secretaries, to whom money is thrown) are abolished. You don't have any results. Believe that the task of all embassies, where we have them, and where we don't have them, cannot even be realised, one of the main duties of each of our DKPs, means our embassies, is working with the diaspora. There are no duties that would be more important than working with a diaspora. So, first of all, all the services that are given there. I can tell you that before that, our citizens, since our embassies were filled with only some kind of spies, some kind of rescuers, and then they bullied our citizens so much that they made a series of circles to calm down to even get into the embassy, how they used to be treated in those embassies. That's what the diaspora position looked like. But that has changed since October 5th, since such a government went where, in fact, only mutually spyed on what anyone says, and not who does what, so there's no need, it really takes the foreign ministry and our DKP to do it, to deal with the diaspora. There's no reason for a special ministry to do that. If the diaspora were to be considered Serbs outside Serbia in general, I think it has nothing to do with this ministry. If this applies to, say, the rights of Serbs in Croatia, if this applies to Serbs in Kosovo, Serbs in Bosnia, Slovenia or anywhere else, it means where to provide some services, I don't see whether this ministry did anything when it came to neighbouring countries or something like that. So, it didn't show much, especially since the candidates in the election tried to please Dodik or anyone in that type of diaspora to make it better here in the election. So we don't need such a "dispersive ministry" for both savings and for the sake of organization. The LDP has already proposed that the coalition's proportion, as we understand it, should share a number of ministries and its partners, but this can also be done proportionally in a small number of ministries, to keep the same proportion or proportion as people agreed, and there is no need to create a corrupt ministry or retain ministries that have not produced any results. I suggest we don't get distracted because that kind of power, believe me, seems sociable to the citizens. If we're not doing the best we can, if we underestimate the interests of the citizens, then that means that we're associative, that we don't care, that we're completely indifferent. If in these ministries (and not to say what would be the damage in the corrupting effect of these ministries, what was also said here) save 100,000 euros, why not save our citizens 100,000 euros? We've got welfare, disabled people, etc. We have a socially responsible state, and why should these funds not be spent much more useful than they are spent like this? So the waste of money is not necessary, and we will consistently advocate that the ministries that are unnecessary be abolished, to save the funds of our citizens and taxpayers.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u799	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u800	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I don't know if you missed it, I listened carefully to the previous speaker, in explaining why this ministry should be abolished, that is, why it should not exist in the future government, in one sentence it was said: I understand if this ministry would deal with the position of Serbs, let's say, in Croatia or in Kosovo and Metohija. Does this mean that we do not consider Kosovo and Metohija an integral part of our country? What's a diaspora? I can't believe Mrs. Pesic accidentally said that. It is obvious that this part of our country considers something that has already been done, and I believe that if we were to declare ourselves here in the Assembly, and I suppose the time will come for us to talk about it, the parliamentary group to which it belongs, or she would certainly declare herself that this is already over and that Kosovo and Metohija are not an integral part of our country. The constitution doesn't say so, and until the Constitution says so, until the people say so, until we here in parliament say so, it shouldn't be something like this for the assembly speaker to be delivered. Stanographic notes exist, and I think I got it right, and if it's some kind of mistake, if she really didn't mean it that way, then she should go out for this pay phone and say she doesn't think so. But the stenogram certainly contains exactly what I said, that it understands that there is a diaspora ministry that would deal with the issue of the position of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Imagine the ministry to deal with the issue of Serbs outside our country, and it deals with the issue of the Serb position in its own state. I think it's embarrassing, and I had to draw attention to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u801	The word is made by MP Branimir Djokic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u802	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a duty to refer to the story of Parliamentarian Ms Vesna Pesic that the Ministry of Diaspora should be abolished. I think this is misread, when we know that somewhere between two and four million Serbs live outside Serbia, outside the queen. Another story is that the diaspora ministry, headed by the previous minister, who led the ministry, and certain structures that worked in the ministry did what they did. Since the money was spent, since the money was even distributed by the diaspora, it's a special story. In the previous term, I was president of the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, and we were warning and asking to create subcommittees that would in some way co-operate closely with the Diaspora Ministry in order to have common insight into the work of the ministry, so that it could communicate better with Serbs outside Serbia. But I think the problem with the ministries is that it wasn't done and that the diaspora ministry was actually on its own, the state of the country, and it did what it did. This does not mean that it should be abolished, but it should be asked whether the people working in that ministry are responsible and whether they spend money on how they should spend it, which is obtained for the right things, so that our people living outside Serbia can somehow connect with the queen. That's the whole problem. I think if we're dealing with how money is spent in the ministries, it's not the only place where no one has control over how money is spent and where it's untouchable. I think we can solve this problem just to control the spending of money in the ministries. So, the diaspora ministry is necessary and it should exist in view of this number of our people living far from their queen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u803	National MP Branimir Djokic pointed out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but since the member's quote was missing, I cannot follow the Rules of Procedure and give you an explanation, since it obviously did not refer to the obligations of the chairman in the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Pesic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u804	I don't want to make parallels, here, I'm getting lost, but maybe tomorrow won't be like that. I remember that with your boss, today, who is in The Hague today and then and present, I also had one debate when I said that Republika Srpska Krajina in Croatia will be part of Croatia for purely functional reasons, because they have divided Croatia into two parts, and that Croatians will return it eventually, and then it was surprised. If I said it was diaspora back then, you'd be going out as well if you were talking. And here I am now saying for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and for Dodik, and for Croatia, and for Montenegro and you, sit quietly, and for you now it is a diaspora. Well, look how it goes. Now, it can be, since we haven't actually controlled this territory since 1999, given that the territory is occupied and that Kosovo has declared independence, it can happen, in this sequence, that the next day too. That's one tendency, which has turned out, and given these facts I've said, it could really be the next day. I would just like to say that this competition of patriotism that I just heard, or one of your MPs said that the radicals of the greatest patriots, please, I must tell you that this love, which you have seized and that you should bother us that you are something like the Serbs, and then we rank ourselves according to how much we all less love Serbs, it seems to me that you are like a Serbian mother, so that -- I gave birth to him, and I will kill him. As far as you Serbs are concerned, no one has hurt them that much. So don't push your chest again. Set up some criteria, that we know some objective standards of love, not that people come out here to teach us lessons about how they love Serbs most, as they only care, they care about us the most. Then, believe me, we need to establish some permanent criteria, write here, know which ones are your biggest fans, which I think have ruined the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u805	Natasa Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u806	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vesni Pesic has not lost anything. She tends to know very well what she's saying. Over 20 and over years, he has been conducting a policy that was not even at the time when you tried to talk, but of course it remained only in an attempt, not with our boss, but with the president of our party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, who, Mrs. Pesic, tried to explain to you in various television shows, behind the assembly pay phone, that these reasons that guide you to think about Serbs from Republika Srpska, Serbs from Republika Srpska (now you have quite openly said that it was no loss, that is your consciousness and subconscious), about Serbs with KIM, are not rational reasons, but purely traitorous nature. That policy has led you to the point that you are one of the chains in that group that implements such a policy. I don't know how many times it takes, through the retrospective of all choices, if you want me to repeat it again, from 1991 to today, to tell you that we rightly accepted ourselves to be, as you said, both father and mother of Serbia. We have to be that because the one who is the greatest fighter for Serbia and the Serbian national interest, and with whom you have had the honor of talking and trying to find out, is doing exactly that today. That we're right, says this process that happened today in that anti-Serbian Hague casamat. Who was saying that Naser Orić was a convicted villain (and this was confirmed today), and that he was in the service of Western forces, and that he was so-called. The Hague tribunal, which was founded just to be tried by the Serb people, was designed to allegedly attribute the crimes others committed against us to Serbian heroes? Well, you see, it won't work. Although they finally gave a liberating verdict for the one who is a direct murderer of over three thousand Serbs, make sure that, and if they don't release, and based on this whole laurdiment so far and on these 30 and the change of ridiculous witnesses, they could do so, our President Vojislav Seselj, make sure that if this trial continues, and what he is doing there, and where he confirms these facts that you dispute, that Serbian radicals were Serbian heroes and heroes, that those who served the heart and country, not those who did an individual act against the customs of war, which he also said there, but that all others were honorable heroes, Serbian Chets, because they were also called the children of Partisans and Chetniks in the last country wars. These were wars to defend Serbian territories. If you haven't already figured that out, and I'm in your shoes, and because of the years and so vainly dealing with a political idea that doesn't bring you a single vote (here, I'm finishing), it would be a shame to know that here in the parliamentary benches, that's the sixth row from here, sitting the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska in exile, as they say, Mr. Milorad Buhha. This country existed and, if, one day, by a wise policy, by diplomatic means, by strengthening Serbia, we will restore our territories and Mr Milorad Buha has not put all his efforts into gathering still our exiled Serbs for nothing. When you didn't know in 20 years, Mrs. Pesic, to learn the geographical map and to say correctly: Karlobag-Ogulin-Karlovac-Virovica, and I always have to remind you that Karlobag is at sea, I have nothing more to say to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u807	National MP Natasa Jovanovic did not highlight a member of the Rules of Procedure who was injured, so I cannot fulfil my obligation to the chairman to explain. But since she talked about who's sitting in the parliamentary benches, I'm obliged to apply Article 120. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the Service to enter the Assembly Hall, take parliamentary cards in places where MPs do not sit and place them in front of the hall, and MPs who want to turn to the National Assembly session to register in the electronic identification system, under the same obligation of Article 120, in order to be able to give them a word. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic. Did you identify yourself where you were sitting or elsewhere? Yeah. Here you are, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u808	Ladies and gentlemen, nothing new in the West, an old story in the East. Mrs. Comic is back on the line. Here, I'm evacuating the memories of 2000 and, right to tell you, it's not easy for me because I wish I could forget that period of our parliamentaryism, if it can be called that at all because it was the rape of the National Assembly and the rape of this people. But I didn't answer because of Mrs. Comic, who has nowhere else to throw out everything she wants to say, so she's bothering us here and she thinks by midnight we're going to listen to her words that absolutely mean nothing. I called to draw attention to the Serbian public first of all that we do not need to talk about ourselves as patriots, that we are nationalists, that these traitors, etc. Simply because of what we're doing, the people understand who is who and who is on which side, if you can say it at all. You can't even let someone who pleads to call themselves a tall intellectual know the difference between patriotism and nationalism. Here, I'll take the opportunity to tell you and everyone else -- patriotism is love for my country, and nationalism is love for my people. We Serbian radicals are both, but we're not chauvinists and we don't have those ugly feelings that you have for other peoples. The fact that you allegedly knew what was going to happen, and how we knew what was coming for us, but we were trying to stop it. Unlike us, you built the scenario together with those who broke up our country, who persecuted our people, who called out tomahawks and bombers to our country in 1999. The difference between you and us is that we were aware enough to know what was going on, but we weren't accomplices to these events, but those who were trying to prevent that disaster that was surmounted to us, here, the whole 20th century on our shoulders and, unfortunately, here we are, ten years after 2000, since you have been here with the help of your Western mentors still destroying and economically and politically this country and are trying to make it a Belgrade pasture. We're gonna keep fighting it so it doesn't happen, and if it does, it's not us we're gonna handle it, it's you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u809	Mr. Buha's doing business, and then Mrs. Pesic, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u810	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this statement that Republika Srpska will become part of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Pesic said in 1993, when Serbs in Republika Srpska lost their lives. Let me just say that between 1991 and 1995 7,000 people died, 15,000 wounded, 800,000 Serbs were expelled from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia. Mrs. Pesic makes such a statement during the period when mothers and fathers bury their children, when fighters on the battlefield defend and their families, and children, and gardens and property. It's a shame, Mrs. Pesic, to make such statements. It's a shame about Kosovo and Metohija, too. You are violating the Constitution, in a period when the tragedy of the Serbian people cannot be seen. But you're not alone. Your party and many other parties do the same. You make fun of the Constitution, this country and the people. It's embarrassing for those parents who buried their children, who took care of them, to say that it would fall. You're conducting a policy of the United States, the EU and the Vatican. It's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u811	Mrs. Vesna Pesic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u812	I will not answer these charges because it was good of you to say who was pushing Serbs in Croatia into this war. The hat pushed them into that war. We have now seen footage of him pushing you into these wars, and when the Croatian Storm came, he betrayed you so well, by Milosevic. They're real traitors. They pushed people into war, and then they left them. Simply, we from NGOs were waiting for them, Milosevic wouldn't let them into the cities, we waited for them, we brought them milk at the border because they had nothing. Where were you then? Then what did you say? You didn't say anything. The SRS is a traitor to me, because it first issued that part of the Serbian people that was most vulnerable, which is the Serbian people in Croatia. I saw on the video saying, "Don't listen to that captain, he'll leave." And what's the matter, why didn't he stay there to defend that people, but he got kidnapped? And you also kidnapped, did not stay in Croatia, and did not defend the Serbian people in Croatia, but issued it along with your leader Slobodan Milosevic. The main argument, when asked about it, is that everyone who knows that a Serb by nationality knew that it was not necessary to break up the country that you broke. You didn't know Mr. Seselj at the time, and I did. I met him in 1979. None of you knew Seselj then. I know what he was saying. He was in prison, we waited for him in "The Majestics" and talked when he got out of prison. Did you talk to him then? You're not. Did you know him? You're not. And I knew him. I know what he started to say. He began to talk about creating "The Great Serbia", about breaking and pushing the Serbian people into wars. That's what he started saying in the mid-80s. The one who planned to break Yugoslavia on ethnic grounds and push Serbs into wars and what is now seen, what is doing in The Hague, is the one who has done the most harm to the Serbian people and led to what you, Mr. Buha, are talking about, with which I am very compassionate, and with those mothers who have buried. You were pushed into war. Who visited you there, who shared weapons? It was Mr. Vojislav Seselj and all sorts of "migrants". Here, there's Mr. Pelevic, also one of those who did it with his boss, Arkan. Therefore, it is known who did it, who arrested Serbs in Belgrade, drove them to Erdut and peed on them. That's what you've been doing. It was all done by these guards and the SRS. Therefore, endangering the elemental dignity of people and anyone, it was the SRS that was working.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u813	Mrs. Radeta, according to the Rules of Procedure. I'd like your attention to focus on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u814	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there is no reason for any special mood. Mrs. Vesna Pesic just couldn't stand to bring out her true face here, her true nature, her true function. Don't go out, Mrs. Vesna Pesic, we have a lot to tell you and you will hear. I'll remind you, I suppose, since you're a well-read woman, that you've read the book of Professors. Dragan Filipovic, who is called "The Anatomy of Globalist Stink". That's where he described you as one of those stinkers who worked for American interests a long time ago. So, as you can see, everything someone does, everything is written down, everything remains. You can't fool anyone, as you just brought out here a lie that no one knew Professor. The shekel at a time when you knew him, and then you agreed that in 1979 you met him and that he was the one who advocated Greater Serbia. Professor Seselj, for example, I've known him since 1975 and we've been friends ever since. So you were able to meet him in 1989, and in 1979 it was very difficult. I remind you that Mr. Vojislav Seselj was in the women's box in the '80s because he fought against what you belonged to, since you're the daughter of a high-ranking officer, a military officer, like all of you who belong to that group of 'globalistic stink', as you are. Dragan Filipovic described you all under one rail. (President: Please take care of how you address. Prof. Vojislav Seselj, the truth is, he advocated and advocated "Great Serbia". The idea of "The Great Serbia" is his idea, it's the idea of the SRS. As long as we live and as long as we are involved in politics, our political blade will be directed right at creating conditions for the formation of "Great Serbia", and Professor Vojislav Seselj leads his fight for Serbian national interests and for Serbia today in the Hague casamat. I heard from you personally that you didn't sleep at night because you listen to him. From this place you said you were following the trial. And you should, maybe learn something, you're still young, there's a time, though hard.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u815	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u816	I'm done, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. So, Professor Vojislav Seselj is, and I told you this morning, today he is fighting there for the honour of the volunteers of the SRS and of the Serb people. It's foreign to you. You work for U.S. dollars and you have to fight for global American interests. Thank God, you are a minority in Serbia, and there will be fewer and fewer of you, and we Serbian radicals, sincere patriots, followers of Vojislav Seselj, are growing from day to day, and especially in a few months, when he returns to us, when he returns to Serbia, when he can answer your questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u817	The word is Fired Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u818	Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I am really talking to you, I am not talking to Mrs. Pesic. You're my esteemed colleague, friend Verica Radet, two or three times interrupted in order to warn her, I suppose, because of rudeness or whatever. However, you showed more than the tolerance threshold when Mrs Pesic used really rude words by addressing my distinguished colleague and the man I respect very much, Mr Pelevic. It is rude not only for Mr Pelevic's sake but also for the Serb people who follow the work of this assembly. These words of hers threatened the dignity of this high house. Furthermore, I would like to remind the Serbian public that Mrs Pesic, Natasa Kandic, and similar step forward in the coming days. What's this about? They're trying to provoke us Serbs, the ordinary Serbian people, to do something aggressive after what they say, so that they can point their finger at themselves as victims and at us as executioners. Another remark, in fact, is the only right, a stronger objection to Mrs Vesna Pesic's address. Especially in her speech, it bothered me when she said: and now in The Hague, the tribunal is doing the same. Yes, Mrs. Pesic, he's really doing it, he's fighting for the Serbian people. In that sentence I see what really bothered you. The fact that, like other Hague indictees or better said convicts, they were convicted as soon as they entered that courtroom, lay down and planted their necks with their executioners. He didn't turn himself in to lawyers. That's not his intention and he won't do it. Be assured they will defend the Serbian people. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u819	Thank you. Mr. Pelevic answered, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u820	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, yes, I was at war, I was a Serb volunteer and I am very, very proud of that period of my life. I went to war as a master of economic science, as director of a large company, as president of a sports alliance. I've never had any priors in my life before, no criminal, no criminal, no criminal, no traffic. I only fought to avoid Jasenovac and Jadovno again, because I came from Kosovo and Metohija and I knew well what was going on for the Serbian people in Croatia and BiH. I was shot twice because I was always in the front lines of the fight. At the time of the wound, I was a folk MP in this Serbian Parliament. So, I repeat, I am very, very proud of that period of my life. I am saying this for the sake of the Serbian public, because it is under my honor to pollute with someone who is a foreign mercenary, a traitor to the Serbian people, with someone who crowned his fight for democracy after October 5th by becoming an ambassador immediately. That person thus showed how much she fought for justice and democracy. She fought for herself like many others, honoring individuals who did not. So, I'm saying, I don't want to make out with one of those miserable people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u821	The word is Mr. Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I am, believe me, a little bit and surprised by the eruption of hatred expressed in the words of Vesna Pesic. You two things here in the SRS were free to throw us in the face and say that we are constantly promoting that we are the first patriots in the country and that there are no better patriots than us and that you want us to see what criteria these are. They're very simple, Mrs. Pesic, you probably know them well. The word patriotism means to love your country. If we are children of our country, and if the party is our country Serbia, what kind of children would we be if we loved a disabled mother, and you agree and you want to have a disabled Serbia. You have Serbia without Kosovo in order, and that is reality and that should be recognised, there is no need to talk about it. That's the first thing I have to tell you. The second thing you've said here is that it's our fault that everything bad happened to the Serbian people. What a blindness from an academic citizen! Do you at least know, if you want to talk about large historical truths, that there is a time period that has to pass, a time distance, that events from recent history can finally be ruled out. No, I don't. You're the judge. But what is motive and what is it that makes you judge? It's hate. Mrs. Pesic, if that were true, by some chance, would the Serbian radicals here be far more than you who are a marginal group that has been sneaking into this parliament year after year through the different coalitions that you join? This is the way you exist, and it is not that the Serb people will vote you and vote you as their legitimate representative whom they want to see in parliament. Please, you have offended Mr. Seselj here, our president, who cannot answer you. You have insulted a man here who intellectually far surpasses both you and your elite. You know what I'd like to do, and ask you, if possible, to finish this exhibition, read the record of Rastt Nemniæ who made it at the death of Simeon, his father. That's where you'll meet nice and recognize each other. You are the ones who co-operate with the enemies of the Serbian people, with those who killed our people, and that is what history will finally give you as your most important characteristic – the collaborationists with the enemies of the Serbian people, it is you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u823	Thank you. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u824	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2 point 23, which originally stands in the draft law - the Ministry of Diaspora. My amendment refers to a change of name: ''23. The Ministry of Relations with Serbs outside Serbia'. What is important, and this is also said in the light of this amendment, is that we need to bring this ministry in line with the provisions of the Constitution and other sublegal acts. Just to let you know that the rules on the work of the Assembly are foreseen, as one of the committees, the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia. We have a ministry here, we have an organisational committee there to connect with Serbs outside Serbia. Why this dualism? Why don't we roll it in one name? The other thing is far more important. This is a cosmetic, linguistic change, but it is far more important to determine the jurisdiction, rights and obligations of this ministry, which are very small, minor and do not have the contents that the ministry should have. The essence of this amendment is that, if it has already been defined as a ministry, the proposer is given legal authority. We do not currently have legislation to regulate the rights, obligations, competences of this ministry. So it is necessary to legalise the way, the conditions of integration, the improvement of the ties between Serbs in Serbia and Serbs abroad. On the other hand, we should also have an inauguration of the strategic policy of improving relations. We also do not currently have a strategy to improve relations with our brothers abroad, and we should have. In the draft law, the proposer says the ministry is doing the tasks of state administration relating to the help of citizens, the position of citizens of the Republic of Serbia living outside the Republic of Serbia. It is a painful wound to all our citizens abroad because there is no concern of this country for citizens of Serbs abroad. I'll start from the Republic of Croatia. The position of Serbs in Croatia is known to this assembly and we must say that it is very bad. Serbs who stayed in Croatia after the war lost their jobs. The entire Republika Srpska Krajina, apart from Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srem, was cleared by war actions of Storm and Flash, and about 150,000 Serbs went from Slavonia, Baranja and West Srem. peaceful reintegration. It was not a peaceful reintegration but rather a drive of Serbs from Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srem. Those who have managed to stay there, which are mostly nursing households, have suffered a number of shaggings, discrimination, drive from work, burning property, have been detained, arrested, etc. This country had no understanding for these Serbs. A similar situation is in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as in other countries in the former SFRY area. These jobs must be done by this ministry, along with the Foreign Ministry. But if we see the current structure of the Ministry of Diaspora, we see only twenty employees, without a clear strategy, without clear powers, rights, obligations, etc. What do we expect from them? Nothing. They're not doing anything. I claim that our diaspora is more made by municipalities, local self-government than this ministry does. According to that model, as the municipalities work, we need to form this ministry as well. It's out of function now. It is now and without normal financial resources that should be entered into certain activities. Neither this ministry has personnel, nor has labour instruments, nor has money to work with. It's a dead letter on paper now. Not just now, with this bill, but it's been since 2000, so we don't go back, it's a turning point, and we have to set ourselves up like that. What do we expect from this ministry? Nothing. We don't have the authority, we don't have the organization, we don't have the system, we don't have the strategic plans, we don't have the money. Dead letter on paper. What is important for our citizens abroad is that they are exposed to the enormous assimilation of their countries of origin, especially young people, especially educated people. How to prevent that assimilation? Only by intensive work of state authorities, from the Assembly, through the Government and state institutions. And we can't do that without the law. So, first law, strategy, money and work. The bill promoter didn't think about it. It is only important to satisfy the political appetites of individual leaders who will sit in this ministry and have the name of minister. They don't have real functions. It's a similar situation with other ministries, but let's limit ourselves to this ministry. What is devastating, which I must point out, is that, with the assimilation of our people, precisely because we have inaugurated one passivity towards our citizens abroad, we have made it impossible for our people who are old when they can improve, when and with the financial resources they have to help our country, they have no instruments and help because we, as a state, have not created an opportunity to place our skills, our profession and our money, to come and invest here. We don't have state institutions dealing with this. We only have some local self-government that thinks about it, determines locations for people who are returning from abroad. Not in family houses, not in apartments, but special plots are set aside for construction, that people can build, invest their money, hire and place that profession and knowledge they've acquired abroad. Can this ministry do it? He can't. Can local self-government do that in a more serious sense? He can't, he doesn't have the resources. So, in general, this ministry doesn't have its own meaning, nor its functionality, it doesn't have what it's supposed to have as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u825	Dear MPs, since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable it to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP in order to complete a vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that the conditions for confirming the mandate were met with a proposal for the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Miodrag Stoilovic, elected from the Electoral List for European Serbia -- Boris Tadic. On the basis of the RIK report and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Miodrag Stoilovic. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u826	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 2(1). Proposal for a law on ministries. The economic reasons were behind this amendment. For example, the comparative experience of successful world economies, such as Irish or Chinese, shows the importance of investing emigrants in the country of origin and their companies. It is believed to have been one of the causes of Irish and Chinese economic success. Economic data confirms it. About 70% of total foreign investment in China is investments by Chinese emigrants. Also, according to the World Bank, in 2007, Chinese citizens sent about 19 billion euros to their country. Even in the second largest economy in the EU, France, an inflow of nine billion euros was recorded in 2007 by French citizens abroad. It is in this sense that an amendment has been tabled regarding Article 2 of point 23, point 2, so within the area in which the situation of our emigrants is regulated. However, the amendment is also based on the fact that many of our companies are successfully operating in Eastern European countries, especially the Russian Federation. To prove the integrity of this amendment, the more accurate formation of a ministry that would support the performance of our companies in Eastern European markets is also a useful example that shows how our construction firms operate in Russia. For example, only in 2003, Serbian construction firms in Russia accomplished 150m-euro jobs. According to Russia's Trade Representation in our country, in the same year 2003, Serbian construction firms, according to the value of the works, were in front of competition from Eastern Europe. In 2002, an even better result was achieved, jobs worth 300m euros on the Russian market were achieved. The success of our companies is also in line with the long tradition in this area on the Russian market. In the last three decades, 50-60% of total construction works carried out worldwide by enterprises from the former Yugoslavia were located in the former Soviet Union, mainly in the Russian Federation. In 1990, the value of these works was billions of dollars. In this context, the ministry would take into account the experience and thinking of our businessmen doing business in Russia. For example, the following facts and recommendations would be analysed. As early as November 2001 in the Chamber of Commerce, the SRJ held a meeting of the Committee on Construction where it was concluded that Russian market performance needed: better organisation, bank support and more favourable regulations. So the new ministry that envisions this amendment would help our companies on the Russian market, at least as much as our main competitors in Russia do. For example, it would be considered that the largest competitors in the area, Turkish construction firms, are getting 30% stimulation for each contracted job in the Russian Federation. Of course, the ministry wouldn't help just one business branch. Basically, all activities would be subject to one goal, which is the recovery of our economy in general. All our companies are present on the eastern market, especially in Russian. They can contribute to the overall increase in exports, and this should be taken into account when ensuring the development of economic relations with abroad. In that sense, another reason for forming a new ministry is clear. The foreign trade deficit is the biggest problem of our economy. He's the result of low export. According to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, the deficit reached 3.4 billion euros in January-May 2008. This is a 26% increase compared to the same period in 2007. What causes such catastrophic results? In exports, our main foreign trade partners were not EU countries. On the contrary, Montenegro was in first place, exporting goods worth 352m euros. The second place was BiH, in which goods worth 349m euros were exported. Only in third place was one EU member, Italy, in which goods worth 337m euros were exported. How is this possible if our products are allegedly competitive on the EU market? How can we sell more goods on the BiH market than four million people, than on the Italian market of 60 million people? So common sense and economic data show us that, in economic terms, the dogma on the EU is wrong. That is why a new economic strategy should be considered. That is also the main purpose of this amendment. The new strategy should be based on an external trade agreement with the Russian Federation, more specifically, on developing economic relations with the Russian Federation. Of course, when our economic situation is viewed outside the context and only its parts are analysed, a counterargument can be made. Currently, around 50% of Serbia's foreign trade exchange is being achieved in trade with EU countries. But it should be pointed out again, precisely that fact is the cause of a record foreign trade deficit. In addition, Serbia's National Strategy for EU Accession of 2005 of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and then the Government of the Republic of Serbia's Office for Association reads: "The greatest burden on Serbia's economy is a high external trade deficit". It is then recognised in this document: "The highest percentage of the trade deficit is generated in exchange with the EU, over 50%". It's more than clear, all you have to do is think and analyze this data, with no scarcity. On the other hand, there is an economic alternative. Economic expert from the Institute of Market Research Sasa Djordovic says that the exchange with Russia could make as much as 25% of the total exchange, if we succeed in exporting to that country to equate with imports. The Institute of Market Research also states that in the case of Russia, only one country, and in the case of the EU, the collection of 27 countries. It is therefore indicated that it is not about correct comparisons and that the alleged argument on the necessity of the Brussels road, which is based on the fact that 50% of foreign trade is taking place with the EU, has been deplaced. In this context, even in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, it is acknowledged that one way to reduce the deficit is to use the free trade agreement with the Russian Federation. That it is necessary to form a new ministry, shows statistics, and it is true. The situation for our economy is even worse, given the information recently published by the Republic Statistics Office. In the first five months of this year, our economy has managed to export goods worth only 2.9 billion euros. It is certainly small if compared to 6.4 billion euros in imports in the same period. But that's even less if we take into account the fact that, according to the Republic Bureau of Statistics, our allegedly biggest exporter was an American firm, U.S.A. S. Steel's. Ladies and gentlemen, when deciding on this amendment, it is necessary to keep in mind and the current real situation in the EU. I am not just referring to the political and legal collapse of the Lisbon Treaty, more specifically, the poorly disguised EU Constitution after the referendum in Ireland. Otherwise, behind this failure was the fact that in 2009, for the first time in many years, more people will leave Ireland than they will move to the country. In fact, the difference is a huge 200,000 people and is due to the collapse on the real estate market. So much for EU prosperity in the coming period. However, the assessment of the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies should also be taken into account. In this year, an estimated reduction in direct investment is expected in the countries of Eastern and Central Europe. The inflow of investment in ten new EU members should be a tenth lower than in 2007. The main cause of the fall of foreign direct investment is the global financial market crisis that has hit countries from a rich part of the EU. The study also points to market saturation in the new EU member states, resulting in the completion of the sale of businesses in these countries. The study also said that investments in six Balkan states are likely to decrease by 17% on an annual basis. So also developments in the global market, the rise in oil prices, the economic perspective within the EU, as well as the expected decline in the level of investment in the Balkans, demonstrates the justification of this amendment. When we take all this information into account, the conclusion is made -- the serious state always has an alternative strategy. This strategy adapts to changing reality. She's supposed to respect a reality that's different today than in the '90s. Russia is once again a major economic power. Many problems in economic and legal terms are facing the EU. That's why a new ministry needs to be formed. The ministry should also be formed because of the economic science and experience of new EU members from Eastern Europe. The experience was best defined by the creator of Slovenia's economic success, former Minister Dr. Jože Mecinger. He said: It is known that Slovenia will have to pay more in the EU than it will get from the beginning. It's a reality. In addition, the EU is built on selfish interests. So that's reality, and the rest are phrases. Keep that in mind when you vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u827	Thank you, Mr. Mirovic. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the Verse of Radet. The proposer's representative and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u828	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Verica Radeta has submitted an amendment saying in Article 3 after saying "nationals and legal persons abroad" add the words "and especially the citizens of the Republic of Serbia imprisoned in The Hague casamat". Unfortunately, we have a sad practice when it comes to our country and when it comes to our citizens who are trapped in the Hague casamat. Those who set out to break the SRJ, primarily the US and the EU, committed the most serious crime, a crime against peace, which does not go out of date. They were followed by all those forces that were pre-organised in Yugoslavia. Nothing happened by accident. The process began first in Slovenia, where Slovenian leadership, territorial defence, police, committed the first war crime in then-SFRJ, where soldiers, who were armed but without ammunition, were practically shot. So began the collapse and secession of SFRY. They were followed by Croatia, Franjo Tudjman. All the Ustasha forces that existed in the world returned to Croatia and set off, just as they did in 1941, with a giant Serb. Although at the time everything was tried to at least BiH, or already elected Muslim leader, in any way agreed not to go the same way, it was even given and proposed to be the first president of the presidency and thus allowed Muslims in the former SFRY to be all in one country, unfortunately, under the pressure of America, and they went to civil war. You know how and how it happened, to end with the bombing in 1999, without a UN Security Council decision, with a criminal bombing that lasted 78 days, and after that, the KIM occupation, and now, here, and an attempt to take away our KIM completely. Now all these crimes they've committed have to be justified in some way. In a way that is most difficult - the victim should be found guilty, and all those who have defended national and state interests should be found guilty, convicted and thus transferred to one who fought for state and national interests, for fundamental rights, the right to freedom. Therefore, in the Hague case, complete political, military and police leadership and Republika Srpska, Serbia, is fortunately not Republika Srpska (yet they have not caught Ratko Mladic and will not catch him, nor will Karadzic). You had a chance yesterday in one newspaper to read the conversation between Wesley Clark and Javier Solana, where Wesley Clark is saying that all those who resisted America must respond. They were all also arrested, some kidnapped, like Slobodan Milosevic, on Vidovdan, and delivered to The Hague tribunal, and then, who by force, all those sought by The Hague tribunal, they were there and imprisoned. Em unjustly trapped in a Hague casamat, em suffers another sentence, from their own state. Our country not only did it not do what would be perfectly logical, in our interest, to try to help all those people in the Hague case, because you were the ones who claimed to go there to prove their innocence there. We know best how this is possible, in the case of Dr Vojislav Seselj. When it comes to the state of Serbia, not only is it not doing anything on its defence to help, but it is doing everything to make it difficult for the defence and to disable it, and thus also fulfils the UN tribunal's tasks, i.e. the prosecutor's office. Unlike the demands delivered by the D.A., our country is extremely serviceable. Everything she's asked for, absolutely all the data, they've extradited and there's no dilemma. For what it takes to defend, it takes a long way, process, writing, request, and then giving the wrong documents to do as much as possible. If there were no truly exceptional wishes and will of the team for the defence of Vojislav Seselj, as far as Serbia is concerned, nothing could be done. This is one of the reasons why we asked to add -- especially for Serbs trapped in The Hague, because we are sure that they are doing everything to help the state of Serbia, and this is best shown by Dr Vojislav Seselj. All of you follow, I am convinced, to a large extent, the trial of Dr Vojislav Seselj and if there is one single fact that shows how much instrument it is, but in this case completely impossible to perform its role, it is Dr Vojislav Seselj. Absolutely no single witness, or expert, as they call them, has been able to prove a single word, not any of the facts of that enormous indictment against Vojislav Seselj. That's why we think the state would have to do it, and it can do it, to make their lives easier. I don't mean here right now on Dr Vojislav Seselj, I mean the rest of the UN tribunal indictees, especially when it comes to their families. You often, when you propose some laws here, among other things, highlight positive examples of Croatia, Slovenia and some other countries. Interestingly, in this case you did not find it appropriate to see some positive ones, I find it difficult to say it, but it is true, it is a really positive example when it comes to Croatia. They rented a house to which members of families accused before The Hague tribunal come. They've got the best lawyers at their disposal. The state is funding their defense, financing their families. Croatia, unlike you, is aware (although I think you are aware, but on orders you are not doing so) that any charge which will support the fact that Croatia has carried out the greatest ethnic cleansing and genocide, as it has done in two actions in 1995, in the actions "Blash" and "Storm", is trying in every way possible to help its accused to either receive less punishment or not to condemn them by those points of the indictment. And what have you done, as a state, to help the highest political officials in politics, the military, the police, besides busting them in Serbia, arresting them and delivering them to The Hague? You should do this for yourself, because someone will come after you who will ask that question in Serbia. The fact that you are political opponents with the people in The Hague does not give you the right to harm Serbia's interests and that by not doing anything to put Serbia at risk, because our people are unable to have adequate defence, especially because they are the prey of lawyers who agree with the Secretariat and the prosecution only one more link that allows these people to be judged in a simple and quick manner, to be judged in order to get the job done. This is your chance to do something to reduce the burden behind us for generations that they can carry. We also suggested here, in the same article, that after the word "tracking" the word "action" be deleted. He says, "Following the work of foreign funds of public information." I don't understand how anyone could have written "actuality tracking." I guess "monitoring foreign means of public information." Their actions I understand, but that is not necessary and cannot be done by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, since you have completely cleared their services. It is true that the largest number of journalists are engaged, among other things, in spying, to do so, all the time, with the help of journalistic legislation. But it shouldn't be done by the State Department. That should be done properly by our services, but you, unfortunately, have destroyed it. You have also reduced the military and police security services to ordinary bureaus serving parties whose jurisdiction, i.e. whose people are in charge, because of political opponents, to see you open an affair, to bribe, bribe, etc., and you are not interested in the state's defence work at all. Because you have accepted that the Americans defend you and what they have from this service is practically serving the interests of some other states, not serving the interests of Serbia. That's why I suggest that you vote in voting day for this amendment to the Verse of Radete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u829	The People's MP, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, reported on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u830	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you can either be done to you or most often interpret that when the SRS intervenes with the amendment and mentions the UN tribunal or when we talk about it at all, we are talking about it first because of our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj. Of course, that's the reason, but it's not the only reason. I'll remind you, from the moment the court was established, we pleaded against that court by treating it as illegal. From the moment of the handover of the president of the state, something that is truly embarrassing and that probably no state has ever done except ours, we have condemned this procedure. All the arrests that were made in the meantime, guesses and speculations, blackmailing some people into the tribunal, we also condemned them, believing that we could not find justice before that court. But with circumstances, like this or something, some people have found themselves there. One honorable mission is Dr. Vojislav Seselj, who drew it for himself as a political idea. He believes it is his exceptional historic chance to defend Serbian national interests. I am convinced that one day you will tell your grandchildren how you had the opportunity to scratch on that man, to sit next to him, to listen to him, to live in a time when he lived too because he is a man who is truly a tall intellectual. Here, and Mrs. Pesic boasted that she knew him back in the '80s, sat with him. But unfortunately, all these tall intellectuals have the ability to either work and use all their intelligence for something good and in the interest of their country and their people or to go astray and work for dollars. Everyone has the right to choose and, as our people would say, the turkeys are always worse than the Turks. Those who went astray and went astray have the right to be angry and envy those who chose the right path. Absolutely in accordance with our Constitution, and this is Article 13, where we undertake to protect the rights and interests of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens and legal persons abroad, we potential here and those of our citizens in The Hague tribunal. They really need help, especially diplomatic and consular offices. Not so much that they personally need it, but that we, as a state, need to help them deal with such an institution. That's one machine. One man out there alone can't do anything unless his country is behind him. I can't figure out why we can't stand behind these people, why we can't help them, why we here in advance condemn them guilty, that they did something they didn't do. And here, today you have this liberating verdict by Nasera Oric, where Judge Shomburg stressed that during the trial it was unquestionably found that crimes against Serbs were committed in two detentions in Srebrenica between September 1992 and March 1993. However, proving that crimes have happened is not enough for a specific person to be convicted of these crimes -- the judge said, noting that there was no evidence beyond reasonable doubt that Oric's guilt would be found. On the basis of this decision and the reasoning of Judge Shomburg, I can really expect that, at the most recent time, the Susseli trial of Dr Vojislav will be terminated and the man will be released. Because between what he said and what happened on the battlefield, there is really no connection. I believe that the amendment is fully in place and that, as part of the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... (growling in the O.R.)... Don't mention so much time, please, so give us a heads-up on Mrs. Komic once she starts explaining so much what and how to respond to the advertising of the Rules of Procedure, when she takes five minutes to explain what she needs to say to us, as if we're idiots here. Listen to something smart sometimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u831	Thank you, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Excuse me, Mrs. Banovic, your amendment is now up. Mr Aleksandar Martinovic, a member of the People's Parliament, came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u832	Dear Miss Jovanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I answered on the basis of an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and regarding yesterday's decision of the Legislative Committee to amend Mrs Verice Radete to Article 3. Proposal for a law on ministries... Do not be alarmed, hear what the messengers say. I know you're bored in the National Assembly, but believe me, this is what we're talking about and how it matters. So yesterday, the Legislative Committee made a decision that Mrs Verice Radete's amendment is allegedly not legally possible because it does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not mention at all the institution spoken of by the amendment of Ms Verica Radeta. In doing so, when yesterday the president of the Legislative Committee interpreted why the amendment did not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, he failed to guess the official name of the institution that Mrs Radeta rightly called 'The Hague Card'. The official name of the institution, as it is called itself, is – the International Tribunal for criminal prosecution of persons responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed at the premises of the former SFRY since 1991. That's what she calls herself. In short, in Serbian, there is no better term for the institution with the name "Haski Kasamat". In the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, this institution is not mentioned at all and the amendment is absolutely legal and is not contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The task of the Legislative Committee is merely to say whether the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution or not. The amendment is in line with the Constitution because there are no norms in the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to which this amendment is against. Yesterday we heard from DS representatives at a session of the Legislative Committee that the amendment should be rejected because it allegedly contains some offensive expressions. That's absolutely not true. There's nothing offensive about the word "casamat." The word "casamat" is a word that reflects in the best possible way what the institution really is – one big prison, one big torture site and, unfortunately, one big loss, because in the Hague case many Serbs lost their heads, died or were killed under very suspicious circumstances. Indeed, Mrs. Radeta couldn't find a better term for this institution than the word "Haski Kasamat". Yesterday, at the session of the Legislative Committee, I drew attention to one fact. The official way of concentration camps in the territory of the independent state of Croatia, as Pavelic's government called them, was "gathering" and "work" camps. It's a pretty innocent and harmless name. Behind that name were the most monstrous mass destruction camps. No one at home... Seems like the most important time for you. Well, your time is slowly running out, don't worry. So the official name was "gathering" and "work" camps. It did not occur to anyone in postwar Yugoslavia, when he wrote criminal and legal regulations, to use the official, official Ustasha dictionary and to say "gathering and labor camps" for these camps, but rather to use those names that are, in fact, the most impoverished – "concentration camps" and "mass destruction camps". Therefore, the amendment should also be adopted and the decision of the Legislative Committee, which was made yesterday, was not made in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the decision is, in fact, against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask the President of the Legislative Committee to inform the MPs - what is the amendment to the contrary to the Constitution and why is this amendment not to be accepted? We in the SRS believe that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and we call on all MPs who have any national and patriotic consciousness, who have the awareness that, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is obliged to protect all its citizens no matter where they are, to vote in favour of Mrs Verice Radete's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u833	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. After you answered and quoted an article. 225. The Rules of Procedure, as I understand it, under Rule 1, the National Assembly is obliged to give you notice in order to be able to function as a MP, so I ask the Service to inform you about this issue of yours and to give you the authentic meaning of the word that is disputed in the amendment proposed by the Belief Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u834	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I ask the question and ask for an answer. Since two months ago, the public was partially informed that the Cypriot terrorists were the ones who kidnapped and captured our citizens who were taking them to Albania and keeping them in the so-called. To the flowering camps, that a large number of these citizens of Serbs with KIM were tired, liquidated and that internal organs, heart, kidneys, livers were transplanted in Ankara in about 35 cases, and in other places, cities and states, that we do not speak, and that, among other things, Sheik Bahrain had installed the Serbian heart by paying in Ankara, according to the information I received, several million dollars, I am asking the competent prosecutor for organised crime, the special prosecutor for war crimes, the Ministry of Justice, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to give me answers, so that the Serbian citizens could know the truth. On the other hand, the security service, the former Ubiquitous, the current BIA, the counterintelligence service of the SRJ Army and the Serbian Army, should have information on this, should be initiated by appropriate criminal proceedings and investigations, as this is a serious crime. More than 3,000 Serbs were kidnapped, killed, taken to Albania to camps, many families do not know what happened to their loved ones today. Therefore, I ask the answer to the question: Will the D.A.'s office, which under the Code of Criminal Procedure and other regulations be obliged to initiate a criminal procedure, because when only a voice reaches the prosecutor's office that is prosecuted under official duty, he has to initiate the proceedings, so to speak? In a particular case, an extensive investigation must be launched and prosecutors should be told whether they have knowledge or not, whether they have begun the investigation or not? If they're not, and they have knowledge, why don't they launch that investigation? Does someone stop and prevent, does the US, English and German ambassadors in Serbia engage to keep it from being discovered and found out? The SRS is asking for it to be illuminated and revealed. No more silence, no more concealment, this must be brought to life during the process and investigation that must be launched against the Cypriot criminals and terrorists in its own country, because Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u835	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Banovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u836	Dear colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law, which bears the title: Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It describes the work cycle and lists all those affairs of the state administration carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the tenth row, the member writes that the foreign ministry is preparing the participation of representatives of the Republic of Serbia at international conferences or negotiations to conclude international contracts. With this amendment, I propose that after the words "International Contracts", the words are added: "having regard to the preservation of Serbia's territorial integrity". The proposed amendment stems from the constitutional obligation to safeguard the territorial integrity of the state, as well as from resolutions adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Given the fact that the illegal declaration of independence by the interim Kosovo institutions has recognised a number of states, it is necessary to ensure that all bilateral and multilateral agreements concluded with the states and international organisations of Kosovo and Metohija are treated as an integral part of Serbia. It is also necessary to prepare our representatives specifically for a diplomatic response in possible situations where we could meet with attempts to represent the representatives of Kosovo's provisional institutions as allies from a sovereign state. Some will say that this amendment is not necessary and that it is understood. That is, it implies that the government, a large coalition of all-national reconciliation, will certainly fight to preserve Serbia's territorial integrity. However, after the experience we have from the pre-election campaign and the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement for propaganda purposes and in the weather, nothing is anymore understood. I therefore believe that this law should also stress that no one should sign any paper that directly or indirectly threatens the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia because none of us know how much ink there is left in that famous pen of Bozidar Djelic and what it will sign in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u837	Anyone else want a word by amendment? Here you are, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u838	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in addition to the fact that this bill is absolutely nakaradamous and that it is necessary for you to serve this government only to stamp out, opposition MPs are trying to fix it to you at least as much as you can, as much as you can, to apply it without embarrassing the country to the end. National MP Mrs. Donka has tabled an amendment to Article 3 and asks that in part of the text relating to the Foreign Ministry after the words "or negotiations for the conclusion of international contracts" she says "having regard to the preservation of Serbia's territorial integrity. "Why is this amendment important? In the past, when we had some foreign ministers who had signed wherever they arrived and whatever they arrived, only if they had been pushed under the nose by NATO, the EU, the United States, we came to the situation that after that the National Assembly could discuss for months the signing of a foreign minister on an agreement with NATO that allowed them to do so, and since it was not put out of force and today allows, in an unlimited number, absolutely uncontrollable to pass through the lines, rivers, roads, highways through the Republic of Serbia, to carry no one for anything, to carry whatever weapons they wanted, to engage from neighbouring countries, from countries of surroundings, from countries that fall apart, the auxiliary staff and that it had the right to carry arms, so we could have the Us Us Us Us Us Us Us Us Us Us Us Usins, who were in the "Bless" and "The Storms" and "The Storms" have destroyed over 250,000, which we could not have destroyed all the Serbians, and the Serbs, which were left in this war. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the Democrats (the opposition's ambassadors, SRS MPs, they know very well) that the minister in the Macedonian government has been killed by an angry and unscrupulous run over his car in the middle of the street. The one who did this is in America, not subject to the responsibility of the law of the state in which the crime was committed or whose minister died. That is exactly the kind of signatures that are put on these contracts, and as far as I can see, this government will not be immune to the signing of similar contracts, the integrity of the Serbian state is ultimately being undermined. Ladies and gentlemen of the People, this amendment should be accepted because it will at least limit you a little bit in its boast when soon, if you soon form a government, you begin to insinuate. At least some kind of restriction will remain in this law and will not allow you to end your free hand. Because when your hands are freed, then Serbia is tied up, and it's fat.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u839	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. National MP Zeljko Tomic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u840	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, like all MPs who have submitted the amendments, and I am a little surprised why this amendment has not been accepted, for a very simple reason. If you read the text carefully, where it says that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is doing, and now taxfully states what, among other things,'monitoring international relations and bilateral co-operation with other countries and their development', my amendment reads, I will remind - then a new part is added which reads: 'as well as the monitoring and development of multilateral co-operation within international institutions and organisations'. If you already specify bilateral relations, it is perfectly normal to specify both multilateral relations. What does that mean exactly? This means co-operation with the UN, the OSCE, is about the process of co-operation between Southeast Europe, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, etc. If you already specify bilateral relations, you must also specify these others, and of course, when we mention the UN, there is a primate struggle for the integrity and sovereignty of our country throughout the territory, it means a real diplomatic struggle for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija. If you already mention one kind of co-operation with other countries and organisations, you must also mention the other, which also exists everywhere in the entire political and civilised world. In my opinion, this amendment is really undeniable, not because we have submitted it from the DSS-NS, but because it is simply very understandable and includes what every country has in its operation through its foreign affairs ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u841	I thank my colleague, Tomic. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenović. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u842	Dear Presidency, dear colleagues, I am a PUPS MP and I have made an amendment to Article 4. It's a bill of law. Before I move on to the explanation of this amendment, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with the behaviour of some colleagues these days compared to PUPS. First, some heavy insults, misbehaving, that PUPS is the path to Serbia's collapse. I ask the question - what should pensioners do to reverse the situation and not be the way to Serbia's collapse? I'd like to hear it from those who've repeated it several times. On the other hand, we also had the opportunity to hear one high-ranking official, who says pensioners are the problem of Krkobic, not Serbia. Now I ask you again, dear colleagues, is it possible to do so? Do pensioners have to be a single party leader's problem or should they be the country's problem? Instead of commending us for finding the strength to try to protect this category of our citizens going into the sun, we get criticism. I can see why. Because so far we have served only as a voting machine and no one has truly fought for us. I'm not saying we're going to fight for all our rights, but I'm telling our pensioners that we're going to do everything we can to improve the pensioner's condition. To what extent - I believe it will depend on both the position and the opposition. I assure you that no law, at least as far as PUPS is concerned, will be supported unless there is at least a slight shift towards the better, regardless of whether it refers to pensioners or any citizen of Serbia who is socially at risk. Let me just have a few more words to say about the amendment. My proposal was to return social security and protection of military pensioners from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to the Ministry of Defence. Why did I suggest that? I found the foothold in the Yugoslav Army Act. Article 190. The Law on the Serbian Army reads: "War insurance companies that are in force until the day of entry into force of this law", and I am talking about the law that entered into force on 1 January 2008, "provided social security rights continue to apply those rights according to the law under which they were implemented". Article 197 paragraph 2 reads: ''Until the adoption of regulations on military obligations, social, health and pension and disability insurance of professional military personnel remain in force of the following provisions of the Law on the Military of Yugoslavia:... Chapter XV - "Health insurance" (Art. 211 to 239), Chapter XVI - "Pension and invalidity insurance" (Art. 240 to 260 and 262 to 278)... ''It is clear to us why it was tried in this way to put military pensioners in a stalemate position, that no one cares about them anymore. If I confront these two laws, the Military Act and the Labour Act, I would like the Legislative Committee to answer my question – who is responsible for military insurance and military pensioners? This year's practice has already shown that they're nobody's. Practically, both are advertised unauthorized when it comes to obtaining the rights of military pensioners. And when it comes to certain political points, then they try to solve certain problems, starting with an increase in pensions, etc. I've got to name Article 193. Serbia's Military Law, which is required by the government to settle the debt of military pensioners within three months, amounting to about three and a half billion dinars, and today it has grown, with interest and court costs, to about eight billion dinars. Does this state need, because it does not respect its own regulations and laws, unnecessaryly imposes costs on itself? It would be normal for him to fulfill his obligation to the citizens according to the applicable regulations and give them what follows them. I want to draw attention to a few more things. Today there are about 20,000 lawsuits filed by military pensioners. The courts don't handle it mostly, it's a bunch, and we don't know when it's going to work out. In December, the defence minister ordered the Military Pension Fund to make new solutions for military pensioners under the rights acquired under the 2004-2005 Retirement and Pensions Regulation. So far, there are about 9,000 objections because these solutions have not been made properly. Of those 9,000 solutions, probably half of them will have to go to court. If we have all this in mind, then I ask the question: is it correct for the Ministry of Defence to get rid of military pensioners and all the problems of military pensioners to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy that neither drank nor ate? And otherwise, the pensioners are in a difficult situation, and you've all said that during the promotions, but I have to give an extraordinary example, which I unfortunately have no words for, and I believe everyone will agree. I received a letter from a group of 65 military pensioners who have not received a pension or been entitled to health care since September 2007. It is about pensioners who are citizens of this country, who live in Serbia but who are retired in Montenegro. The Montenegrin brothers forced the Serbs out and did not give them pensions, and this country will not accept its citizens and give them what they have under the law. This group of citizens addressed the defence minister, the National Office, the Commission for Presentations and Appeals, the Prime Minister, the Citizens' Protector, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, the Deputy Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, and so far there is no solution. I'm just going to make one example out of this so I don't read it all. Among these pensioners are retired Colonel Djordje Milutinović, who lives in Novi Sad, has the number and address, he is gravely ill, has prostate cancer, leukemia and a number of severe diseases, and has no health care or money to pay for treatment. The man was a military attaché in 1971 in Belgium, graduated from military school in the United States - and what did he expect? - to quietly die in his apartment. I would like to appeal to the Serbian Military Pensioners' Association to open a jury account and to all pensioners to make voluntary contributions to ensure the normal lives of these 65 pensioners. Let me get this straight. Since the amendment that I have submitted is legally possible, and given the problem I have raised, I suggest that it be accepted and in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence. The moment a new pension system law is passed and the system is resolved in general, then it will be placed where it should be placed and where the decision is made to be. Thank you very much and pleasantly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u843	Thank you. Ambassador Bozidar Delic submitted to the 4th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Delic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u844	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of the day, I would like to say that I support this initiative, which Mr Arsenijević made in the previous amendment. It was, by the way, the opinion and the SRS proposal that social and pension insurance should be returned to where it was and because the military pensioners are now, as the current Chief of Staff said, turned into a train without a timetable, or into a wagon to be decommissioned, so they were pushed onto a blind track. Their pensions are in the military budget, but no one decides on them anymore, so military pensioners would have to beg (in the previous government it was Mr Ljajic, in the new government we do not know who it will be). They're one completely forgotten category. Nobody decides to raise those pensions and they're the only ones who haven't even had a raise so far. Now let me say something about my amendment, amendment to Article 4. It's got two attitudes in it. The first position is about the security of the state border. The state border, by the end of last year, has crossed over to the interior ministry's jurisdiction. However, even in European countries, even in these European Union countries, there is a mixed system of security of the state border. In areas where border crossings are easy for security, it's done by the Ministry of the Interior, or the police. On the parts where the security of the state border is difficult, it's the military. But, gentlemen, I'm still saying that for those on the right, and the declareers and the ones on the left, we haven't given up Kosovo and Metohija. That's why this should be in the draft ministry law. It is no problem that the same jobs are done by the two ministries because the competent ministry, which will supervise, can be the one that primarily performs certain tasks. Today, the Serbian Army is protecting the administrative line. There are also a lot of normative problems because the military simply does not have the possibility to attach itself to some law when regulating status and other issues. That is why it was necessary to continue, and in this proposal to Article 4, this provision also stands. Another provision is very important. It is a matter of having the assets of the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence and preparing a military-terrorist organisation. Military property, gentlemen, is very endangered. Every institution has its own property, like the Railways. It's the only military that has no property and whose property anyone can practically decide, and lately the tycoons decide the most. For this pay phone, I've brought together a fact in the past about the barracks in Alexinac. Some of our tycoons were passing the highway, saw that the barracks were in a good place, and, simply, through the powers of this last government, asked the army to move out of Alexinco, where it has traditionally been, not for years, for decades, but can already be said for centuries. This barracks has been evicted in a month, and never since 2000 in any list of assets that are not needed for the functioning of the Army, this barracks has not been located. We had the freshest example in Kragujevac. A minister, who today is the deputy president of our party and the head of our parliamentary group particularly here, has appeared in Kragujevac, made an offer to Fiat and says: you have a place to be. And immediately offered military property. So no one in the Army is asking. So it should be given to Fiat. There were no talks with military gentlemen, the ministry, with pensioners, there were no words about 15,500 people, almost half of the pensioners who failed to resolve their housing issue. Simply, this barracks is offered, which is located in a very attractive place in Kragujevac. In many cities, such as Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis are still attractive to the only locations the military has, usually located in some good places. That's why, gentlemen, it would be important for this amendment to enter the bill, so that the military can protect its property. There's one more thing I wanted to say, and there's no sign of this bill and of Article 4 when it comes to the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence. Gentlemen, this proposal also discusses strategic documents. At the end of last year, we adopted the Law on Defence and the Law on the Army, and they said that the strategic documents, the defence strategy, would be adopted within a year. I am counting, therefore, that November or December of this year we should discuss these documents. However, the military, the chief of staff, the defence ministers (previously) did not wait for the documents, but without an estimate, at their own discretion, did an amateur and volunteer reduction of the military. The worst, not asking this parliament, without asking the citizens of Serbia, was the complete 'natoisation' of the military. Serbian citizens, in various polls, have declared 75% that our country should never join NATO, but today you have that Serbia's military officers are being sent to America, as if we can't teach our officers how to behave here. In our army today, there is something that is unimaginable, something that is completely contrary to the spirit of our people and the spirit of our army. In our army will first appear the grill. Gentlemen, most of you have been served by the army and you have the most beautiful memories of both your officers and your officers. Soldiers who will be in Serbia's army in the future will almost not be able to see their officers. In all units, let's say in the company, it's a unit of 150 people, the first officer will be appointed. The officer will only contact the first officer who will be required to pass the order to the other officers and the soldiers. Is that in line with the Serbian military tradition and with the Serb military spirit? It's something completely American, completely loaded, and it shouldn't go past the Assembly. Chief of Staff runs a completely independent foreign policy, he doesn't deal with the military. What he's doing, his contacts, it's this country's foreign policy. But I guess this country's foreign policy is in charge of this assembly, the government and the foreign ministry. The Chief of Staff has a small role in it, but it cannot be an independent factor, to do what he wants, to contact whoever he wants, and to direct our army, our defence, to NATO together with the Secretary of Defense. This is not just the right side's opinion, as Mr Nikolic and Mr Todorovic just said. And our people think we should never be a NATO member and we won't be. But that's why I have to, and that's why I'm saying it from this pay phone, when that Department of Defense is already formed, that gentlemen take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u845	Thank you. Mr. Todorovic wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I apologize, I use the time of our amendment, but on the discussion of the previous speaker, regarding his amendment to transfer military insurance to the Ministry of Defense and the claim that PUPS will stand up for pensioners. It is normal that it is a legitimate right and that no one wills or has any desire to deny anyone the right to fight for their own political goals and there is no problem. But to draw attention to the fact that, particularly within the framework of its programme, the SRS has advocated the rights of all Serbian citizens and, among other things, the rights of pensioners, because it is one of the most endangered categories of our population. We are one of the few parties who, in the last term, advocated that pensions should be coordinated, in line with the country's economic strength, until the time that pensions are 70% of the average personal income and always stand for it until it is set. I'm asking you a question. Also in the previous term, only the SRS was against attaching one of the country's healthiest funds, the Social and Pension Insurance Fund, which has been independent since 1945. It's the healthiest fund in this country. What can I tell you when there is a relationship between those who work and those who are pensioners 6-1. So, six of them work to support one. And in this sick fund, the state fund, as we have called it, we, who have been on our own, have a relationship -- six of them work, and five are pensioners. Since this is healthy, since there's money there, they've attached it to this sick one so that the fund, or that money, can be used. In particular, Mr. Jovan Krkobbic, who has been, among other things, the director of the fund, should know that for many years. I remember, completely against the law at the time, I couldn't register the car unless I brought in my pension and social security. That's what they're doing right now, and now it's state policy, and now you can't exercise any rights unless you have confirmation that you paid social and pension. We will advocate the rights of all our citizens, of all our categories, to come into a situation that, as a state, we will provide them with the life of a worthy man. To do that, first of all, we need to get the government to work in a completely different way, to start production. Among other things, it was one of the mottos of our election campaign - economic and social recovery. We can declare ourselves here, I don't know what, it's a waste if there's no funds, if there's no money in the funds that would make it possible. The main way to make this possible is to start production. But how do you start production when eight years they're destroying the state? They sold everything alive. There are few public enterprises left, and when they're done with it, they'll be where, my dear. They're going to the Sea and other islands, and we're going to stay here and complain and regret that we gave them the opportunity to destroy our country. You who decide and give them that chance, think about whether it is legitimate to stand up for pensioners' rights and to support those who have done everything to destroy them, to bring them to the brink of existence. How many examples do you have that the pensioners died of hunger? They simply had no other options, but ended with hunger. You think hard. You are now responsible, because you represent that part of the citizens, that category of citizens. Now that's the basic question: will these start production? How do you mean in a different way to secure pensions – if there is no employment, job creation, if there is no separation? How do you think it can be done if you have a country that has reached a 40 billion-euro foreign trade deficit in these eight years? It is clear to every layman what it means – that we have imported goods for 40 billion euros. So we weren't producing, we were importing and paying for that stuff. That's why it's supposed to be a stable dinar to fund an import lobby instead of doing everything we can to open jobs. That's the basic thing to think about now, because after this, it won't be possible to find an excuse for the steps you're taking and to explain to those you say you represent why you did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u847	Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u848	If I'm not clear, let me explain. I didn't want to challenge anyone's right, on the contrary, I'm glad that both the position and the opposition will do everything and fight for the rights of the pensioner. I'm only against offensive content instead of expressing gratitude that we've had the strength to organize and try to protect the pensioner's sunflower. As for the question of where the funds come from, we know, we're not so stupid and silly, that money doesn't give birth to branches. That is why there is a Government, we hope – the Socially Responsible Government, and will find a solution. We're convinced there's money, and how, just let at least a bankruptcy mob be eliminated without talking about other things. I assure you that, regardless of the coalition, as far as the United Pensioners' Party is concerned, no one will have any blancuous support. We'll fight so hard. Every law must have at least a slight shift towards improvement, not as laws have been passed so far, which have only gone to the detriment of our citizens, especially pensioners, but to God and other citizens, and have not even respected the existing laws that were in force. From there, I hope and believe in it, but time will show that we are really going to fight and get the desired result.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u849	Mr. Todorovic has a replica. Here you go. I'm sorry, you have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u850	I answered after the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no doubt of your good intentions, but may I remind you that the journey to hell is paved by good intentions. What you're up to here is one question: Who? Is it with Mladjan Dinkic that you think you have these good intentions? Please don't. Take ten of your colleagues. You're laughing now, I understand, but come on, ask ten pensioners from your environment, tell them: we have intentions with Dinkic to do something to fix your position, and see what they tell you. Oh, come on, don't. There's nothing to do. I wish you success, don't doubt that in any way we want you to experience failure, but the legality is that you can't do anything with those who have passed the Labour Act, which strictly fulfil all the orders of the World Bank, the IMF... Well, those institutions destroyed the globe, all those over whom they have authority, not Serbia and the people of Serbia. There is none of this business, but I remind you of the other one, who plantes pumpkins with Dinkic, and turns their heads on him.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u851	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Ognjen Mihajlovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u852	Dear Sir, as the Honorable General Delic has said, this thing has been absorbed since last year. At that time, the government proved to us, unfortunately, that there is still a mobile servile mentality in Serbia, which is the rest of one Ottoman thinking of Oriental mentality. In fact, the government had already done what the EU asked of it. She has removed our army from our borders. We are now attending, within the framework of this Article 5, concerning the Ministry of the Interior, the finalisation of one job, which has been required and unnecessarily carried out by the current yellow authority. In fact, this is a materialization of what I called Oriental mentality, but it does not exist only in our material practical world. She's also in that symbolic and slightly irrational world. Boris Tadic wanted to organise his celebration for tomorrow, the government's promotion. Unfortunately, it is a day that is a great national holiday in the United States, the day of their independence, the day they declared secession, a long time ago in 1776 from the British crown. Their independence day was supposed to be our addiction day. I hope that doesn't happen on the 4th of July. He'll declare his government, but most likely something later. So, this movable mentality from the symbolic and material world is reflected in this Article 5, and our amendment, which we want to fix what is possible, refers to the replacement of certain words. In fact, we ask that the words "security of the state border and control of border crossing and movement and stay in the border zone" be replaced only with three words: "control of crossing the border", that police control the border crossing. As we know, since the Serbs and Serbia and since our independence, the Serbian border has been defended by the bravest Serbian soldiers. You know that one of Đura Jaksic's most popular paintings is dedicated to this Serb army. It's about a picture that had a foothold in reality, it's about three Serbian border guards who fought a Turkish company who tried to break into Serbian territory for 24 hours. That company counted over a hundred soldiers, but they didn't pass. And in these days, in the 1990s, we had border units that we could be proud of, that weren't even in Europe, let alone in our closer environment. Those units, which General Delic would certainly know better to explain than I do, are subject to special training after large checks that these soldiers have been passing individually. Of course, the EU hit, when it comes to the military, first these units that were also in that first echelon, which could defend this country. It's one to calculate NATO's impact on Serbia's security. We attend this every day and witness the daily destruction of the Serbian army and its resources. What's ironic about this whole story is that there was the first group of our border guards trained by a British Navy officer who taught them how to guard the border, but of course from the point of view of a single vessel captain. He didn't know to answer any questions our officers asked him because, of course, he knows nothing about the land border. What is the biggest problem of accepting this member, the way he is, without introducing this amendment? He was written for a beautiful, peaceful, happy country, which is enough today in a united Europe. These are countries bordering Andorra, Luxembourg, Monte Carlo. Unfortunately, we're bordering on a wild tribe. They landed on Kosovo, occupied it, expelled the Serbian people. They broke out at the edge of the Serbian people's civilization. It's a wild tribe run by an invisible drug cartel where Pablo Escobar would probably be the most courier, he couldn't get a better job. These are the people who have perfected the crime, who trade in human organs, whom nothing on this earth is sacred, at least Serbs, and richly not their own countrymen. We should fight against such barbarians, face them, and never know when they will cross this line of civilization that we once again defend. We must indeed at these limits have highly trained, highly capable, ideologically truly defined soldiers, patriots who are not hard to give their country their lives. That's where we come up with a big collapsing. In fact, the police are, in the nature of things, to simplify that, a group of people who are tied to a particular habitat. We're looking at it completely laymanically. So these are people who care about safety and safety in one city. What happens if we move them out, if we always transfer them from one line to another? Soldiers, when they commit to this trade, they know their home is where their homeland decides, they have no problem with it. Another very important thing. Every soldier, especially a Serb soldier, is a bit of a warrior. It's very important when someone defines himself as a military call. That's why, among other things, we had an army that had the only command in the world: "After me! '". For the last time, on the left hand side, such a command was said by Ratko Mladic, whom you will never catch. In the second part of this Article 5, relating to the Ministry of the Interior, we ask that the words "registration on refugees" be added to the words "registration register of the Association of Citizens". That means it's the police who are going to sign up and take care of this register. Under citizens' associations, a very broad term, many different organisations appear in Serbia today, which have made their political definitions a lucrative business. So, the police are the only institutions in this society that have the mechanisms to control who writes it and, when they sign it, to keep it under constant control, a certain kind of control. Of course, that registry is located, if I'm not mistaken, in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labour, which deals exclusively with this issue bureaucratic. They write them down and they're almost -- they're verified, they can participate in all the activities in this society. I think it's high time to put order in this area, see if these humanitarian organizations are really human, see if these women are really widows and they're black. So it's high time to bring order into this area, and the only institution, I repeat, that could do this is the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u853	The word is Mr. Jojic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u854	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 concerning the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia. Jobs listed in Article 5, that the Ministry of the Interior shall carry out the tasks of the State Administration relating to: the protection of life, personal and property security of citizens; the prevention and detection of criminal offences and the finding and capture of perpetrators of criminal offences and their bringing them to competent authorities; the maintenance of public order and peace; the provision of assistance in the event of danger; the provision of choirs and other gatherings of citizens... ''But, ladies and gentlemen, the SRS believes that the provisions of this article should also include those provisions that should create opportunities and conditions for the security of the Republic of Serbia and detect and prevent actions aimed at undermining or destroying the Constitution of established order. Due to the circumstances in which the state of Serbia is now and is going through, the need is being imposed here. God forbid it's the fifth of October again. It was an act of undermining and destroying the Constitution and breaking one state, i.e. The SRJ, as well as the Republic of Serbia. In the proposal for provisions relating to the Ministry of the Interior, there are certain tasks which are in parallel law and how they are incorporated into the national laws of certain countries that have their own history, great and strong security, and pay particular attention to the defence of the country, safeguarding the constitutionally established order. And you know that our country is occupied, you know that our territory is occupied when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. In the proposal of this member, there are no specific jobs that were to be entered and specified and to oblige the competent Home Office to carry out those tasks as well. Some jobs, however, are not listed in Article 5's proposal. What is the ministry when you look at the aspect of parallel law through history? It is a body which performs the tasks of the state administration and, in order to carry out certain tasks of the state administration in the work of the body, which requires independence and special organisation because of its natural integrity and manner of performance. Even administration authorities, such as in certain countries, can be educated in parallel law. Ladies and gentlemen, the ministerial post was given the public character only at the end of the 17th century, and until then it was a function of private law. The government, as a collegiate body, consists of a president, possibly a vice-president, and one or more corresponding number of ministers standing at the head of individual resolutions and ministers without portfolios. Depending on the number of government members, ministers, governments can group into small, medium and large ones. Small governments are the ones that have under 20 ministries, bigger ones that have 20-30. All ministers in the governments of certain countries do not have the same meaning. They differ and vary somewhere, depending on the importance of their resources or their political and professional qualities. As a result, in practice some countries form narrow bodies, cabinets, which are members of the elders of large ministries: foreign affairs, finance and home affairs. So here we are, when it comes to internal affairs and the provisions of Article 5 of this law. What was missing and what was missing, and should be included in the provisions of Article 5 of this proposal? What the ministries do besides that, and this ministry too - apply laws and other regulations and general acts of the National Assembly and the Government, or provide for their enforcement, resolve administrative matters, exercise administrative supervision, prepare laws. This one's gone. In the affairs of the Ministry of Interior there is no such thing, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior and other resolutions - to prepare laws and other regulations and general acts and carry out professional and other tasks laid down by law and other regulations. The ministries shall directly apply the laws and regulations and general acts by adopting administrative and other acts, by taking administrative and other measures, by performing administrative and other actions. There's no such thing in this bill. In parallel, the right of other countries to do so. In parallel, there are mostly common ministries that exist in the country, which are - the Ministry of Defence, Home Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Finance, for economic relations with abroad, justice, agriculture, forestry, water industry, industry, mining, energy, traffic, connections, urbanism, housing and commercial activities, construction, trade and tourism. Now, you see, SRS MPs are today, Mr. Rogovic was talking about tourism. I don't think this government is aware of the losses it causes the state with its inactivity when it comes to tourism. You have so much space and so many important tourist centers in this country, that tourism could also provide resources in our country. That's why erasing tourism is the wrong way, and this is really a government mistake. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to power, I would just remind you, you know for sure, I'll say a few words when it comes to constitutionality and legality. What is power? Here's what kind of power we have, and what kind of power it's supposed to be, compare it. The Authority is a social relationship in which individual entities may determine the behaviour and activities of other entities by means of actual or potential application of an organised offer. The notion of authority should differ from the concept of authority. These two concepts are often equated even though they don't have the same meaning. Authority mainly expresses the property or authority of someone to respect their decisions, thoughts, perceptions, and the like, as a rule, without an external or normative threat. Not only is he, that organ, the boss, the scientist, the father - negative authority, but he's such an active authority. What is political power when it comes to the ministry? Political power is the basic form and basis of government in society. There are other forms of government, such as history, parental authority, party authority, church authority, social organisations and institutions, economic, cultural, educational, sports, etc. All of them are in common to impose their will on society or individuals. That's the problem. When certain laws are proposed, they must, above all, be democratic laws, they must be laws that can live and they must be laws in the interests of citizens and in the interests of the state. The state has a monopoly of legal application of organised physical coercion on its territory. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to certain jurisdiction, we must bear in mind the Constitution, the Constitutional Court, we must bear in mind constitutionality. And that didn't come back to life with us. Why is there no constitutionality with us? Well, it's not because the Constitutional Court judges are elected on the political line. What is the Constitution - you know it well, but in parallel law it says: in a material and broader sense it involves a set of norms and rules governing the foundation of a social organisation in a political community, the way in which the state government is exercised in it, as well as the borders of state authorities. Such limits are the freedoms and rights of individuals and collectives. What rights do our citizens enjoy? According to our citizens, selective law applies. From a common offense, a crime, a reasonable suspicion that someone committed a crime, or just a suspicion, the only question arises is which political party. This is what we need to realize – that there is no justice in this country, although DOS has pointed out and Democrats are always pointing out today, as followers, that we are doing reforms, that we want a legal state, that we want to guarantee citizens all the rights protected by the UN Charter and the Security Council resolutions and the Pact on Europe's political and human rights. All countries in the world, ladies and gentlemen, have a constitution. The constitution is a dam. The Constitution prevents abuse. The constitution prevents basic human and political rights from being trampled. That's what they're like. The Law on Rights of 1689 or the Law on Parliament from 1911 and 1949 in Great Britain, in which you think that we can find solutions to all problems, and in fact, intelligence and agents and spies and occupiers in our country are just the ones from Great Britain, Germany, America and NATO. In a political sense, the constitution exists when subjectivity, self-will and abuse of state authorities are disabled. This is what the state government is being translated through the ministries as executive bodies, and also as political institutions of individual political organisations, i.e. Party. The constitution is an act of the institution and objectiveization of the conduct of state authorities. In a sociological sense, I don't want to tell you this, and the contents of the constitution refer to two kinds of questions. The first group of issues relates to state authority and the second to society and its members and citizens. A group of issues related to state authority covers different ways of forming the government: choice, standing, division of power into different state bodies, relations between state authorities and the acts they adopt. The social issues include the principles of the constitution on the pathways of economic, political life in society, as well as the Charter of Civil and Political Rights. The legal properties of the constitution are that it is the basic law and the highest general act, but many forget and want to bypass the constitution whenever basic human and political rights are to be applied and respected. Irregular properties of the constitution are that it is an ideological-political and programme-declarative act. What about the Constitutional Court? How do we view it as an organ and an institution, and how is it in other developed countries, in parallel law? The Constitutional Court in the constitutional decision-making process, in fact, interprets the constitution, but is bound by the constitution. Is that the case with us? It's not. It has not been mentioned since 2001, because the text of the constitution must be strictly adhered to, seeking its true meaning and objective content. (President: Mr. Jojic, you spoke for 15 minutes. It's time for the SRS to follow this amendment. ) Thank you for your attention. Chairman, thank you for telling me that my time...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u855	Mr. Palalic answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u856	The Honorable Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, one of the most important ministries formed within each government, in any country in the world, are indeed the Ministry of the Interior. His affairs and his responsibilities are something that penetrates directly into what citizens, in the extreme line, are most interested and most important to them, and that is personal security and security.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u857	Mr. Palalic, just tell me what amendment you're talking about. About Mr. Momir Markovic's amendment or...?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u858	On the amendment to Article 5.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u859	Both Momir Markovic and Mr Jojic submitted to the 5th amendment. What amendment are you talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u860	Mr. Peter Jojic's amendment. So one of the most important ministries in each government is the MUP. It is especially necessary now to apostrophe the importance of his responsibilities and affairs. One of the most important topics that citizens are now interested in, which all the polls are talking about, which more or less all political parties have highlighted in their campaign, is the fight against crime and corruption. To ask every citizen what it is he expects of the state, he will say - to ensure the safety of his family, to ensure the safety of his children and to achieve justice in society. When we ask citizens - who do you see as an organ that will realize it? , citizens say - it's the police. The previous two governments, led by Vojislav Kostunica, also showed that one of the most important priorities was the fight against crime and corruption. But in order to successfully implement this through the MUP, there must be a man who is ready to face these major challenges that many ministers have not faced before in Serbia. The results in the field have just shown in the previous period that the responsible government and responsible ministry are dealing with one of the biggest problems in the country. With the ministry law under discussion, the amendment concerning Article 5, which defines the interior ministry's competence, I would like to point out how much in the previous four years, just in the fight against crime and corruption, Interior Minister Dragan Jocic contributed. In the fight against various forms of organised crime, in the fight against those mafias that have undermined the state of Serbia for years, it has seemed insecure, diminished citizens' confidence in the state and increasingly helplessly spread their hands that the state is unable to ensure peace, justice and security. That's why it's important who's headed the M.O.P. That's why personal courage and commitment to this job are important. Citizens of the Department of Police expect a lot. They have always expected, especially now that the fight against crime and corruption in Serbia is becoming increasingly heated and when a message is being sent and Serbia hopes to deal with the monster very quickly. Of course, we will see that the future interior minister will succeed in carrying out these great obligations. He had to look up to his predecessor who didn't hesitate to face these affairs and challenges. It is up to citizens to respond, to finally break organised crime in Serbia, to ban drug dealers from the streets, to provide young people with personal security and to prevent a large number of car accidents that we are now facing from looking at, to eliminate it as much as possible. I believe that in the exhibition, in the exposé of the prime minister, we will have the opportunity to hear how he sees the functioning of this important area, but, as I said, it is always necessary to look up to those who have had the personal courage and courage to face this monster. That was Minister Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u861	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u862	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was not surprised by the Committee's proposal, which said, "The Committee has decided to propose to the National Assembly to reject the following amendments... "and besides the amendment of MP Momir Markovic to Article 5. The amendment I submitted reads: Article 5 after the word "hazardous matter", the words "procuring, holding and carrying weapons and ammunition" are added. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, exactly what Mr. Jojic said earlier, when we look from that unfortunate October 5th to today as much as the intelligence and business for the members of the MUP has done, something signed, something deleted, and people who have been prevented from doing business the way they've done since the police in the world. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I can testify about the many heroes of the people in blue uniforms in that war, how the fossil remains of some pro-European idea said today, blamed by the SRS, that we are to blame for the exorcising of Serbs from Republika Srpska, for the pogroms of Serbs in "Bleek" and "Storms", for banishing Serbs from Bosnia and Herzegovina and for what is happening today to Serbs in Republika Srpska, which means they are slowly erasing the state that has been written down by the Dayton Agreement. Mr Delic and many who participated in this war for Serbia's defence, which concerns Kosovo and Metohija, can also testify about the heroic acts of police officers who have left their lives defending Serbian citizens, defending property and territorial integrity. Therefore, it has always been honorable, honest and fair to wear a uniform, army or police, it doesn't matter. The Serb loved the uniform. You tried to disgust her. Let's start with what it says here that it belongs to the ministry, so let's analyze a little bit how in these eight years, what it says hasn't changed much, has been applied. He says: "The Ministry of the Interior is doing the tasks of the state administration relating to the protection of life, personal and property security of citizens; preventing and detecting criminal acts and finding and catching the perpetrators of criminal acts and bringing them to the authorities... Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have friends of police officers who have complained to me about catching a drug dealer or a criminal tonight, handing him over to investigative authorities, and tomorrow night they see him again on the street. What is it that is between them and those who should have continued this job in Serbia? What's the missing link in this business? He goes on and on and on and on and on and on and maintaining public order and peace; providing assistance in the event of danger; providing choirs and other gatherings of citizens... '". The SRS has made the most magnificent choirs in election campaigns and rallys written in anals. No incident has happened at our meetings. The SRS itself organized a redistributory service that took care not of whether they were going to make something of our own who had come, but rather of getting us someone who was going to make the incident. He goes on to say, "... providing certain personalities and facilities... '". Now, here you are, ladies and gentlemen of the democratic yellow company, to the end you humiliated the police. Thanks to the so-called so-called "domestic" laws. the protection of the so-called protected so-called Witnesses, officers who have always made decent and honest bread, today must guard the criminals whom you have protected with various quasi-laws from upholding the sentence because they have become protected witnesses. Today, the honorable officers sit and cook in the car, and in winter, they freeze to death, guarding all sorts of buggies, plagues, and I don't know what they're called. Instead of arresting them, they have to keep them safe. He goes on to say, '"... including foreign diplomatic and consular representations... (That's what they've always kept)... Security of the state border... '". You've also loaded a state border guard on the police. The army has always guarded the state border, and today unprepared and financially undersecure police guard the border, so it can happen that a police officer from the housing site travels 80km to a job somewhere on a border ramp or on a station. He goes on to say, '"... The transport and transport of weapons, ammunition, explosive and certain other dangerous substances... '". This is where I asked for an amendment to be put behind this and: "bought, held and carrying arms and ammunition." All the crimes, all the mobs that take place on the streets are being conducted just unregistered and illegal weapons. So far it has not been recorded that someone has committed a crime with a weapon for which they have a license to hold or carry. A famous member of 33. The law on arms and ammunition also obliges the police, and here in this part you did not find appropriate, you listed a lot of things that did not belong in this member of the law, but that is why you dropped the part relating to one segment, one substance whose uncontrollable appearance in society, in the country is very dangerous. I suggested that it be put behind this: "procuring, holding and carrying weapons and ammunition", and the Committee said - I suggest the National Assembly reject the next amendments, including this. Without this part, without this amendment, this law remains a plague, unspoken and leaves a legal void, so that a lot of evil things can happen in this country. Of course, you'll say we're not responsible. In addition, it says: ''... Manual firearms, devices and ammunition testing; fire protection; citizenship; unique home number of citizens; residence... "'" (when we're at a unique home number, what you've "put on" police as a job, that she's now pressing on Serbian citizens, is that famous chip in personal documents, which the SRS still fought against, and today we think that part has to be deleted from that law; you've come to the situation to say 'who will,' which means that when the first one starts, you'll ask the law to regulate that everyone's wearing it... illegal migration; asylum; staff training... ''Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, apparently this back-to-back coalition, in a hurry to prescribe and prepare the law so that on Independence Day, the United States of America declares the government of Serbia, manages to hand over and propose a law that doesn't really look anything like anything. Inform "Dear George" that you'll have to wait a little while to form a government and you won't be able to celebrate two holidays at once.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u863	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, who practically recently, when he took part in the debate, explained this amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the title above Articles 6 and 6 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Vladan Batic suggested that Article 6 entitled "The Ministry of Finance" be changed and that it should read "The Ministry of Finance and the National Investment Plan" and then describe the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance in Article 6 add a description of the competence of "The Ministry of National Investment Plan" from Article 6. 22 Bills of Law. What is the essence of all this, that is, the number of ministries proposed for this future government? We simply told you that, I think it is clear to you, too, that you are aware of these facts – that you must satisfy all the wishes of all those in this coalition who thinks they form a government. It's the old one, "Little Bar and lots of crocodiles." These giant crocodiles will get ministerial seats, but not all, unfortunately, for this poor and tormented Serbia. There are crocodiles, which are also extremely harmful, but these great crocodiles provide them with the possibility of harassing and destroying Serbia's country. What it looks like I'm going to show you on one case of a company. It is the airport's director Mr. Bojan Kristo (our honest Bojan, Mladjan Dinkic is the only one more honest than he). I will show you how the state of Serbia is being destroyed and how the money of the Serbian state is being spent. For the beginning of information that Bojan Kristo does not do this destruction for free, do not think that he does it in the sweat of his face, he has a monthly salary of 382.210 dinars. In 2007, he joined the director of the "Nikola Tesla" Airport and immediately headed for rationalization. As a technological surplus, he received 141 employees of the airport. This cost the country 135,634,571 dinar. I am saying this because of those who intend to possibly improve life conditions with Mladjan Dinkic, the most endangered categories of our citizens, the pensioners. And well, a technological surplus, fair to pay for the severance, what to do - the state, the law is it. That's not the problem. The problem, among other things, is in two workers who also received severance, such as the director of legal affairs Radivoj Rajakovic. It cost the state 3,515,656 dinars, and his secretary received 1,314.139 dinars. Well, that's not the problem either, so let's just kind of swallow it. You know what the problem is? The fact that Mr. Radivoj Rajakovic immediately afterwards hired himself at the "Skialište of Serbia" at the fair Mladjan Dinkic. Now, that's the problem. It's already for prosecution, and someone has to answer for this. Sutanovac opened the severance season in 24 months' wages and then went to the SDPR. Now, I said in the beginning, what about those 141 workers who got severances? The problem is that already in January 2008 they were for part-time work (see, 17 of them received severance fees and were working part-time at the "Nikola Tesla" airport) cost the state 1,493,104 dinars. Here, it's just a small segment of one company, to see how the state is destroyed and how in the same legal way you rob the state. But that's not all. Bojan Kristo wouldn't be who he is if he wasn't able to take every chance to destroy the state. As director of a large public enterprise, he should have an official car and there's no dilemma. And it would be normal for Bojan Kristo to take the official car. But no, he's not gonna hurt the state and buy a car. He found a better way. He signed a lease contract at 12 months a year for "aud A6" (the purchase value of 114,390 Swiss francs). The airport costs 78,349 Swiss francs. What's the problem here? Look out, Nicole Tesla Airport pays rent every month. When the lease's over, the car's got to come back. If the value decreases, it must be compensated or taken from the guarantee and the state is at a purely loss. It's something that's just amazing. In doing so, "Nikola Tesla" airport pays for the installation of ji-pi-es equipment (it is that one cannot understand it, but must follow it through satellite), technical inspection and registration, maximum insurance, regular services, replacement of summer tyres, all costs, taxes, etc. The guarantee comes back when they return in 2009. Now, this is the Members of Parliament. He learned where the bunny drinks water and now he thinks he knows everything. [[tossing out of the O.R.]] Unbelievable. Lysing is a lease, and the lease is a lease. When it's over, I'm gonna slow down, lean, try to explain it to you, it's really not worth it, and I don't know why you're defending Bojan. You think this is justified? One is a lease, the other is a licking. Don't just let the pain explain it to you because he's fallen on all the exams so far, but go to the other side and you'll get it all figured out. But, joke aside, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this is the problem we've been facing since 2001, that the state is systematically destroying itself through institutions that are supposed to serve the state, because these are public enterprises that have a monopoly position thanks to the state, and those who came in 2001, misusing that position for their own and party purposes, are destroying the state. You will have the opportunity, when there is a debate on the government, when the future prime minister comes out with an exposé, then I will present to you all the information relating to the salaries of the director of public enterprises, the chairman of the boards of directors, the team, and you will see what millions of figures are taken from the citizens of this country. How are those who are in power, we are well and alive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u865	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to Article 6. I can only say that one part of the amendment applies to one kind of technical editorial. Although here for eight years, we have warned you to give up these foreign expressions because when you use them, you don't look any smarter than you are, although it's the custom of some former ministers, present MPs (not in the O.R., not to mention them), they like to use those foreign words, you put them into certain laws, so there's a word here, which is still not the place in the law. It says quantification of the measure of economic policy. It was easier to write: economic policy measures and not question this part at all. However, when it comes to the Ministry of Finance and Article 6 which regulates the powers and obligations of the ministry, I cannot say that these are objections, but it seems that the problem with you is not what it says in the law, but how you experience the law and how you implement it. I would only like to discuss some of the responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance, or the future minister, what his powers are, and since this is the same coalition, or similar, in the last eight years, only with various mutations, etc., to show how you've been acting so far while you've been in power. In Article 6, one of the jobs of the finance ministry is to coordinate activities in the area of planning, security and use of donations, European funds and other forms of development assistance from abroad. Since you came to power, of those promised six billion dollars (or six and a half, anyway) if you win the election, and so on, we haven't seen 600,000, let alone six billion, there's an abuse in donations. There are many ways of abuse (you have reported yourself, practiced yourself, something those of the West have taught you). How do you usually do that? Usually, the donor draws certain funds from various EU funds, from voluntary contributions from citizens, reportedly to help Serbian citizens, if a state body, whether at some local self-government, and says: compete for this and the project, we will provide funds. They compete, the funds are approved, they go into realisation, and then usually, if they're municipalities where you're in power, you call press conferences, you bring the citizens together -- that's how the EU helps us, that's how everybody gives us money, how we're good, beautiful, smart, how we think of you, and even what we don't have, we find ways to get you. It happens, as long as the donation takes place, that the government and change (you know, the government is a variable category, at least in normal democratic states), so some other political party comes to power just as the project or the donation is completed and the handover between donors and donor users should be made. Then the donor says, "Here, we're giving you a donation that costs 500,000 euros." The donor says, "Okay, let's make it there, let's make a committee of experts, let's see how much it really costs." It turns out it costs 30 or 40,000 euros, 15% of the value the donor claims is on how much the agreement is made. Where did the difference end? Something about a donor, something about the guy who signed that first contract. What's the ministry's job? Shouldn't the Ministry be watching, not us running around with the various presidents of municipalities, officials and others? Let the Ministry do it, at least we know about each of these abuses who's to blame. It's on one side. On the other hand, you have even worse vision (there are only, let me say, donations stolen) that are mostly said - a partial donation. The donor provides 70% and 30% the donor. The donor always has the obligation and the right to determine the contractors, the procurement of materials for the performance of works, etc. So 30% pays the donor. Usually, the entire value of the project comes down to the 30%, the 70% with which the donor held it disappears. So donation stories were mostly classic abuses. And that, whether in the state authorities, whether in local self-government, at the time of the start of the donation in power was you from the yellow company. We can list, if you're interested, what are the municipalities? The finance ministry says further, regulates the payment and payment system, securities and the capital market. Let's cut to the chase. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2005, I can say that you have partially fulfilled one promise - you have not printed the money. That money in effect, money done. But you've been doing one primary show, very corrupt and at the expense of the citizens, all along, through the broadcasting of securities of value. Two state institutions, with the agreement of the ministry, have broadcast securities of value - on the one hand the National Bank, and on the other hand the Treasury - and now you are calculating the value of the euro on the market all the time. When it comes to buying the euro, you withdraw securities from the value, the euro falls. When the euro is to be sold, you broadcast securities of value, the euro jumps. Who's covering this possible loss? The National Bank. And from where? From the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So what you represent as one of the greatest successes is the most common situation of which one is enormously rich. The emissions of securities are high, so only at one variation of the euro rate on the market of a certain foreign bank earns 140-150m euros. They are probably grateful to Mladjan Dinkic, and current Finance Minister Cvetkovic, future prime minister, probably the governor of the National Bank, but not only are they grateful to him, I believe that in a certain way they show him that gratitude through something tangible, not to tell the commission. Let's see how you enforce the laws. It's said: privatization and recovery of banks. It has been said here several times that this ministry that has been rehabilitating and privatising banks has done nothing more than attempt to legalise, rob and confiscate the capital held by banks for making it cheaper to sell businesses that owed these same banks a certain amount on behalf of the loan. In the Sartida case alone, damage has been done to the state of half a billion euros, which you keep refusing to say, and in the recovery and liquidation of other banks is assumed to be the least damage between four and five billion euros. Is that the four or five we were supposed to get from the donation? No, I don't. The capital that's been from here, which has been real here for decades (you've been playing with it), mostly with the help of Mladjan Dinkic. It is said: protecting Serbia's assets abroad. Here's an ideal opportunity to say that you are concerned about the property of the Republic of Serbia abroad. We all know how the former SFRY fell apart. It was a secession, an armed conflict, the formation of paramilitary units, which at the time consisted mostly of 19 and 20-year-olds. You, gentlemen, after the 5th of October, crossed it into a succession. And not only have you legalized the murder of these young men, not only have you put in an unfavourable position for Serbia, that now it must be before various international organisations to justify why its army in its territory had to defend itself, but you have led to the fact that the property that was brought into the Kingdom of Serbia is shared with both Slovenia and Croatia. That's what you've done. Who bestowed on it? Mladjan Dinkic again. But the public has never known exactly how much these foreign-bank foreign-bank foreign-bank reserves were, how much they belonged to Serbia. All the information we received, and we as MPs and citizens as public, were only partial. Why don't you say how much you lost the embassy, how many consular representations did you lose by accepting that it was a succession? Why don't you tell the citizens of Serbia? What about the property that was social and which had to be transferred to natural persons because of UN sanctions in order to continue the normal functioning of these state and social enterprises that were important for the functioning of the state? What's with the property? Why didn't you give it back to the state? The sanctions have stopped. What's the problem now? He went to Cyprus several times, counted, opened vaults, searched, talked about some Milosevic dollars, stamps, whatever. He didn't bring any of that. What about that property? Is she missing? Well, the real estate can't disappear, no one can put it on their backs. You've shared it again and you're hiding it through this recovery and liquidation of banks, because most of the time these kinds of transitions of social and state to private property are just to ensure normal functioning, so that the state can finish some of its work. I can only talk about your abuses in the area of finance based on one of these members day and night. It's not the law's problem, it's not the way it's written. This could be why Bosko Ristic can write the best law in the world if he can. The problem is with the government that you're going to vote for and what laws you're going to enforce. Just, let me tell you one more thing. They've got enough money on them. They've taken enough for themselves and for their generations. Thanks to you, he'll keep doing it. It's just, once you've fallen out of power, it won't wait long, they'll probably get away, and you're staying to answer to the citizens for everything they've done.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u867	Thank you. The National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bosko Ristic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u868	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, honourable presidents and presidents, I have submitted an amendment to part of the law concerning the Ministry of Justice. We are all witnessing frequent reports that bombs are in our courts, that explosives are placed, very often there are false tips, very often there are murders during the trials themselves, there are frequent threats to the holders of judicial functions, so I think it is necessary that the Ministry of Justice, within the course of its delirious jurisdiction, also has a judicial watch to improve the state of security and security of the holders of judicial functions, in order to ensure more secure conduct of procedural proceedings before the court, and that the citizens of Serbia, who are also parties in these proceedings, are safer and not suffer from these very often false, and perhaps even real information about the existence of public and personal security threats. I also believe that the work of the Justice Ministry should also be done in order to see whether these tasks are done effectively within a reasonable period of time and how and to what extent the interests and rights of Serbian citizens are protected. Accordingly, statistics should also be added to the work of statistics, in order to enable and create preconditions for assessing the work of judicial institutions, as well as for professional associations and prosecutors and judges, in order to better look at their impact and, on realistic grounds, to enable progress, i.e. removal from the judiciary of those who do not produce any results, to the detriment of citizens. I think these are jobs that will benefit the citizens of Serbia, which will improve the level and quality of protection of human and other rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u869	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u870	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Article 7 of the Ministry Act explains the jurisdiction of the future Justice Ministry. I don't know who this portfolio will belong to, I suppose to the strongest coalition partner, yet it is important, but it shows what the future government will have to do with its obligations, according to The Hague tribunal, or how it will face obligations under the Co-operation Act with The Hague tribunal. For this reason, we have responded to the amendment by asking that Article 7 "the decision to hand over the defendants to the International Tribunal for the criminal prosecution of persons responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991 and on the basis of legal and executive judicial decisions" by replacing the words "providing legal aid and collecting the documentation necessary to prepare the defence of persons indicted before the so-called International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia". We are interested in how the new government will arrest, say, Hadzic or Mladic or Karadzic. How will he make a decision on this matter in this consolidation of forces and such a coalition? And it's obvious there's a readiness. Because when the prime minister explains his government's programme, he will have to touch both the justice and co-operation ministries with The Hague tribunal and the future coalition will obviously agree that in this way, one-way, it is co-operating with The Hague tribunal. That's just for the record. The public needs to be aware of that. The SRS stance, of course, is that no Serb should be extradited to The Hague tribunal. The Republic of Serbia must take great care of the rights of its citizens already in place, and therefore we respond to this amendment, and we believe that this ministry must provide all legal assistance in preparing for the defence of its citizens, because they are there primarily for political reasons, and it is important for the state of Serbia to defend itself against these accusations. Whenever they asked the UN tribunal for extradition, it was extradited. Sometimes for money, as was the case with Slobodan Milosevic (it was said that someone had received four or five million dollars for such a thing), sometimes to completely humiliate us, sometimes to give you a carrot and tell you - here, you are now closer to entering the EU (and there for God knows what), and so since 2000, all those against whom the indictment has been brought except for these three indictees, whom I believe will never be arrested and will cease the work of The Hague tribunal, and that they will remain at large, alive and healthy, which, of course, I wish from the heart. A large number of people have also found themselves there because of political impatience because since 2000, you have simply been unable to accept some people as politically active. They were such a threat to you that even though no one asked for them, you offered them. That was the case with Dr. Vojislav Seselj. You wrote the indictment yourself, you asked Carla del Ponte to formally press charges, and here, there's a court case, one man's been incarcerated for six years, not guilty or indemnity, and if you hadn't done, as a state, nothing to make that position easier for him or to repent of your misdeeds. No one in this new old DOS has even made public a position to think, or comment on what Carla del Ponte is saying today on all her mouth, to be ashamed of the actions of his president or of some official of his then political party who has contributed to the fact that an innocent man has been in custody for so long. Some here, and from this pay phone, are already advertising guilty even though the UN tribunal can't do it either, are obviously in a great deal of trouble as to how this trial should end, and to get out of it elegantly, not to bring down some of its integrity as an international institution, which it believes it has, although it would be quite normal and appropriate for a serious state to ask the United Nations to reconsider the Security Council's decision to establish that court. We have a legitimate right to do this, no one else can do it for us, and the fact is that there are huge numbers of member states in the United Nations against the UN tribunal. We have a majority in the United Nations to make such a decision, and now it's the political decision of this Parliament whether it will do something like that. I think it's high time to deal with it, get serious and put it as something that's a priority, because in this way we would save, first of all, our national face and spare ourselves the further collapse, the further harmful consequences of making these judgments. I believe that neither you nor anyone in Serbia today is at all a dilemma about what the UN tribunal is, especially after such a verdict to Ramush Haradinaj and, today, Naser Oric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u871	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u872	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic has not only raised one very important issue with the proposed amendment, but has also given us a hint of our future work and it is an absolutely serious matter for a parliament. So far, as the National Assembly, we had absolutely no insight into this, except that Ms. Verica Radeta was tireless, as well as her colleague Krasic and all the other defense team lawyers, Mr. Vukic, while being a National MP in the Serbian Parliament, spoke of what the special prosecutor and his spokesman were doing and what were the meetings with Karl del Ponte, who is the former chief prosecutor of the anti-Serbian case, but I am now, based on this story by Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic, coming up with one logical thought. It's quite clear how things are going to go. This is a scandal today, and, of course, something we could expect, that a convicted villain, Naser Oric, finally freed himself of responsibility, and we know that in his area of responsibility he committed such crimes against more than 3,000 of our countrymen in 80 Serbian villages. But if last week's Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, or the Committee on Legal Affairs, could, on the basis of the initiative, primarily the Russian delegation, and then there were the signatories and other delegates, or MPs, who wanted to support such a thing, determine the rapporteur and launch an investigation based on the book of this monster, Carla del Ponte, in which she said she knew about the case of trade with the authorities of our countrymen from Kosovo and Metohija, then why couldn't the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia go with that same lead? In that same book, in its memoirs, Carla del Ponte, as she stated, and you can see that it was the basis (I read you a proposal for a reporter, a reporter named Dick Marty, who will probably until October's regular autumn session to prepare a full report on it), so the principle of work is that now, taking into account exclusively, because they said they were coming from the quote from her book, why, as a National Assembly, wouldn't we be doing that with the same lead and based on statements from the same person going to investigate? It is in a book where she wrote what was the basis for the Council of Europe, and that Zoran Djindjic told her: take Seselj and don't return him to Serbia. Therefore, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can... You who shout: "wow" probably realized that it was the wrong policy of such a mob government and such a move to put a political opponent and a man who won the election right after October 5th, and his party, over a million votes, in the Hague cadet. You think that's gonna solve the problem. Well, you won't. Now we could, since we are the largest parliamentary group, and I expect our SPS colleagues to join us in this – regardless, this is parliamentary work, this is a serious matter, your president, Mr. Socialists, has been kidnapped (Kalispera, Mr. Dacic). I'm sorry, I just saw you come in, I saw you today, but for a little while. ) so that we can really educate the polling committee and start dealing with this issue. What's that supposed to look like in practice? And you who are long ago in the Assembly, and you who are the new parliamentarians, you know, you remember the work of the polling committee. And when he's a professor. Seselj determined the murder of former Defence Minister Pavel Bulatovic, and Mr. Vukic, we never received that report, nor did we adopt it, the theft of electricity from the Kumovic couple Hamovic-Lazarevic, these Dinkic mobsters. We're also going with that lead. Well, then nice, not now as the employer for the delivery of living Serbian meat, but to come before the polling board of Carla del Ponte, wherever she is, and give a statement. Here, in this building, in this room, and to testify about who ordered her to, to whom she spoke, what all these encounters looked like and to come to the final truth. Not every time we mention it to you, you either yell "whoo" or jump like you did last night. Excuse me, please, I'm going to repeat last night: The court of history is the best court. If someone can, as Dr. Seselj and other Hague prisoners do, fight for years and know that there is an injustice, they wait to see what will happen to them, and on the other hand the state is doing nothing, then don't look white as if you haven't heard anything about it, and you don't know when we're talking to you and when such an amendment suggests Mrs. Pop-Lazic. I was there yesterday, I entered the session of the Legislative Committee at the moment when she explained it to her colleagues on the Legislative Committee and you, of course, refused. Should I mention to you that unfortunate man, Radoslav Stojanovic, whom you sent, as well as all such and similar counters, to the ambassador of our country to the Netherlands? What was he doing? He's making fun of the Hague prisoners. How does he speak? He gave an interview with an agency newspaper, a weekly one here in Serbia, not to advertise it, and said that Momcilo Krajisnik can take a million-euro lawyer, they have who knows how many million. Except in that way he speaks to our prisoners, he says to Mr. Seselj, "Oh, I won't even see him." Why won't he see him? This guy drove him away and said, "Don't show up on my eyes." Not even at the time when he had the hardest time, when life was at stake by strike so much hunger, he didn't want to see any similar counters from the embassy that were there to serve the interests of the employers to see. I'm sorry, this is a serious job and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has absolutely all the mechanisms, and it's also forming a polling committee, and it's just when Dr Vojislav Seselj returns to Serbia to adopt a survey committee report, and so far we're going to examine all the facts and all the circumstances under which this false indictment against him was concluded here.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u873	The word has an MP, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a lot of objections to this article 7, a description of the affairs of the Ministry of Justice. You can't tell the Ministry what he's going to do. If that ministry has the right to propose to the government of law like any other, you can't say that exactly the Ministry of Justice is going to propose a law of procedure before the Constitutional Court. What does it matter to us MPs who, within the framework of the government, is going to propose this law to the government? We're not represented by the ministries here, we're represented by the government here. So the government will deliver a proposal to us, perhaps even any MP. What about the Justice Department? We're going to get that bill of procedure before the Constitutional Court, or we're going to adopt it or we're not, but we can't refuse it because the Ministry of Justice didn't propose it. Furthermore, in ensuring the safety of participants in the process, I agree, for many reasons, that there is a legitimate concern of some judges that their lives, personal and property security are at stake. There are objective and subjective reasons, of course, we're all a little guilty here, and how can the mob threaten judges? But we close our eyes to the obvious fact that many judges are part of the organised system that Serbia is being robbed of. You want to provide them with safety and safety. I totally agree. Special Guard, call her whatever you want, but only in court. And where are they threatened? In front of the house. That's where they put their bombs under the car. Will the court guard secure them on the streets? On the streets, you can't save the military and the police to be anyone else armed as a state organ. Otherwise, we could say that children are at risk in schools, so we're going to bring in a school guard who's going home to look after teachers, and then we're going to say that they're endangered workers in the heavy industry, and in this one, and in that... What does that mean? You once tried, in 1992, to bring in the municipal police, so it didn't work. That's not how it works. Every mayor has his own police - America is being painted on Serbia and then we have a jurisdiction zone, and then it takes over someone else, and federal authorities, or republican, will lead investigations when there are murders with two deaths, when it comes to narcotics or something. Secondly, this commendation that the Department of Justice will proceed with a procedure for making a decision on the extradition of citizens charged with serious crimes against... You wrote 15 sentences about why you would hand over citizens to The Hague, and you didn't write anything about how we would defend these citizens in The Hague. You know there's a lot of innocent people out there. It's undeniable that there are criminals there, but criminals there don't need to defend themselves. They're making deals with the D.A.'s office. They're guessing with the D.A. for money, for a reduced sentence, to charge one of those against whom there's no charge at all. Only innocent people don't guess there. They are on trial and they expect some protection from Serbia. As you came to power, the entire teams that provided proof of defence to Serbian citizens were abolished. You've torn it apart in both the military and the police and national security, or today's BIA. There is no longer anyone who dares one piece of paper as evidence to provide the team for the defence of Vojislav Seselj, and in tons of material you gave Carly del Ponte in the hope that in this way your basic, general thesis will be washed - that Serbia committed a war crime and that Serbia must be cleansed, to pass through catharsis, so there are those Serbs who blame them, so let them go to The Hague. We're left clean, we're not even defending the country, and we're going to run the country now. The Justice Ministry is not at all related to The Hague tribunal, not in any way, unless you really think you are beginning to provide Serbia's defence to The Hague tribunal. This is the last minute. You've fallen so far into the eyes of your Western mentors that whenever you're here, it's hard for you. You need to form a government that you need some people who have no ideological resemblance with you to convince them to go with you, and today they release Naser Oric any charges. Look, I don't have anyone over the Drina. They didn't kill anyone in this war, they didn't lead me, they took me, they didn't cut anyone's organs, but I feel like they did. How do you feel when Naser Oric, directly responsible for the death of 2,600 people, is released to The Hague tribunal as a completely innocent and free man? If you have nothing to do with Serbia through Drina, ask. Let's take a field trip, take the buses to Kravica, go to Bratuntz, see the Memorial house with over 2,000 photos of the murdered, slaughtered. These are the elderly and the elderly, the disabled and the children, because all the Serbs were in units in positions, and the villages were at the mercy and mercy of Naser Oric who slaughtered them from night to night until people came here and invited Ratko Mladic and told him: "Save us, for God's sake, these plagues; we are at war all over Republika Srpska, they have killed us here." When are you going to transfer? What's the point of the decision for you? Kosovo and Metohija? It's not. You deceive us, it's not Kosovo and Metohija. You'd like it to go away, as long as it doesn't feel like it's your fault, and that's why you're not comfortable with it, it's unacceptable. Well, I don't like any more, either, it's unacceptable to me, but when they cook it for me, I catch it and eat it. That's how you feel about Kosovo and Metohija, and that's not healthy. That's what you're starting to get sick of. Only, the nation must not suffer from it. To encourage the Ministry of Justice to prepare solutions for the extradition of Serbian citizens to The Hague? How many of these Serbian citizens still have to write in the ministry's description? Well, if there was one, if there was half, you'd write it here. When will it be over for you? When you estimate that the biologically dead are Karadzic and Mladic. Come on, how long do they have to live? Can one of you legislators tell us when you're going to lift this UN tribunal and Serbian documents? When will Karadzic and Mladic die biologically? You know how sick Mladic was and treated for VMA. You know he was walking around Belgrade in your time. Where do you find him now? You think it's safe to extradite him now? We'll see. You can do whatever you want. They usually say what a smart man is ashamed of, that's what a fool is proud of. I wouldn't be proud that the Justice Department will co-operate with The Hague tribunal. And your co-operation began when you took several professors of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade to file charges against Vojislav Seselj. And whenever you talk about justice, about morality, about how you are built as a "yellow company", don't forget, the villain is the one who sent Vojislav Seselj to The Hague. Is his name Zoran Djindjic? He's a villain. Whoever could have left four underage children, two grandkids, one who could have said: "I will never see him again in Serbia." That's not a man, that's an animal. If someone did this to us, I'd say the same thing about him from this pay phone. Whatever you're going through falls into the water in front of that criminal, criminal understanding of your political rivals. You treat us like enemies today. You're wrong because we're not the enemies of Serbia. We only beat you in the election and eat it there. If you could beat us like DS I know, it's just, like when the Emperor Dushan got married and he took him to the weddings (you know that folk song, that no other understanding should be offended) - who was taken by the Emperor Dushan in his marriage? [[tossing out of the O.R.]] That's how you picked up this letter of yours, and now you're as strong as you are. All right, let's do it. Whenever you beat us in the elections and you have more votes as a party, when you have more MPs as a party, I'll admit it. Unlike you, I can admit defeat, and I can carry it. Every radical here can bear defeat and can bear victory. We are proud today of this victory in Belgrade even though you are villains compared to Belgrade. You are harassing the citizens of Belgrade, for three months you have not allowed to form the authority of the one who won. (President: 16 minutes. Tek? You count on it to be your Belgrade. So what if it was? What are you going to brag about? That some people were exposed to a mockery, that you completely embarrassed them, that you led them to be ashamed of everything they've done in the last three months? You're gonna be proud? That's how only one who's raped feels, only one who has some pleasure, and when he thinks how he feels about the one he raped, he doesn't have that man's life. Since you weren't in jail, let me tell you one thing. (President: 17 minutes. Tell me, please, when it's 15 minutes, I've got some work to do in town. (President: It's 17. ) Thank you very much. It says 11 minutes. (President: Eleven and the previous seven used by Natasa Jovanovic's MP is 18 minutes. Don’t count on me what Natasha said, it doesn’t make sense. Here, I'm done, I'm sorry. In prison... (President: National MP Tomislav Nikolic obviously ignored the rule of the Rules of Procedure, which says that the parliamentary group in the debate on amendments has a total of 15 minutes at its disposal. More and more is the obligation of the chairman to warn the speaker that he has exceeded his time in the Rules of Procedure and is violating the Rules of Procedure. Let me just say for these criminals, to see how interesting that is. So, in prison... (President: Since I am obliged to give the notice necessary for the work of the MPs, I suggest you look for a word based on the breach of the Rules of Procedure and thus make it possible for another three minutes for what you want to say. I once said a good word to you, a bad word in an old congregation. She's beautiful, 'not a female, until she's a watermelon' - she's still standing. I still like you, and you can't spoil it by throwing it away. But, let me just say, the biggest criminals in prison, the multiple killer returnees, don't hang out with those who raped. Just so you know. They don't appreciate people like that either.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u875	The MP, evoking memories from the previous call, failed to tell new MPs the introduction to the sentence "Not a female, until it is a watermelon". I said, "We're the same, maybe I'm a little stronger." Please do not abuse the time at your disposal to discuss amendments because it is in everyone's best interest to respect the Rules of Procedure. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Munir Poturak. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u876	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to comment on this amendment submitted by Mr Munir Poturak on behalf of the coalition for European Serbia and the fact that the motioner has accepted this amendment. What is happening with the amendment of Article 8 of this amendment is something similar to what was done with regard to the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, with a proposal for a change, and a return. I don't know what caused the MPs to be distracted by the proposal we received in the proposal for a law on ministries and the amendment tabled by Mr. Poturak. I absolutely respect Mr. Munir Poturk. He was a member of the Committee on Agriculture in the last meeting and we cooperated correctly. However, Mr. Munir Poturak is an economist and certainly couldn't make this proposal and this amendment on his own. So I would like to ask Mr Ratkovic, as a proposing, who has made this proposal for Article 8 in the proposal for a law on ministries, whether it is the Ministry of Agriculture, whether it is a group in the DS, because the fundamental change that has been made in relation to the existing situation that is returning to this amendment is that three administrations within the Ministry of Agriculture are essentially being abolished and the General Inspectorate is being introduced, which has also not been implemented so far. In the explanation, a very dung was given which function and task would be this General Inspectorate. People working in the area of agriculture, especially my fellow veterinarians, when they heard that the Veterinary Administration was abolished, expressed serious dissatisfaction. I was asked to intervene here, even on behalf of the Department of Veterinary, and even one of the State Secretarys of the Ministry of Agriculture did not know of these changes given to us by MPs and the changes within this ministry that are being prepared. It is good that what has been returned is because the Ministry of Agriculture is very heterogeneous and, in order to function, in particular control and enforcement of legislation, it is inevitable that there are certain administrations and certain vertical surveillance, especially today we have very clear requirements from the EU, that in the areas of veterinary medicine, animal production and animal products, this control and control must absolutely be carried out by veterinary experts. So this job must be absolutely under the supervision of the veterinary profession. If this hadn't been changed, we as a state would have serious problems just from the EU, and we would have been cut off very quickly from that approval for the export of beef, milk and everything else. That's good, but it's not clear why someone's been playing around, why we're the ones who need to discuss this got a proposal like this. What I still want to comment on is the establishment of the Inspectorate General. It is not clear why it is established and what purpose and role it will play, because each of these administrations that were have certain inspectors and carry out inspection. It explains: "The establishment of a special General Inspectorate will result in a unique inspection of, otherwise, a very diversified and diverse, agricultural, forestry and water industry." That is why there are these administrations, because the veterinary inspection cannot be carried out by an agronomy engineer, who essentially controls the area of phytosanitary protection in the field of plant protection, or, however, cannot conduct inspection and control in the area of forestry in some other restaurants, for example, in the area of agricultural land. I think this is unnecessary. If I had had the opportunity, if in this proposal you had given us such a solution, that the General Inspectorate was set up, we would surely have submitted the amendment and asked it to change because we really don't see the point. The Ministry of Agriculture, with its inspection, has worked pretty well so far, has produced good results. The fact that we have become and become an increasingly significant factor in the exporting of agricultural products and the fact that significant foreign exchange revenues are being made is that the inspection bodies are functioning. I think the creation of one of these is the General Inspectorate, where all inspections will now be agreed under one cap, a total failure, and that will lead to anarchy. Especially now that these changes that have been accepted remain administrations as parts of the ministry. Then what will the administration do if there are no inspections within the administration? Think carefully about whether this solution is right and how it will ultimately work. In particular, it is not clear to me that people who have worked in the Ministry of Agriculture for several or even a few years did not know about these changes and proposals. I don't think it's a good thing that some fundamental changes to certain laws are being made in the promotion of the new government, and that people working in that ministry and people from the profession are not being informed, they haven't even given their opinion and they don't give consent to such a thing. I wouldn't be long. I now express my personal position because I do not have the position of our party, but I accept this amendment submitted by Mr. Munir Poturak. I think he's okay and he's gonna fix this proposal that you made as an initial under the Ministry Law Proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u877	Does anyone else want a word on the amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u878	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my party colleague Zoran Masic has quite plastically explained what problems are related to agriculture, but it must be said that it is evident how much, during the election campaign, DS Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic promised and how much he then gave to the villagers to vote for DS. What you... Sir, if you'd like to come out later, and talk to this pay phone, don't interrupt me. It seems to me that the position of the SRS was correct when he sought medical records from every MP. On your case, it was supposed to be done. Dear MPs and citizens of Serbia, it is evident that those promises related to subsidies in the election campaign have not been met. They probably think that now the new ministries from the new budget, once the budget is revitalised, will allow those lies and promises to be fulfilled. I believe, and I believe, that the peasants in the previous period, especially in the spring sowing, were deceived. Because there was no subsidy, so to speak. We now see that those subsidies you promised them have ceased, which is 100 euros per sown area, or 90 euros per drowned June. It doesn't work anymore either, because it worked until May 30th. Therefore, dear MPs and dear citizens of Serbia, the Dosmanian government has deceived us this time as it has always been. I will not enter the dialogue concerning your coalition partners, but I believe that Mr. Zarko Obradovic, who is probably listening to me now, who has spoken in previous assembly sessions about the great abuses in privatising certain large gigans throughout Serbia, is likely to initiate this time that the culprits are being punished. As we can see, the Privatisation Committee has the biggest criminal in Serbia today, which is Aleksandar Vlahovic. You know how much he did as a privatisation minister and how much he robbed Serbia. I see that sometimes you can react loudly when it comes to the fact that Zoran Djindjic's policy was criminal, but it seems to continue. It was continued by Boris Tadic and DS. It was probably meant to form a new Ministry of Corruption and Crime, but I can see it's not among these 24 ministries, it's not formed. We know well that everyone in the election campaign has promised, and especially you, Democrats of the Democratic Party and the G17, to fight corruption, but I don't know who you should arrest. Well, you're on your own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u879	The word is from Ambassador Munir Traturak.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u880	Dear fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, I just wanted to express my intention as a submission to this amendment. I respect Professor Zoran Mašić, who is otherwise the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, and he was also in the previous meeting, but I cannot essentially agree that this is without consulting people who know this issue. The intention above all is to achieve what is to be achieved through the General Inspectorate what is to be achieved in Serbia for the competitiveness of agriculture, for the funds expected from European funds, through the European laws to be translated, for standardisation and all that is ahead for us to improve the agricultural picture in Serbia. This is the possibility of keeping administrations as they are and improving their quality, and that, on the other hand, they try to impose one security on the General Inspectorate in what they do on the professional side and what they are trying to do on the ground somewhere. And we know what happened in previous periods, that despite these subsidies, premiums and donations, which tried to help people as much as they did, they often came across abuses and intricacies. Since it is important that the only inflow, income in the Republic of Serbia's budget came from agriculture, from our agricultural products, has been given an emphasis through the General Inspectorate and on what was good in the previous ministry through the administration. That was the whole point of this amendment. I hope this amendment will make it possible to improve the work of the Ministry of Agriculture and Professional Bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u881	The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u882	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would only like to rephrase Mr. Poturk with a few words. I don't think the explanation he gave here for the establishment of the Inspectorate General is absolutely standing. What is true is that the Ministry of Agriculture in the previous four years, as far as I am an MP in this House, has done almost nothing or done very little of what is certainly important, which should have been done to achieve the right for the EU's accession funds to follow when we ratify this agreement, when Mr Brammertz gives a positive opinion that you who will lead the government are co-operating with The Hague tribunal and when ratified in the parliaments of all European states of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Then we will be a country that is in the period of accession and is already becoming an associated member of the European Union, and then as a country we will have the right to access funds. But in order to exercise the right to access funds, we must make laws. In the past four years, the agriculture ministry has sent only six agricultural laws to this parliament. With European Union regulations, the least harmonised area of economy in this country is agriculture. The past year has passed and the Ministry of Agriculture has not sent this assembly any draft amendments to the law, let alone some new law. So in order to exercise the right to use these access funds, we need to bring our legislation into line, bring in very important and important laws such as the law on food safety, the law on agriculture, the animal welfare, the law on the protection of plants and a whole series of other laws. But the General Inspectorate has nothing to do with the law. He needs to coordinate the work of inspection services. But I said, what kind of coordination can be established with some 600 or 700 inspectors within the General Inspectorate if the veterinary inspectors are around 350-370, the other inspectors have at least 200, so let's say 550, how to collect them all? Because, again, in the field of veterinary medicine, no one to the doctor of veterinary medicine can control it, means graduated veterinarians, as well as other experts in other areas. I don't see the meaning of coordination but only that someone is promoting themselves for such a place and that I don't know what kind of surveillance there is, but objectively, if the administrations already exist, then the administrations should be within which there will be inspection bodies to carry out inspections in the framework of agriculture. When we discuss the exposé of the new prime minister, I will certainly do my best and hope to have time to comment on what this ministry has done on behalf of the parliamentary group. I will be particularly interested, and I think our public will be interested in what will be proposed for the area of agriculture in the next four years. I think our agricultural producers from this country are expecting much better conditions in the area of agriculture. First of all, the larger credit fund, the greater incentives and the stabilisation of the agricultural products market. The internal market, because we have these significant variations. Here, only if we take the price of the wheat, as it's now moving, until two or three weeks ago was over 20 dinars and now it's being redeemed for 15-16 dinars, and the growing dissatisfaction is being created by agricultural producers. Since I volunteered for the replica, I thank the chairman for letting me speak longer than the Rules of Procedure allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u883	On the title above Articles 9 and 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u884	And the amendment that I submitted today on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group concerns the jurisdiction of the said ministry as well as my colleague Igor Bečić, who is absent for legitimate reasons, so I am taking the opportunity to add a few more words of reasons why we are against this definition of the power of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. So, it is not a surplus to repeat that this ministry is defined as a ministry run by a superhuman, because a man of normal abilities, even above average, is not able to cover this much work and coordinate it in the right way, except in the case of Mr Dinkic, who is guided by ambitions that can't really be classified as appropriate by who is intended to run one body of state administration in the interests of citizens. As much as there is evidence for this claim, so much, I'm convinced, will be court proceedings at the time when the judiciary doesn't work under pressure. Mr Dinkic threatened judges who are doing their job, primarily saying they are making strange decisions, and then by re-election that should result in obedience. A man's express intention to truly qualify as more powerful than the most powerful, as I said today, testifys May last year when Mr Dinkic, as one of the conditions for forming a government, had an unencumbered desire to hold absolutely all financial and economic flows in the country through his own control, through his loyal people. The proof that these are people who can deal with all the jobs is that the team headed by Mrs. Vesna Ginić traveled from the Treasury today to the Privatisation Agency, one hundred times, I will repeat that it is the agency that has the largest money, or the resources of citizens coming from the privatisation process, Mrs. Vesna Arsic, those who are exposed to the court of public, but the team that works in the interest of those behind the curtain, and only occasionally find themselves in front of the court of the public, and I expect them to meet the judicial authorities. Two people who combine a whole series of abuses for which such powers should not be allowed are (because of the arguments and evidence we have, I openly appoint them by their last name and name) Mr Nikola Zivanovic and Nik Djindjic. Two close associates, one of whom Mr. Nikola Zivanovic was a vice governor at the National Bank, who he later declared not to know, who was one of the first people to prepare the liquidation of the banking system at the place of one of the key people in the Belgrade Bank. The post office, to the abuse of time and abuse of market shares, was carried out precisely with the consent of Mr. Mladjan Dinkic and Nikola Zivanovic, in co-operation and with the help of the house "Sinerji Capital". So, someone who promotes our authority to run a business, the overall economy, to credit and finance development projects, qualified one of the biggest robberies (National Savings), but also someone who still spends the citizens' budget on covering the thefts achieved under the skillful rod of the bankruptcy mafia in which there was also a significant participation in the Post Office Savings. Someone who qualify here as a job description to do credit, on the other hand, spends people's money to capitalize the Postage Savings. When we adopted the budget last year, we singled out huge budgets to cover losses created by the abuse of postage savings. Another part of the funds is directed to the Commercial Bank, but that part is to mate at the value of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Respected citizens, this is done at the time when it is announced that the money for subsidized housing loans has been spent and when it is recognised that only 315 million foreign deposits are left with billions of inflows of money from the sale of state and social enterprises and banks. At such a time, a top expert, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, is overrun by the budget, decisions made by former coalition partners, and this is no longer a cause for doubt but a bad experience, that he will continue to work with you as well. So, as the proceedings are being prepared for the bankruptcy mafia, which has done a good part of the job through the Post Office, and while there are no funds for the development and financing of domestic production, while there is no means to finance regular state affairs, Mr. Expert with his expert team deployed at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and in the National Bank, mainly because from here begins, there ends what the people see, and what is not seen today will one day be seen in foreign foreign exchange accounts. The way Mr. Dinkic does it is to throw a little bit of dust in the eyes of the public and probably some grain or some crumb to his coalition partners because he managed to spell himself out as an expert who knows how to do anything from nothing. That magic illusion can't be sold to citizens and I'm obliged to tell you. The biggest loss created in the National Bank is the trade of securities with foreign banks, Mr Dinkic elaborated on the experience in 1991. I guess it's also that merger stone where the earlier experience is passed on to a new financial expert. He very cleverly told the story in the book (started with Karic Bank, continued with Jugoscan and Dafiment Bank) as he questioned whether the people had a devisor hidden in the straws. They left with three times the interest. So, authorities, the state decides to offer high interest citizens to probe or examine the market through a selected bank (then Karic, later mentioned). While regular interest in banks is 10%, the private selected bank gives 40%. People take foreign exchanges and sell to get interest. It was the basis for pyramidal banks, but at some difficult time sanctions and high pressures turned into abuse of individuals. But it is a history from which the science has drawn Mr Dinkic and today applies him – not to Karic, Dafiment and Jugoscank Bank, but to the National Bank of Serbia. So, the National Bank of Serbia artificially, by political decision, creates the value of the dinar and the value of the course and the reference interest rate. Dear citizens, while you're in charge of foreign banks at 8-16% interest and for that you have to give guarantees, mortgages on the apartment you're just buying, during that time foreign banks from their central banks are importing foreign exchanges on which the governor doesn't charge them a mandatory reserve. It lets them use the maximum amount of those funds to buy state securities of value. Imagine what a safe job he's bringing strangers into. He says, not to fund citizens, not to burden you with a mandatory reserve, but to buy from a state that guarantees that within 30 days (there are 30, 60 and 90 deadlines) you will come to the state as the safest pay, that you do not receive a workforce that assesses what your business plan is, in which business you invest. So, that foreign bank doesn't hire our young people as they're told, that they're studying the creditworthiness of the lender, but three people in the Reop department go and buy from the National Bank records, sleeps peacefully for a month, comes after a month and collects, next to the principal, 15.75% interest. Pay three salaries to girls who sit in glass offices in short and attractive skirts, where they have to give up families, Saturdays and weeks, that they can't even button button or unbutton without someone on the side, means in very inhumane conditions. Three payments are paid, but due to the interest of 15.75%. On only three shows that arrived last month, 110m euros, I repeat and responsibly argue, on only three such records, the National Bank paid the foreign banks 110m euros. It's something that's going to have to be covered from the budget. It's one month. The most interesting thing is that on the day of arrival, the course fell to 78.7 dinars. So, not only did they make money at the interest rate reference rate, they're going to make money for the dinars now paid by the National Bank buys the euro at 78.7 dinars. Dear citizens, when you get credits and payments, usually at the end of the month, the course rises. I repeat, the analysis in the book 'Economics of Destruction', which was then conducted by selected and private banks, is being conducted today by a financial mafia that is expanding as an octopus from the National Bank through the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, the Agency for the Promotion of Exports, the Privatisation Agency and the Agency for Rehabilitation, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, and today it is called the Deposit Insurance Agency. It's the expertise and mental blindness and mental sloth that I warn those who support these and these experts. That's what Mr. Nick Giovanni, a technician called the "mafia in white collars" taught them, which is evidence. People who did the tiniest operations abroad, so-called. 'Cornners', the least complex securities deals, are played by experts here because the data is classified. Which banks you can't find out because the store is online, the card and only two computers know that, but the data on the losses and the damages are evident, material and will fall on our cargo. It's in this man's job description. It is this red line DOS plus to which Mr Dinkic (don't underestimate him and don't overestimate him), as an exponent of the World-level mafia and as a representative of the elite who refuses to serve his people but works on his damages, promoted to a man who has almost an entire budget of the Republic of Serbia – to honor you, citizens to harm you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u885	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u886	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 5 which speaks of this famous Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. It is, in fact, a monopoly of Mladjan Dinkic in Serbia and that I am just relying on this story by Mr. Jorvanka Tabakovic and that with some concrete examples from my surroundings I am illustrating. This on the macroeconomic plan, you saw, is part of a world mafia. It's not some conspiracy, but it's really people who are connected, who know very well what they're doing and who are trained to do this job on the financial market, and every day it has an ever-increasing certificate. Last night, just as Mrs Tabakovic is likely, on one TV, I followed the presentation of the former deputy governor of the National Bank of Serbia. It even goes a step further, favouring a different monetary policy, i.e. that it should be abolished and Serbia should move immediately to the euro, so we should do the same as this separatist brotherhood in Montenegro. However, we not only need to strengthen the stability of the domestic currency through those normal and well-known economic mechanisms advocated by economists who want a healthy Serbian economy, but from this proposal, a description and a part-round of the work of Mladjan Dinkic we see that it will simply not be possible. In Serbia, everyone will get worse from day to day. What I should be talking about, which is the stance of the 5th member who regulates what all this great boss of Serbia Mladjan Dinkic should put under his paw, among other things is a policy concerning work and employment. To make the irony bigger, it is described here very nicely what the ministry should do, well, among other things, to take care of the employment policy both in the country and abroad, to allow citizens of Serbia, of course, age and different qualifications, to find work abroad, to requalify (imaginate this cynicism) those who have lost their jobs, and it is precisely Mladjan Dinkic who in Kragujevac has single-determined those people on the street. You know what that famous Employment and Education Service is, ZO Zastafyn? Who founded it? Team Vlahovic, Djelic and Dinkic. Who canceled it? Mladjan Dinkic, last year. How did he deal with all the other workers in the metal complex? How did he deal with disabled workers? Is there a factory, and there's a colleague of Mr Zivanovic from Sapac, so anyone I look at, on any side, are Serbian radicals or colleagues from the SPS, and you're yellow, too, to ask if you've been taking care of disabled workers and if there are any protective workshops for disabled workers? They are not in Kragujevac, nor in the factory of dedicated products, nor in the car factory. Will they be with the arrival of Fiat? I doubt it, and it's all on a long stick. And then, the data that is very accurate (nothing Serbian radicals speak in their minds) is more than devastating. General Delic, as well as my smallness, as well as the vice-president of the Assembly, we get regular periodic, monthly reports from the Republic Bureau of Statistics (he is paid out of the budget, let's start from having relatively accurate data) and when you look at the job description of Mladjan Dinkic and when you see, and that is the official statement of the Republic's authority, how the employment of those who allegedly work abroad has moved, it is a disaster. If we say, and this is true and it was a key part of our economic programme in the election campaign, that the construction operation and that Serbian builders (it will be agreed by Mr Mrkonjic, and Mr Obradovic from the DSS, we do not only advocate it) are truly celebrated in their work throughout the world, look, please, what it looks like today. Of course, this isn't true. It's exactly based on the data that the Republic Statistics Institute has, but reality is completely different. Why? Because Mladjan Dinkic doesn't do the job he was given here. He didn't do it, he won't do it. Nor has the Ministry of Labour and Employment done so before, whose original work is supposed to be. And that's why I submitted that amendment. See what is said, for example, as a data for the Russian Federation – only 422,933 working hours in the area of construction operation in so many countries, i.e. the average number of workers from the Republic of Serbia is 203 workers. Then you can see that Dinkic and the Serbian government almost sent no one to the Russian Federation to work. And you know, you have so many cousins and friends or you hear there are thousands of Serbs out there. Only the Uzice Roads company has about 1,500 workers working on big jobs and projects in Russia towards Sochi, not to mention other private firms (an equally well-known company from Leskovec, so on). You see, then, that the state doesn't do anything that, in collaboration with our friendly countries, who are calling for our staff, they get a secure job, they go across our country, in that sense, as it stands here, they're Social Security. These people are on their own. I, here, know, on the case of this one gentleman, and even this gentleman, I don't know his name, from the Ways of Uzice, maybe one of you knows his name and last name, he drags all the people out of his neighborhood, and if he leaves the house, both father and sons. What about employees in the same jobs in Montenegro is best known to you who live near Brodarev and how many problems our people have these days with whose ID card has expired, so they wait for a ID card, and they need to move to Montenegro because they are engaged in business with Russian investors who bought certain houses there, i.e. villas or something else, and now they need to come to Serbian masters, who are the best. See how many hours it is – just a few hundred thousand hours of work, and how many workers are leaving Serbia to Montenegro – 719. I think now, at this point, there are at least 500 in Sutomor, not to say 1,000, and in Budva, who knows how many. The state registered 719, so many sent by the younger ones, i.e. the state provided them with and guaranteed social security, and that the work would be recorded in their work book. That's how it's supposed to be. In these friendly countries where Mrs Dejanovic's colleagues used to go, in Libya, and then in other Middle Eastern, Far East countries, you look, so that's funny -- two, three, five employees. And then you boast about how we have no idea how many personnel and experts all over the world. That's sad. When it comes to internal employment, is the trend increasing unemployment compared to 2005? Of course not. Has the number of unemployed decreased? It's not. We have a fantastic one, I would say scientifically fantastic, the story of the current Mayor of Kragujevac Veroljub Stevanović. It's a shame he's not here, they say he's in parliament to be able to respond to what they say when his name is mentioned. A man in a city where there are nearly 40,000 unemployed, where his friend Dinkic, by decree, has abolished people's ability to requalified those people, who have now received this one by principle "take or leave" a miserable severance, will not be able to return and compete, work in the new automotive industry, if it comes at all. And the question is how many people will be employed there because you know the trend in the world's automotive industry. Where production is completely robotized, Mr. Markovic is trying to make it really nice, he's playing robot, but there's only one car unit on the table, so let's do three here, so recalculate, and we know what real capacities are. That's terrible. And then we come back to that story where it's all spent money, and it's all going through the agency to find a job. Imagine how far their insolence has gone, here's the general and I have found the amount in the budget for this year. Who did they get a job for, who did they help? To go back to this mentioned Stevanovic. He says: 6,000-7,000 people were employed in Kragujevac last year (a story of some amazing figures). Yes, in his imagination. And you know very well, here is Mr. Rogovic, so everyone else who is private, private entrepreneurs, to report someone and he works for a while at your place, but then he doesn't. That's the kind of guy that's got to register at the labor desk, right? Or you have fluctuations, of course. Today, a girl or a young woman works in an independent trade shop, and if she's lucky to be reported, because they are now such rigorous punishments, of course, for those who are local G17 favorites and the yellow ones and the penalties are valid, but if she's lucky, after a few months the boss tells her -- there's no more work here for you, I'm having a bit of traffic, and she's going across town looking for a job elsewhere. And it's a registered employee and it goes into that fantastic figure he's talking about. There's no time, really not if it was a little 15 minutes, for hours we could only talk about these reports of the Republic Statistics Office, but look how devastating the situation is right now. Here, it's been six months in 2008, they're chasing, they're coming together, they're going to tycoon government at the will of the West. And you think something's gonna change? This is devastating. We're talking about how hungry people are, how unemployed people are. So if their record is that it's something over 800,000 people, and we're saying that there are at least 200,000 people who aren't registered as unemployed, they're not motivated, and even because they don't have that health book, but look, when they think about bringing in two witnesses to get a certified health book, who knows how many tens of thousands remain demotive and doesn't do it either. See how the situation moves in the first half of 2008. This is the result of how the average citizen of Serbia lives. No Dinkic, not the other thieves and tycoons, they have whatever they want and every day they grab and live like lords. The average citizen of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, must spend 39.9% of his earnings on food, if he has any profits. Out of total income, regular income for one household is 53.2%. And you know what goes in with 29.8% -- here, there's the pensioners. It goes into the total budget of a household. So it is said that there are situations, unfortunately, that pensioners support their children, children who have lost their jobs, and grandchildren, and they themselves cannot survive these pensions. How much is left out on the apartment, water, electricity, gas and other fuels? About 17%. Because people first have to survive and buy such expensive food. You're talking about how our youth should be educated and educated. Well, of course you should. We have, and I say, the best talent spenders in all the cities of Serbia in various areas. But here, this inexorable statistic suggests that only 1.9% can be isolated from the home budget. Mladjan Dinkic is making himself a ski centre, he's throwing himself off as he wants, in a drunken billionaire's manner, you know what these kids say -- "there's something you can do," and for recreation and sport, the average Serbian household is being singled out, here, it says, "poor 0.8%." If you want to monitor cultural and sporting events, it's somewhere below 2%. Where are we? We are in a society where the mafia, the powerful and now through the institutions of the system, through various agencies, this ministry pulls together the production of such drones and pests. So, a few thousand, or let's say how many there are, and that 10,000 or 20,000 of them live like lords, like kidneys in the loins, and the citizens are suffering and they're getting worse and worse. Why? Because here, for half a year, Professor Masic knows how much the area is not sown, I don't have time to read it, but it's a devastating data here, several hundred thousand hectares of arable surface, and when you look at all this and when you look at this balance, how much was produced and how much was exports, it's the difference of 40 billion euros that Mrs Tabakovic and Mr Todorovic both spoke of. We are a land where, without fundamental changes, it is obvious that it can bring them only, and it will bring them, the SRS, no help and no movement.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u887	Thank you. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Mladenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u888	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am submitting an amendment to the proposal for a law on ministries, and I demand that the word "nuclear" be deleted in article 10. Article 10 states: "The Ministry of Mining and Energy does the tasks of state administration relating to: mining; energy; energy balance of the Republic of Serbia; oil and gas economy; safe pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons; nuclear power plants whose purpose is to produce electricity and heat, production, use and disposal of radioactive materials in these facilities... "I ask that the word "nuclear" be deleted because the construction of nuclear power plants is not in line with Serbia's energy development, and the construction of the same could result in inconspicuous long-term effects on the environment in the event of possible haematisms. The constitutional basis for the submission of this amendment to the Proposal for a Law on Ministries is set out in the provisions of Article 74. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which everyone has the right to a healthy environment and to a timely and complete notification of its condition. In achieving that right, the Republic of Serbia, or an autonomous province, is responsible for protecting the environment. At the same time, everyone is obliged to protect and improve the environment. The proposed Article 10 of the Law is contrary and contradictory to Article 74. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed amendment shall ensure that the constitutional provisions laid down in Article 74 are met. In view of the already mentioned potential inconspicuous long-term consequences of possible incidents and handicrafts on nuclear installations on the environment and human health, which could result in the authorisation of the Ministry of Mining and Energy to have nuclear power plants in its jurisdiction, which are intended to produce electricity or heat, production, use and disposal of radioactive materials in those facilities, is in direct conflict with the provisions of Article 74. A constitution guaranteeing that everyone has the right to a healthy environment and that the Republic of Serbia is responsible for protecting the environment. By empowering the state administration authority to have nuclear power plants directly endangers the constitutional responsibility of the Republic of Serbia. As a graduate spatial planner, I must point out that the construction of nuclear plants for the production of electricity and heat is not foreseen by the Law on the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, which does not provide for a possible location for the construction of a nuclear power plant. The construction of a nuclear power plant is not envisaged by Serbia's Energy Development Strategy until 2015, or the Energy Development Strategy Programme by 2012. The construction of nuclear plants for the production of electricity and heat is not defined by the Energy Act. The proposed amendment deletes the proposed competences of the Ministry of Mining and Energy with regard to the construction, management and use of nuclear power plants. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this amendment is estimated to shift the funds needed to build a four billion-euro nuclear power plant for other purposes. Since the Republic of Serbia does not have these resources, apart from foreign credits, it is possible for the potential credit responsibility to be directed into other environmentally acceptable types of energy generation from a smaller ecological risk, ways of producing renewable energy (small hydropower plants, solar energy, wind energy, etc.).). The current climate, whether Serbia needs a nuclear power plant, is the result of an energy deficit both in our country and in the region. In particular, the polemics will continue at the beginning of the second decade of the 21st century, i.e. in 2011 and 2012, which will be a particularly critical period. Nevertheless, the professional public is against the construction of nuclear power plants. Many of our experts in this area plead against construction and are determined against building them. So in short lines, I'd like to state five more basic reasons why I'm up against building nuclear power plants. First, there is a legal limit for the construction of nuclear plants, which is previously mentioned. Second, developed countries, primarily the United States and individual countries of the European Union, usurp other people's rights to life, roughly - to clean air, to consume inappropriate fossil fuels and polluting the atmosphere. They ask us, much poorer, to move on to nuclear energy to allow them to continue living in abundance. By tying us to nuclear debts, they intend to force us to open up nuclear waste dumps in our countries with which they themselves don't know what to do. It's a new kind of technical colonization and another attempt by the largest polluters of the planet, above all the United States, to build nukes through us and continue to use fossil fuels, to make us nuclearally dirty and, of course, make a lot of money through their own interesting lobbies. Third, the orientation of Serbia's Elektroprivreda is coal, i.e. lignite, i.e. lignite reserves are the main source of energy by 2030. Fourth, the threat of possible attacks by various terrorist organizations. Fifthly, the disposal of radioactive materials in these facilities during NATO bombings, i.e. we have seen the consequences that are still expressed today from uranium and other radioactive materials. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I therefore propose that the word "nuclear" be deleted, because it stands only in the interest of nuclear energy-interest lobbys and at least in the interest of Serbian citizens. The adoption of this amendment allows the possible inconspicuous effects on the environment and on the health of people and citizens of Serbia to be prevented. It is therefore necessary to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u889	Thank you. He has the word of a colleague, Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u890	Ladies and gentlemen, I see that the government, or DS, has not given up these ideas about nuclear energy. And in the election campaign there was speculation about it, so even Gilas signed some sort of memorandum, etc., well, he says - I didn't know it wasn't in line with the law. I think governments have already brought a memorandum before you that nuclear energy is unacceptable to Serbia. Given the price of a nuclear power plant, knowing that we don't have the money, I'm asking you, who are you going to make it for? I guarantee you that those kilowatts, produced by nuclear energy in Serbia, Serbia, will either pay dearly, or they will be made for someone else, who also needs energy, but needs a healthy environment. We're just making money so we don't have anything to do with it. So, we're going to work for another, we're going to jeopardize our health, our country, our own air, our own water -- for someone else, and it seems to me to be good commissions, as soon as this is at a small door, through the ministry law, you're trying to get through. There's one more thing I'd like to say. I have to deny my colleague. The official plan for the deployment of nuclear plants in Serbia -- it is true that it does not exist. Off the record - I know you're planning to set up a nuclear power plant in Kostolc. Don't joke about it. I guarantee you this job will be nothing. Enough with the Kostolites and the thermal power plants, and the ashes, and the spears, and that they have polluted water and air. Now they need a nuclear power plant? Don't play with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u891	Thank you. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u892	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, I have come out only to support what the SRS MP Mr Bojan Mladenovic said. He cited all the relevant reasons why there is absolutely no room for this word in this bill. I'd just like to remind you of some medical reasons that suggest we don't engage in this adventure. You know we have an increased number of cancer patients in Serbia, and this has increased significantly since the time of NATO aggression. You know this country has been thrown into poor uranium, and it's probably one of the reasons that led to an increased disease. I also need to draw your attention to knowing what's going on with these facilities in the surrounding countries. It almost happened in Slovenia that nuclear fuel leaks from the reactors and that certain people were irradiated. You know, there was a problem in Bulgaria, too, not to talk about Chernobyl. We said that we have hydroenergy potentials, that there are large deposits of lignite in our Kosovo and Metohija, and these are energy sources, besides the gas that can also serve to produce electricity, which and how, to an extent enough, can satisfy our electricity needs in an economically justified way. It really bothers me that none of the authorized representatives here will come out to defend this attitude he wrote down in the law, to challenge us, to prove us wrong or to simply come out and say that this objection is being adopted. Please, our legal regulations at this point do not allow the construction of a power plant. Our legal system must be unique, why do you violate the uniqueness of our legal system? Not to mention all the other problems that arise from this. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u893	Thank you. Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u894	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Paja Momchilov, MP, is right when he says our legislation does not foresee and does not allow the construction of nuclear plants. That is why I want to clarify the provision in the proposal for a law on ministries in Article 10. When said - nuclear power plants, etc., this is not about construction, not about construction, but about research projects and co-operation with other countries that have built facilities. So it's not about building nuclear power plants, it's just about research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u895	The word is Mr. Momchilov, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u896	The legislator writes laws and legal provisions. He needs to be precise and clear, you know that, so there's no confusion. Nuclear power plants are the ones that produce energy -- if you look at the definition, you'll see that it is -- and there are nuclear reactors that can be applied to research. So the power plant is not a reactor that serves scientific purposes. You have to be absolutely accurate and clear. You should have consulted the experts, so there wouldn't be a dilemma. So nuclear facilities for research purposes. I don't want to tell you again what's the problem with North Korea, with Iran, where they claim to have reactors used for scientific purposes, and they're honored to actually build an atomic bomb. It's a special problem. I want to warn you that we in the country have one single nuclear reactor, in Vinci, which serves for scientific purposes, and we do not need that reactor, other than that reactor, these capacities, absolutely no more. We had a recent atomic bomb in downtown Belgrade and that waste was moved to a warehouse in Vinci a month ago. Let me tell you one more piece of information, that there's been an swelling of radioactive waste in Vinci and that employees have signaled to the public that there's a danger. Thus, it absolutely does not say that nuclear power plants are scientific research reactors. Write it here clearly, so there won't be any problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u897	Just let me give you the information. In agreement with the presidents of the parliamentary groups, we have estimated that today's work to this term has been quite intense. It's Friday, it's not a regular day, but we've started a debate on this agenda point, it's necessary to end it, and I'm scheduled to continue work tomorrow at 1:00. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I would ask you to consider, we had a gentlemen's agreement in the previous term. The congregation worked until 10:00 p.m. I think we should respect that in this term. There's no reason to rush, they were rushing before you and you see how far they got, so I suggest you go a little slower, maybe you'll get on with it. In the future, count on the SRS to work until 10:00. It is the time when you will have to, and because of your MPs and also because of ours, to stop the work. Among other things, many of you need to take order in front of the American Embassy, you're going to celebrate tomorrow. So we did this for you too.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-07-03-0.u899	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. I ask the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to attend the Committee's meetings today at 1200 hours in the Blue Salon for the purpose of establishing. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF MINISTRATIVES (resuming in particular) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Babic, please.
