ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3472	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, is in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for this session to be attended by Mr. Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Mr. Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Personality Data (common principled search with 3.4.10 and 11th point and a single search with the 2nd point of the agenda) The violation of the Rules of Procedure was pointed out by MPs: Cedomir Jovanovic and Zoran Ostojić. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3473	Madam Vice-President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, until this Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic Assembly is reformed, we will have to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure as the only way to get to this assembly address we use to restore life to the Assembly. Our hall is underground, but this session can't turn into a Kustur's film "Andersgrund". Here by the parliamentary benches, look at the headlines of today's daily newspaper, see what the first news in the state's programs looks like, on TV stations of private owners – you will see that the only issue this country is dealing with is the economic situation. Yesterday, at our consultations, we asked the President of the Assembly not to ignore the problems that rock our society and enable debate here in Parliament, not with the ambition to condemn anyone, but with the ambition that with the most responsible people for economic policy in this country and the state in which the country is defined measures that will overcome the crisis that is obvious. Here as an example I can show you, Madam Vice-President, that's why I called for a word, asking you to inform the President of the Assembly that she is able to call the Finance Committee unless she wants to do so by the chairman of the Committee or they do not want the members of the Finance Committee to do so unless the government wants to do so – yesterday the values on the Belgrade Stock Exchange are disastrously down. The state bank, the Commercial Bank yesterday had the lowest price of its stock of 29,000 dinars. When that bank did the recapitalisation, it sold shares for 110,000. A year ago, on today, the value of this action was 130,000. We can't ignore the fact that at this point our banking system is shaking, that it's jeopardizing business in the economy and that it's rocking our population. We have to respond to something like that systemically. That answer cannot be given as MPs, only we as MPs, but there must be an atmosphere here in Parliament that is characteristic of every serious Parliament. Here we also need Prime Minister Cvetkovic and Finance Minister, who, as if it does not exist, I mean Mrs Dragutinovic, here we need the director of the Belgrade Stock Exchange, Mrs Dolenic, and we need the director of the Committee on Securities of Mr. Štimac, we need the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mr. Jelasic, because together we need to define the way this society will behave and treat the crisis that is obvious. We can't go over it anymore and keep quiet about it. This initiative is not driven by the intention of spreading panic in the country, but by preventing those problems that are obvious, which people face every day. We received letters and phone calls from people who went to the banks to raise their savings, so they couldn't get more than 500 euros. We don't need the verse and the avalanche we've been facing in the 1990s, and that's why we have to seriously answer the crisis. I ask you to make an appointment, this is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, so she can do the same, the Finance Committee, and bring in those who ignore Parliament here. Mr. Jelasic must answer where the country's foreign reserves are located, where there is money collected as a mandatory reserve of banks, he must explain to us why such a low level of security of savings deposits is so low and that together with us he raises that level of insurance, in order to restore confidence in our banking system. If we don't do it today, then we'll talk about this problem when the financial system in this country collapses, and that's what we don't want to happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3474	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure and the procedure by which the meetings of the Board are defined has not been damaged. The President of the National Assembly shall convene constitutive committee sessions and may convene sessions on special occasions, when no one else is able to or will not do so. The meeting of the Committee may be convened by the chair or chair of the Committee on Finance, as well as by any other committee, or by the members of the Committee shall submit a request for a meeting. Your proposal behind the speaker has been sent for a future session, which will eventually be convened, but no procedures have been broken so far. The word is made by MP Zoran Ostojic, then Slobodan Maras, then Cedomir Jovanovic, pointing out the injuries of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3475	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, I'm reporting for an article. 225th and 226, requesting notice. In the past few days, the dinar has dropped almost 8%, likely to be 10 by the end of the week. This has cost hundreds of thousands of people in this country who are paying loans to a more expensive war, and they have not been increased in income. The newspapers are filled with the p-ar service of banks that speak, in recent days, as banks are safe, as savings shouldn't be afraid etc. It is clear that the global financial system crisis has knocked on Serbia's door, but we do not see the government's reaction. It all came down to Minister Dinkic's explanations that banks are safe. But according to what people experience in banks, it is not so. That's why we're looking for an emergency state response, because not only is private property threatened here, but the financial system of the state, because if you lose trust in banks, you lose trust in money, and money is the flow of every economy. That is why we ask Governor Jelasic to say where Serbia's foreign reserves are located, where he placed them, because it is his discretionary right, and where there is money stored as a mandatory reserve. That's a very important question, because from the plasma, which is obviously a secret at this point, and we don't have the Data Classification Act yet to know what the secret is, depends on the speed of the return of these foreign exchanges to the country. The country's foreign exchange rate depends on the country's internal liquidity. This is a very important issue for which the Parliament, if not already the Government, has to deal with, and therefore indeed, the heads of the government, the finance minister, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, would have to appear in the Assembly, at least on the Finance Committee. So, where are the foreign reserves? What's going on with liquidity? Is the decline in bank liquidity due to the failure or reduction of crossborder loans, which the domestic banks of foreign names withdrew from abroad because the liquidity was reduced there? All of this must be searched and some measures must be taken urgently, as citizens' mistrust in the banking system is a failure for the state. Once again, we urge Governor Jelasic to say how quickly foreign reserves can be withdrawn to stabilise the liquidity of banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3476	National MP, you have received the word under Article 100, which obliges the chairman to say that for the observed violation of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. violation of procedure – which question is asked on the basis of Article. 225 and 226 are not, since they are members of the rights and duties of MPs and are not concerned with the procedure of the sitting or the violation of the right. The usual atmosphere in the Assembly is that, however, you get the word for a kind of violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please, as usual, for any MP who, under Article 225, explains that he needs this information for today's session, that a stenogram of the MP's presentation is delivered in this case to the National Bank of Serbia and that the response is provided within the prescribed time limit to both the People's Parliament and the Serbian Parliament. National MP Zoran Krasic asks: 'Is the state going to exist by then?- I'm sorry. '"It will, this country will exist and progress and be better and better. People's MP, Free Maras. [[Applause]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3477	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 100, and for the violation of Article 42. Rules of Procedure. I will read it, and I ask that you do not count on me this time – ''In the course of the term of office of a member of the board, on the proposal of a parliamentary group, the National Assembly may relieve a member of the committee from the order of members of that parliamentary group before the end of his term of office and choose a new board member. The National Assembly shall decide on the resolution and selection of a new member of the committee at the first next session following the submission of a proposal from the parliamentary group. Madam Chairman, I want to tell you that for days, here, we have been listening to the opposition obstruct. Obstruction is done by the ruling majority. This is the chairman of the Finance Committee. This is her deputy, Mrs. Branka Ljiljak, from the ruling majority. The ruling majority is unable to secure a quorum on the Finance Committee. How many times have we met? How many times has there been no quorum? The ruling majority is unable to secure that. It's no problem to call the Committee and say, "Today we have a topic here and here and let's discuss it -- today we're bringing in the governor of the National Bank, let's discuss the problems we have in this country. We had a meeting with the IMF delegation when we were clearly told that no arrangement would be made with our country. After that, we did not have a Finance Committee, which was an attempt to hold the Finance Committee, but the ruling majority did not replace its member from the Kingdom, who moved to another post and resigned as MPs. The ruling majority know which way is irresponsible to this congregation, especially irresponsible to the situation in which the state is located. My predecessors have said a lot about what is happening right now in this country, what is the situation among citizens, who really have a great fear of this financial crisis. We can't hear a word of it here. I ask you to do everything possible to schedule a Finance Committee, that the most responsible people appear on the Finance Committee when it comes to these topics that we have talked about. We also want to see the governor of the National Bank and the finance minister, and try to get through this pay phone, or through that committee at least to ease the situation with the citizens, in a way. Once again, Mrs. Hope, I invite you, you are required, your MP group, to propose a replacement for a member of the Finance Committee so that we can function in an adequate manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3478	National MP, Article 42’s position has not been violated, given that the agenda item as last in this session has been met with the demands of parliamentary groups for the amendments of members of individual committees, changes in personal or on the functions of the committees of the National Assembly. As far as working on the committees of the National Assembly is concerned, no quorum is required for the work of the National Assembly. It's the same thing in the Rules of Procedure. It only takes a quorum to decide. So, any committee can work regardless of the number of members present, it cannot decide, so that does not constitute a reason for your pointing out the breach of the Rules of Procedure and an explanation and a request to convene a session of the Finance Committee. If you weren't in the O.R., I gave an explanation, so the president of the National Assembly convenes the constitutive committee sessions. Each meeting of the Committee shall be convened by the chair or chair of the Committee on Finance or shall be held on the basis of the request of a number of members of each Assembly Committee under the rules of procedure. So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, pointing out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and Dragan Sormaz, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Then, Kenan Hajdarevic, after Jadranka Tabakovic, then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3479	Madam Vice President, it's absolutely incredible that you consider a normal session of the board that can't decide anything because it doesn't have a qualified majority that can make decisions. I guess we come here and take money to decide something, not to fill a certain space. What is more important in this country today than the economic breakdown that threatens us? Here's the elected governor. He didn't show up for a session when he was elected governor. He was present when he submitted an annual report to the Finance Committee, one word he did not say about foreign reserve placements. What happens, Madam Chairman, if it turns out that part of the foreign reserve is placed in Freddy Mac and Fanny May, the American financial institutions that went bankrupt and that were nationalized two weeks ago in America? What happens if some of the funds collected from the mandatory reserves are placed in such a way that today these funds are worth less than they were worth when they were taken? In what other country is the central bank acting that way? In what other country does the finance minister keep silent as he is here in Serbia today? In which country does the Prime Minister say that the crisis is gone while the stock of all companies on the stock market is dropping? I told you an example, the state is obliged to take care of its property. The Commercial Bank is the property of this state. Yesterday, her stock was worth 29 grand. A year ago, the same bank's stock was worth 130 grand. How much did this country lose? The Minister of Economy comforts us with the announcement that we are not concerned that the banks are safe. Look what's going on with the banks in the world. What is the guarantee of such an assessment? How are we helping these banks? How do we help our economy? What happens if these banks pull their employees out of the business because they're loaded and they have to place that money somewhere else? Our economy is about to collapse. What happens if we shake the mortgage market, as it shakes all over the world? Yesterday, the Moscow Stock Exchange closed after 15 minutes for a crash that was twice as small as the crash on our stock market. How many hundreds of thousands of people in this country took loans for their apartments because these apartments were worth two, three, four thousand euros? What happens if the real estate market falls on us as it fell in Podgorica, as it fell in Zagreb, as it fell in Sarajevo, as it fell again in Moscow by 70%? That's what we need to talk about. We all live in this country. I'm glad you're convinced it's going to get better, I believe that each of us is doing everything we can to make sure it's true, but we can't keep our mouth shut about this. Yesterday we spoke to the president, at the beginning of yesterday, at 9:00 a.m., we pointed to problems. The answer was: all these things other people, economists, told me, ask us for a reaction, I don't know what to do. The president must know what to do. They must call for a session of the Finance Committee, but to work with their authority, to make sure that those without whom we cannot define the measures that we will face the coming crisis are: the governor, the director of the stock exchange, the first man of the Securities Committee, the finance minister, the Prime Minister and we as the MPs. If we all invest our authority together in giving guarantees that individuals in power today are inconclusive, then maybe some positive shift will be made. There may be peace in our society, economic security of citizens, perhaps no stampede on banks. Do you know how many people have their money in the Unicredit Bank that went bankrupt in Italy? Do you know what happened to Erste Bank last night? Don't play with those things! We survived the agony once. We do not blame you for what is happening, although the responsibility is great for the government that increases public spending, which gives pensioners 10% that they lost yesterday – in one day there is a lost raise for pensions. This isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We want to discuss issues that are extremely important to this country and allow us to do so. Set up a session of the Finance Committee where the most responsible people in this country will appear.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3480	You said yourself it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you got your word based on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. If we look at the stenogram, you haven't even called in an article. 225 is not in Art. 225. 226. The only thing I can say again, since I understand that your presentation is related to the appointment of a session of the Committee on Finance, the Constitutional Session is convened by the President of the Assembly, the President or the Chairman of the Committee of Regular Sessions, and members of the Committee may request that the session with the relevant agenda be convened and none of this is the subject of any breach of the Rules of Procedure, nor has the Rules of Procedure been injured. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was noted by MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3481	Of course, Art. 225 and 226. Also, like my predecessor, I don't consider it a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I find it a very alarming situation. This is not about this agenda either, the fight against corruption existed before this agenda and before this government, so it will continue to exist. It is a very difficult situation in the country, and of course, as MPs, at least the part that is responsible for its citizens, for the citizens who have elected it, and for the whole people and the state, they want to talk about what is most important at this point, and not about something that is important, too, but not the most important. We heard from this pay phone that it's all about, except I'm not surprised, unlike some MPs, which is how executive rule behaves. Our people would say, "The village burns and the grandmother combs." Of course they're acting that way because they're incompetent! I've said it many times from this pay phone. It is such a coalition – which cannot be effective, it is such an executive power – which cannot be effective. Last night we had an example, and my colleague Nenad Popovic, he will certainly say a lot of things better than I did, last night we looked at the State Secretary of State Service of the Ministry of Finance who had no answer to any question, except that the state will increase the deficit – so as a state of eight million to have a deficit of six billion euros, while a state of 38 million, such as Poland, has a deficit of seven billion euros; so, of course, we will increase those costs, so we will buy giraffes, so we will cancel the concession, and at a time when money is the most expensive of World War II, we will negotiate with the World Bank, with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, I repeat, at a time when the most expensive money is, for a billion and 200 million euros. She doesn't care about this government, they won't pay back those loans, they'll give back the people. When's it gonna get better, people? When will there be higher wages – when you put in charge and create an even greater external debt of this state?- I'm sorry. Also, last night, the State Secretary for Finance said one more thing, that the only solution is to raise taxis, increase VAT. When will the Fiat come if you increase VAT and raise taxes? How will new investors arrive in the country? When will this JAT be sold if it's done? Never! And there's going to be a withdrawal of what investors we have here. You are irresponsible authority. Who knows about the Prime Minister in Serbia? Who is this man and who asks him for anything in this country anyway? That's what we were talking about, that you can't choose an anonymous man as Prime Minister and that he can't hold the strings in his hands, that he can't run the state and, of course, he can't. Then, those who are more politically powerful than him, like Mladjan Dinkic, can do whatever they want; they can tear down the gas-energy agreement, they can break the concession they stood for for for three years, now suddenly it's no good, and they're in debt to land-based higher interest rates than it was just months ago. This authority, in my opinion, should not give answers but should withdraw, because it is not capable of doing what it was chosen to do in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3482	People's Messenger, at the beginning of your presentation, you said: "This is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure; I do not call upon the violation of the Rules of Procedure." He's referring to an article. 225 and 226 as it needs information from the section of the Rules of Procedure – rights and duties. (The People's MP Dragan Shormaz throws: Not from you. So, in your presentation, you called for an article. 225 and 226 which include the request for information necessary for the performance of the duties. You did not ask for any single information from anyone during the presentation, so the way you received the word of misleading the chairman, because you pointed out that it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and the way in which you gave your presentation, in a minute longer than the Rules of Procedure was intended, you conceived and shared with us an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly, and it would probably be a good measure to give notice of disrespect to the National Assembly. I ask you to invest at least so much energy, when you already abuse the Rules of Procedure, to ask one single question per article 225 or 226, which otherwise no one has the right to receive a word based on article 100. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Kenan Hajdarevic. National MP Dragan Shormaz throws out of place after saying he doesn't need information from me, which I am obliged to give to him when he seeks a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 226, and I'm asking for an explanation from the Serbian Government of what she's doing. Instead of reducing public spending, it increases the budget with Rebalance. What are the steps taken by the government of Serbia and the Ministry of Economy regarding the decline of our banks' actions and companies on the stock market? What are the steps taken by the Government and the Ministry of Economy in order to protect our businesses and citizens? Today, citizens who have credits in banks face an increase in their wars, and the economy is looming over the fear of banks from the economic crisis. I ask the Ministry of Economy – how will this economic crisis affect further privatisation in Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3484	National MPs, the questions you have asked can only be asked as part of the agenda of parliamentary matters or within, apparently, the necessary sessions, which would be scheduled by the President of the National Assembly, at which the Government would answer the questions of the MPs. This is another abuse of the Rules of Procedure by calling for the right to a word without foundation. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3485	Dear colleagues, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, member of the 100th in relation to Article 77, which is to call the Finance Committee on the topical issue. I inform you this way that yesterday's agreement has been reached that both the Governor of the National Bank and Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic are calling for the Finance Committee and to deliver it to the Committee, and the Committee will report on the measures taken to reduce the impact of the global financial crisis and on the financial system and on the economy of this country, and with a special aspect of how this will affect the lives of citizens and their credits. I urge you, as a citizen of Serbia, not to talk about this topic in a way that is panic-making, but in a way that will, apparently, touch us. When I say relief, it means we'll feel safe, but when I say there's no need to cause panic, I wonder what you've just woken up today, dear colleagues. When I warned about the foreign debt, about how much that debt cost, who's gonna pay it back, there wasn't this kind of energy. When I warned, a year ago, there was no such energy as to trade charters of value and the devastating policies of the National Bank. The way we're in charge of $29 billion, of which 20 billion is private debt, will bring back citizens and businesses. Do you know what that means? Credits, which will either return prematurely or cost more, should be returned to companies where our fellow citizens, our colleagues, friends, relatives and ourselves work. So it concerns all of us. It's not the high policy you've qualified her for. When citizens come to major credit wars, it's again something that goes on the burden of every Serbian citizen, when you increase the budget and you rebalance, when you uncritically take credits, which we don't know when they left, which you didn't use, or even if we don't know it, in the right way, when you heard in last year's budget that a million and seven hundred thousand euros went to fines for undrawn funds, so literally dumped money in the water, according to approved loans, you were deaf to what you're told! So I don't see today the well-intentioned panic that is created and I ask everyone responsible, and we sitting in this room have to be responsible, thinking about this policy when they're voting for the adoption of the loan, when they're voting for budget rebalancing and when they're humming to miss out on what's called citizens' lives. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. Just one more sentence... When there are fewer loans and foreign direct investments due to a poor inflow of capital, and it is reduced, there are fewer loans and foreign direct investments, when the consumption of citizens falls, and when they buy only bread and milk, panic will not help us. Let's be responsible people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3486	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, pointing out the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3487	Mrs. Comic, you know I have great respect for you. When you say it's been three minutes, then I leave the pay phone and I appreciate you instinctively defending this Rules of Procedure as your dearest child, and you're probably the first and only one in this building. However, I must draw your attention to Article 104. The Rules of Procedure mean that you protect the dignity of the National Assembly. Please, for days MPs in the National Assembly, unlike the citizens and citizens also present in this assembly (I don't know on what basis, but it will be resolved too), means the MPs rightly point both to you and to the Government, and to the President of the Republic and to all the authorities not to behave like in that series, "The baby combs, the village burns." Mrs. Comic, a debate is necessary, not on some anonymous and financing committees, where a lady speaks very responsibly, and then escapes the hall irresponsiblely, enters as an MP, comes out as a citizen, so remembers what she said a year ago, and now here she says - don't panic. The whole world is panicking, and we're freezing here - don't panic. And I wouldn't be surprised if this lady said that this financial system has come to light because Nikola Sainovic is temporarily at large, because they can say that too. But it's something serious, so I guess it's serious when the president of your political council drew the public's attention that we need to clear up the tycoons issue. If Micunović saw something wrong, I'm sorry, please, why are we closing our eyes? Let me remind you, Mrs. Comic, because of one of my criticisms from this pay phone, I am in court with Mladjan Dinkic, and I only asked where the money is from Cyprus. And he sued me. Where's the money from Cyprus? He boasted he'd found them. Please give me a hearing. Whom the snake burns and the lizard fears. You have seen for yourself, without some great science, it has been proven, in the past five days, what happened on Serbia's financial market, that pensioners have been tortured by that increase, even getting a minus. What kind of government is that? What do they rule over? Nemomanine 9, 11 and across the street? Crime wherever you turn. Here's the crime in the Assembly. A woman comes out, she pretends to be in financials. What's she in finance? We're waiting for a moment when they'll be revealed that they've been taking loans, where they've taken the money away from those who care for the citizens. I apologize, Mrs. Comic, for cutting your trip to Europe in 17 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3488	Just like yesterday's nine seconds. We'll make up for that 17, but your presentation lacks a member of the Rules of Procedure who's been injured. (Verica Radeta, from place: said Article 104.) The explanation that the violation of Article 104 offends the dignity of the National Assembly simply did not damage the Rules of Procedure, and your argument contained that it was the paralegals. There are no paralegals in the National Assembly. There are committees of the National Assembly. There are no anonymous committees, there are committees of the National Assembly. Please, not doubting that we share the desire to respect the Rules of Procedure, that we do not use that kind of address as a speaker of the National Assembly. The word is by MP Zoran Ostojic, noting the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3489	I did not point out, Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Chairman and Vice President, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I report to the Rules of Procedure. You can't tell by which member I'm answering when I raise my hand.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3490	National MP, the right to a word is obtained on the basis of article 100. Article 100 says an MP who thinks he is injured by one of the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly gets a word over the line as soon as he asks for it and immediately after the previous speaker finishes his presentation. A different basis for receiving words does not exist in the procedure of the session of the National Assembly. So, the moment any member of the Parliament raises the Rules of Procedure, it is a sign that he has noticed the injury of a member, the violation of procedures and the course of the National Assembly's session, and our proposal to say which member has been violated by the same Rules of Procedure. There is no other way to get a word unless you are authorized to propose an act which is on the agenda, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, the president of a parliamentary group or a member of parliament and MPs who are in a row of registered speakers to receive the word. In special cases, the word shall be given to the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly at the beginning of the debate and to the MPs who have issued an opinion. That's a business basis for getting words. Please point out which member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3491	Mrs. Komic, the Rules of Procedure have been injured by the fact that the Assembly is not discussing what the citizens are today terrified of. The Rules of Procedure have been injured because someone comes out for a pay phone and says that they care about citizens, their loans and their money to spread panic. This assembly is a gathering of MPs. We represent the citizens. We can't work. Mrs. Komic, I'm being asked by the citizens – how long will the course go, what will happen to my loan? I can't answer them if I don't know how fast liquidity can be restored in the country, and I can't know that because I don't know where the foreign reserve is. In order to be able to do the job of a MP, to work in the interest of the citizens who voted for my party, I would need to know that information. If the government and the majority of parliament don't think this is an urgent question, if they don't think it's a calming, conditionality, potentially dangerous situation in the interests of the citizens, then we're the ones who don't belong to the ruling majority here to point it out. When we remember what happened with foreign exchange reserves, as they were in Moscow, as they were in a small private bank a few years ago, when current Minister Dinkic was governor of the National Bank, when we remember that the then governor Mrs. Udovici tried to get that money back into the country, it was risky and dangerous, and then it was lightningly replaced because it touched someone's interests, those who had made that money from that small Russian bank, apparently, participated in privatisations in Serbia, with state money, increased private assets -- these are all the arguments why we ask Governor Jelasic to say where foreign reserves and money from mandatory bank reserves, because this is an extremely important issue. Liquidity of domestic banks, businesses – falls. It falls also because of the global financial crisis, which the banks in which the domestic banks owed to lend loans to citizens have a liquidity problem and these banks can no longer be in debt in Western Europe, where this most often seemed to be. For this reason, because of the interests of the citizens, we are advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because it certainly has to do with the points of the agenda that we are currently discussing, data on the protection of a person, etc., after all, personality data are related to both credit cards and one of these segments we will discuss, but we insist that this assembly begins to deal with what interests the citizens. These are important questions and we're going to end these agenda points, especially if you put together six incompatible ones, we're going to end up, but we can't wait and ignore the reality that's in the paper. Some newspapers are trying to hide this, objectively, potentially dangerous situation with a story about giraffes and money. All right, and it's a scandal, but we can't close our eyes in front of the fact, Mrs. Komic, that apart from the global financial crisis, this situation in Serbia is affected by budget rebalances and excessive public spending, which LDP has been talking about since its beginning, but, for now, without success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3492	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3493	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I advertise Article 226. I ask for notice and explanation from Prime Minister Cvetkovic – what measures has the government taken to minimise this crisis ahead of us? I think the moment is urgent that, finally, Prime Minister Cvetkovic comes to the Assembly and talks to us. I really don't know where he is, what he's doing, what he's doing, if he's even getting involved in his business right now. Ten days ago, we had a meeting of the five prime ministers of the leading European countries about the financial crisis, when the prime ministers of some other European countries who, also EU members, were angry that they had not been invited to the meeting, because the crisis, which has not yet come to its peak, will only be, expected in February-March next year, the crisis is just coming, but the EU, America, Asian countries, Russia, are thinking in some other way, think ahead of six months, a year, and want to make some action plans, have begun to implement crisis management in their governments. Today, virtually, the congregations of all countries in Europe have as a major topic of this economic crisis and how to minimise future losses. They repeat what I said yesterday, that the loss on the Serbian financial market for the last few months is 3.1 billion euros and no one is responding to it. The Russians shut down their stock exchange two days ago, and we don't have a plan. Well, Mrs. Doprenic herself says we don't have a strategy for our stock market. We don't have it because this government doesn't have any plan. Have you seen any strategy for Serbia's economic development in moments of the world's greatest crisis since 1929? And what's going on? At the moment when we have the most difficult situation in front of us – it has not yet come, it will just come, don't worry, this isn't any expansion of panic, this is just one normal state approach to solving problems, when you see the problem in front of you, you don't need to close your eyes, but you need to face it – the government for budget rebalancing, the government wants to invest in projects. How's he gonna do that? There are three ways: One is to raise taxes and VAT. To whose harm? At the expense of businessmen, especially businessmen who work in small and medium-sized enterprises. At the expense of several million employees in these companies. Another way is to attract funds from the international money market. Today it's an illusion, practically, inaccessible, and if they're available, then they're the most expensive in the last 50 years. Repeat, most expensive! What's the third way? Of course, what this government loves most is privatisation. (President: Time. Unfortunately, it's Telecom. We can't do APO, it's not a moment, but no one mentions the privatisation of those companies that are in very bad shape. What about Magnochroma? What about the Power Industry? What about Viscoss? There's no mention of the pine tree. What about these companies? In these companies, there are 50 to 100 thousand people who don't know what their future is. What about small and medium-sized enterprises that won't be able to get loans from banks that matter to them like air? That is why I think it is necessary for Prime Minister Cvetkovic to come to this assembly as soon as possible. There is no more important topic in the Republic of Serbia today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3494	The word has Natasa Jovanovic, and then Mr Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I'm responding for one technical matter. You weren't in the O.R. half an hour ago, but I'm speaking this way to the people in charge of the session transfer. Of course, they are not to blame because I was subsequently informed by the secretaries that he received a memo identifying a group of citizens in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as SNS. You can't see it, citizens can see it in the direct transmission of the National Assembly sessions. We will ask you, we from the SRS parliamentary group, Madam President, to provide us with this memo that Mr. Odalovic told me exists. That's unacceptable. It was also unacceptable what happened in the previous days, when these same people who took the mandates and stole the SRS on the list they were elected were signed as some kind of parliamentary group that had a name. Indeed, it is a violation of dignity for us. I've reported in accordance with Article 104 and Article 23. Rules of Procedure. In fact, the Rules of Procedure know the category of 'Citizens', but only at the time when a group of citizens comes to elections and has a name. This is indeed, above all, a way to distract citizens and to promote something that does not exist in real political life through the public and through the direct transmission of the session of the National Assembly. Whether there will be, let them show some next election. We have political parties, parliamentary groups and people representing these parties, who go out for a pay phone and who, as such, know the public by name and last name. So, I accidentally paid attention and again I tell you, you couldn't see it because the display is on the chairman's desk, but I've already received reactions from citizens through SMS messages that it's unacceptable, as you're getting telegrams that, apparently, someone is obstructing the Assembly, obviously the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in this case also the Governor of the National Bank, who, on such a serious issue, when the financial collapse is in the state, does not want to appear in front of the MPs. Please, Madam President, to react because in the most harsh way, through this kind of deception of the public, as well as through all these other unfeeling campaigns on these regimeal media, Boris Tadic is being led against the SRS and against the electoral will of citizens, whom, you see, they themselves want to protect through us who are their authentic representatives in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3496	Thank you. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, then Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3497	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I am pleased to have Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic here, because I think it can bring the Assembly back to the order we care about and that we finally raised this issue. You are witnessing our conversation yesterday at the beginning of yesterday, in which there was no intention of disturbing the public, in which there was no desire to create panic, but only to worry about the economic policy that this country is conducting and the intention to create an atmosphere that is characteristic of all countries in our environment and the whole world, the atmosphere of an emergency situation in which the state specifically refers to a crisis that is obvious. It is absolutely amazing that such a type of interest and behavior can be qualified as spreading panic. Lying to society is leaving citizens to themselves, and that's a prerequisite for panic. When a serious discussion is held in Parliament, when the debate is held before the most responsible officials, that is how seriousness is demonstrated. We only asked that a session of the Finance Committee be convened, that committee that has been meeting unsuccessfully for weeks, which will present arguments that will put the necessary additional security into our economy and our banking sector, and above all, into our society, into our citizens. That's what they need. I think that you as President can do this effort and we will accept not your guarantee, but your promise to do your best to establish the necessary links between Parliament, the Government, the National Bank, the Belgrade Stock Exchange and the Securities Commission, to define the necessary package and political and economic measures, which will safeguard economic stability in our society, an economic stability that does not know the difference between the government and the opposition. Take that responsibility upon yourself, and we will be happy to support you in that work. But no one can expect us to remain silent in front of obvious problems and turn our heads aside, because there is no willingness, desire or ability, to discuss at this point the situation we are in. We think it's better to act preventively than to repair the damage done after the problem. It's our business together. The governor couldn't come across our understanding when he was elected here because he didn't show respect for the Assembly, he didn't even come to the Assembly, but at any moment he will come across our understanding of the situation in which Serbia is located if he proposes measures that will be adequate to what Serbia needs today, austerity measures, careful economic policies, measures that will affirm work and separate what has been brought together so far in Serbia, which is politics and economics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3498	Thank you. The concern of Parliament regarding economic stability should certainly be conveyed and I will do so to all relevant entities that you have mentioned. The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3499	Dear Members of the People, Honored President, I have advertised the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 104. I believe that Parliament's reputation is being increasingly impaired every day. Why? We are constantly asking questions here that are very serious about a country, about a government, about a Parliament, because we are the National Assembly, about the MPs, and we ask that very seriously. We don't make jokes here, we don't have anything against anyone. We don't want to create any fun climates, etc. We want you to do it seriously, responsibly, because that's what the people are asking us to do. And when we ask very serious questions: what are the foreign exchange reserves, where they are located, where banks, whether these banks are threatened, whether they are bankrupt, these are extremely serious issues and someone has to give us an answer, rather than laughing, to comment and to discuss some European laws. It's nice to discuss this, but this is more important. I am for European law, but let's get this started. Who should we ask? We have no one to ask. We should ask the prime minister, the finance minister and the people who are responsible and who are elected here. But I notice we don't have a prime minister. Here, in today's newspaper, Minister Dinkic comments on the liquidity of banks. He's acting as prime minister, as finance minister. The other day he's talking about concessions, gas agreements, tourism, ski resorts, agriculture, what's on his mind. And he's supposed to be dealing with the Magnochroma, the Elektron Industries, doing Jumko, the Simpo, the Kostano, the cutting tool factory, a lot of firms that are in danger, and he's talking about what he wants. We sent him to America to see about these banks, and he's talking about the credit lines he got. And it doesn't have anything to do with it. The other day he was talking about railroads. The man lost his compass. My question to Parliament's president reads: "Is Mr Dinkic invisible, the secret prime minister of this government? '"Look at the title, here it says he's the prime minister. Is he the finance minister? If so, have someone deny me. What's the governor of the National Bank doing? Do we even have him and can he answer our important questions? How is budget rebalance used, why is there no rebalance, how budgets are used, whether the Budget Law is respected? I wanted to talk very seriously yesterday. Corruption and all that is an extremely good topic, but people in power cannot be controlled, there must be opposition in that control itself. (President: Time. He who is not in power cannot be corrupt, but he can control it. The assembly must have its own bodies that control certain financial flows of money. That's why it's necessary to form a finance committee, like a working body. We don't have that board, we don't have a traffic and communications committee, let's see about that concession, come in and talk very seriously. Without working bodies, there's nothing, no state institutions to control. Individuals cannot be placed above Parliament's institutions. Mr. Ilich, time. ) Another thing, finance ministers, do you know, ma'am, that some once paid a $23m advance to Erbas? No one has asked for years to come back, to consider the contract. Believe it, over 10 or 15 years, 23m euros were paid to Erbas for one contract as an advance. (President: Time. Nobody's looking for him. People were coming. When I was a minister I asked the government five times – people, what about that money? And they say, "People, are you so rich that you've lost $23 million and you're no longer interested in it?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3500	Thank you. I realized that in your own way you asked about the function of individual members of the government, whether they perform the function in which they were elected or otherwise, so we will forward this question to those responsible for the distribution of obligations in the Government, or to the Prime Minister. The word is Mr. Marash, first of all.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3501	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 104. I'm reacting for two things. The first is that one of the previous speakers mentioned the spread of unnecessary panic here. I find this extremely offensive, for the simple reason that this is not about the spread of panic, but, above all, about the care of the citizens, including us as MPs. Also, Madam President, you did not understand what LDP President Cedomir Jovanovic was telling you. He did not ask you to transfer concerns from Parliament about certain entities, i.e. certain institutions. He asked you to make a maximum effort to reach the Finance Committee, which could not make any decision for several months because there was no quorum, the prime minister or finance minister or governor of the National Bank of Serbia came. I heard here that the question is whether or not we have a strategy and if we have a plan. Clearly, we have no strategy or plan. We've heard that the most powerful people in this planet meet and try to solve this financial crisis and ease all effects. The question is, where is our prime minister? Our prime minister was in Podgorica at the opening of a shopping mall. Instead of sitting with his associates and taking care of how to mitigate the effects of the global financial crisis, he is doing something else. So we ask you, in accordance with Article 77, to make an effort, to put your authority which, undeniably, you have as chairman of the Assembly and to bring to the Committee of Finance, which we have heard will be scheduled, but to be scheduled today, does not need anything for two weeks, means that the governor of the National Bank of Serbia should come to the Minister of Finance or Prime Minister, so that we can get answers to some questions, or to hear what the plan is and what the strategy is to get out of the situation where our country will undoubtedly find itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3502	Thank you. I am fully aware of your suggestion that our Finance Committee is working, and that the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and the finance minister are also involved and that we will call on the Prime Minister, and we will do so. We'll let you know. I suggest we do a little bit of legislative activity. The word is Mr. Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3503	Article 226. My question, Prime Minister, who I don't see here, is one of the ministers, but I see the president of the National Assembly, and based on what we've heard so far, would it be: when will the Finance Committee be scheduled? It's very important for us to have it scheduled, it's very important for us to see the people that are being pointed out here on the Financial Committee, because we are facing a global economic recession that cannot have an impact on our country. All this is happening in circumstances where the government is leading politics and not economic policy, because the government's economic policy does not exist. Not only that, there is a violation of the basic economic policy postulates in this country. For political games, major state-run economic projects are being destroyed. That's what we all witnessed, from the highway to the threat of a gas deal with Russia. Simply, these are the sources of major future revenues for Serbia, which are now in power, cut off or trying to cut off the government's irresponsible policy and political consolidation. So, you do abnormal things at a time when there can be catastrophic consequences in this country of what is currently the global process. We haven't noticed, nor have we heard from anyone yet in public, in newspapers, in the media, anywhere, that serious measures are being taken against this kind of disaster. That kind of accident hit the U.S. at this point and look what's going on out there. See how people who are on the opposite poles of a political mile in the United States are trying to get the state out of a huge crisis and how they see that kind of danger, just like a tsunami, an earthquake or some other kind of elemental accident. It's just amazing that someone here in Serbia, who has a responsibility to exercise power, doesn't come out openly, at least on one TV show to advertise himself, with one story, which will seem as convincing as possible, that at least something is working on it. Then no wonder today's workday (instead of continuing the debate on agenda points at 10 o'clock) we have an hour or how long it will take, an hour and a half, controversy on this topic. It is normal to have, until we have, as MPs, who, on behalf of Serbian citizens, have the right to ask these questions, what kind of an answer that can satisfy us. So, instead of waiting for a failure, that is, that assembly day, according to the Rules of Procedure, when they should be here Minister and members of the Government to ask them a question, and they have something to answer to us, I think it would be a satisfactory measure to at least maintain a Finance Committee attended by the finance minister, the governor of the National Bank and the prime minister, as has already been proposed by many MPs, to get an answer to that question at some point in time. To do its job, to do what is necessary after that, the National Assembly in general hears the answer given at that meeting and the public hears it. It's very important to all of us. I'm afraid it's only for one single reason, and that's that you don't have an answer to this key question. I'm afraid that, in that case, Serbia is waiting for the black days.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3504	Thank you. National MP Nenad Popovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3505	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I didn't get an answer yesterday, and here I am asking the question again today. The adopted budget rebalance for this year – did he enter the assembly procedure? Why am I saying this? The government has not set economic priorities. I understand that they had some economic priorities when they formed, when Prime Minister Cvetkovic here presented his exposés here, where he promised 4% inflation and many other really illogical elements, but what I want to say is, the government did not set economic priorities. It can't be at the same time, and that's what they told us at the World Bank, that pensions are increasing, that infrastructure is developing, that environmental and social giving and the development of the population, at times when we have budget deficits, at the moment we have the biggest public spending in Europe. Now is probably the moment when the government has to come up with a whole new investment plan. Why? We have a NIP that was adopted in other times. Serious countries should today stop everything, analyse – some projects that are really quality, they have to be completed. Some projects will have to be stopped, and some will likely have to be completely deleted from the NIP. Because we can't build exactly the same projects, adopt budget rebalancing at the moment when the biggest economic crisis comes after World War II. So, indeed, I would like to get an answer to the second question, will you invite Prime Minister Cvetkovic to address his exposés at this critical moment for our economic future and to have his exposés as he and the government see the next two, three years under the conditions of the highest interest rates and, practically, under the conditions of inability to get a crossboarder's credit. What we're looking for has already been done, I will repeat, all European countries. That's what Russia does, the prime minister of Russia and the president address the people almost daily. In America, too, every day. It's the main theme of all conversations. We want to not wait for the moment when the crisis occurs, but at this moment, until great crisis elements are visible, to react at this moment. So, once again, I would say that this government, when it presented its pre-election programme, has promised three things. She promised that pensions would be 70% of the average salary, they cheated on the people. They promised to be headlong in stock market growth, they cheated tens and hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens, and they also promised that they would all get free shares per thousand euros, I can't say anymore, it's really a huge scam... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... They won't get 50 euros apiece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3506	Time, sir. Thank you. The word is Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3507	Madam President, our initiative here in Parliament has not been initiated with the intention of transferring our concerns to the bearer of some other functions or to another institution. It is simply that all those who came to Parliament asking Parliament for support for their appointments are, in our opinion, obliged at this time to give Parliament an insight into some of the moves and measures, to tell us if there is anything, whether they are in the plan, so that we can respond together with them to the problems the country is facing. As we will differ about many things in the future, such as the past, it is easy to agree today on some, in our opinion, general places in everyday life – the protection of economic security in society and the obligations of Parliament and we think that we will respond. If we cannot answer that during the debate in the congregation, we will try somewhere else. What's safe, we're not gonna keep that quiet. This parliament has made decisions that, from a time distance, which is not so long, compromise the majority that today is silent when we want a clear answer to questions that are not asked by us, but by everyday life, problems that shake the whole world and not just Serbia, problems that the whole world is talking about as Serbia or Serbian authorities keep quiet. A month ago, they held a debate about the Russian-Serbian energy agreement. We talked about what's wrong with that. Three weeks later, we received in response to all our doubts and the skepticial finding from the Russian partner that the pipeline will be operational around 2020, and at best in 2015, and in the more realistic 2024. Let's talk about some golden environment. There is no argument that would advance us into security in the government's intentions and bearer of the leaders of those institutions who have so far kept silent and have done nothing to bring the crisis to an end. Your government is criticised for economic policy by the governor, your government criticises the governor, and when the crisis comes, you support each other, without feeling responsible for the fact that you yourself have produced this crisis. We talked about it yesterday at the consultation. Nothing happened. We opened that question during the assembly session yesterday and nothing happened. We were the only ones involved in the discussion of laws that are on the agenda and from the ruling majority no one said a word about them. How is that not true? Very clearly, we were the only ones involved in a serious debate. What was heard was not an argument and a serious debate, as the answer to the very specific questions they had asked was avoided. It was a recital and a recital. That is not what Serbia needs today. We will no longer participate in the debate on these issues that we have raised. You don't have to transfer our concerns to Jelasic or the director of the stock exchange, you don't have to transfer our concerns to the Securities Commission, not to the Prime Minister, not to the finance minister. I'm sure they know without our concern how difficult this situation is. You can say that there are partners in us for any situation where you think they are solving a crisis, which we do not consider directly responsible, but for the absence of the initiative is certainly responsible. We'll be back to discuss six laws... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... in the space provided for by one law, and I remain in my view that the ruling majority cannot even repeat the set of laws we are discussing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3508	I am experiencing that the interest and concern of Parliament is one extremely constructive step. What we in Parliament can do, and we have already done during this debate, is write letters and governors of the National Bank, and the Prime Minister and finance minister to clarify and give their assessments and possible proposals for a solution to the existing situation in the Committee on Finance in this Parliament. This committee will be convened as soon as we have confirmed answers that they will come to participate in the work. I think the topic is extremely and current and significant. I think we've shown both concern and interest in this debate, and I don't think it's something negative. The word is Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3509	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite the President of the National Assembly to publicly invite Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic to come to this House. A lot of questions have been opened in the past few months. The atmosphere that is in the assembly today, and yesterday as it was, says it is only the prime minister who can answer these big questions. I remind you, we did not get answers – why did the agreement with the EU fail and why did the EU not show what it had promised the ruling coalition, what did we point to? Mr Cvetkovic must answer that the National Assembly, too, in terms of – why can this parliament for four months not react to the events that are on KIM, the deployment of Eulex and the declaration of the constitution by institutions that have declared an independent state? They must answer that – why it prevents the realisation of a gas-oil deal with the Russian Federation by individual partners in the government, whose president he is. We are proving to be a non-serious state, because we are unable to realise and fulfil the obligations we have made and which have been taken over by the highest representatives of the Serbian state. Of course, about what is happening today, whether or not the Government of the Republic of Serbia lives in a world that is beyond reality – not to see citizens' concerns, not to see how citizens react to what is happening today, and here we hear messages that all of this is about the spread of panic. There are a lot of open questions that we don't have answers to. It is logical that the representatives of the opposition, who listen daily to citizens and want to convey the messages they receive from them, want the Prime Minister to come here to Parliament. I call on you, Madam President of the Assembly, to invite Mirko Cvetkovic to answer that – on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, on the Government's policy on KIM, to answer the question of the realisation of the Gas and Oil Agreement and why it is mined in the government itself, and to answer that what the government's policies are and what are the answers to this major economic crisis that threatens to bring Serbia into major economic problems and, of course, all citizens. Please, don't write a letter. I'm asking you to call him in public. This is the request of most MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3510	What is business possible is that we schedule a special session, that Mr. Cvetkovic participates in the work with us and answers all your questions. It's your business opportunity and my obligation, we can absolutely agree on that. In doing so, I think you have in mind that Mr. Cvetkovic should use the model of previous Prime Ministers for the frequency of participation in Parliament's work. He has the word Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3511	Dear Madam President, the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I do not see the minister, given that during the past day, the DSS has repeatedly pointed out what kind of farce, in fact, the obstruction of the work of the Assembly is done by the ruling majority by uniting the debate on the extremely important laws it has proposed -- the DSS MPs believe that all Serbian citizens should be represented by law, because it is very important that such a set of laws be presented to the public. In fact, those laws were the most inconceivable in the past, and as far as I can tell in the media today. That's how I'm gonna be in charge of the Personal Data Protection Act today. When it comes to the protection of personal data, I must say that in Serbia, the Law of the SRJ adopted in 1998 is still in force and that it is a law based on the 1981 Convention of the Council of Europe, completely ignoring the standards set by the Council of Europe Directive, which was passed three years later, means 1984. This law in force applies only to that part of data protection, as if the secrecy of data is the only need of a man whose data is being taken and misused, and not to that other part of the story, meaning it does not apply to the collection, processing and use of data. I have to say that this law, which has been in force since 1998, not once, has a single individual asked for the protection of their rights under this law, and for God's sake, it has been an abuse. I only want to list a few cases of those who are known to all the citizens of this country because they are directly involved in them. For example, it happens that in the course of an election campaign, each of us in our own age gets a text message from certain political parties whose manner is to vote for them. On the other hand, on the day of the RIK election, every full-age Serbian citizen gets a text message to exercise his electoral right. It wouldn't be a questionable message, but it's that our data from some database, which is probably collected by a state body or institutions, is given to use someone they're not meant to use. On the other hand, I want to talk about another way to abuse data. It is very often that in the means of public information we read some data concerning individual persons, which are obviously neither gossip nor misinformation, it is entirely about the personal data given to the public, and probably in order to disqualify this person in public. It's easier to talk in examples. When one person was considered to be one of the leading functions of the Institute of Security, all of a sudden, data from the medical records and personality came out in all the media and, of course, was the goal of disqualifying that person, which worked for no one. Also, each of us in his mailbox finds a bunch of prospectuses of various companies he's never heard of, or seen before, and they come to his address. What I'm trying to say is that our data in some other database has been used entirely for things they're not meant to be for. So it is quite clear that in today's time information is one of the basic sources of power and it is quite clear that we give thousands of data during the day: banks, post office, pension insurance, social security, health, school, post office, and that I don't list everything where we leave the data, for the ID card, passport and everything else - I mean that all that data is crossed simultaneously with that level of information system technology that is now in control, can really be misused and can and are most often misused. It's very possible that one day in this country, Big Brother controls everything. So our data is fully publicized. I'd say one more example that wasn't that far away if we'd forgotten it. A few months ago in the UK, 25 million U.K. citizens, seven million families, with all data and bank accounts numbers, social, health and all. What do you think, is it possible that in our country in the same way some floppy disappears – it is possible, of course, simply because it is material that disappears. That is why it is very important for this law to be in the process today, it is very important that the state finally regulates this area because, above all, it is a law that is important for Serbia to find itself on the 'white Schengen' list. This law should ensure that every citizen is protected by the right to privacy and other rights and freedoms relating to the processing of personal data. It practically regulates a lot of data protection areas, as well as the collection, processing and use of these data. What is more important, it should lead to significant harmonisation of Serbia's legal system in two areas that are very closely connected -- freedom of access to information and protection of personal data. But I'm worried about it and that's why I'm actually talking about this law this way, is a series of problems, a series of indiscretions, a series of blanks. When I see you interpret and read the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly that is both clear and precise, then I fear that these indiscretions and voids have just been left as a large space for manipulation and abuse. Here, let me put it this way. For example, Article 8, in the case of a lack of data processing, i.e. the conditions of non-authorisation of data processing, when the data is false – how and who determines that the data is false? Be careful how this is a place for abuse. In Article 11(1), it is recalling the consent of the person – there is no procedure by which the person can call off his consent to provide information about himself. Article 14 that speaks of collecting data from another person when the person is away, so it takes a lot of time and resources to get information about him. Imagine a place where the other person gives information about someone else. Then, Article 53, which speaks of the fact that the personal data of our citizens can be made available to countries that are signatories to the Convention on the Protection of Individuals, to international organisations, and allegedly all in the regulations provided in accordance with the Convention. What exactly am I saying? I don't want to talk about what's in this law, what kind of blanks a man is talking about who's in charge of taking care of information. God help us if you need to keep information about us. In the end, another finding. What is all in common with all these laws you put into this group of laws? It's common that, in fact, you're making cosmetic changes, that you want nothing to change these laws essentially, except, possibly, the terminology that is obviously European or at least should sound European. I'm afraid that's not enough for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3512	Thank you. Your parliamentary group has six minutes left. The word has been made by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic, the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we also have before us a package of anti-corruption laws on the Government's Bill on the Anti-Corruption Agency. The establishment of this agency would be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That is why the National Assembly should not adopt this bill. The principled position of the SRS is that outside the constitutional framework no agencies, directorates or any other bodies can be formed. The ministries are the only, under the Constitution, established state bodies within the government and if one such important business as the fight against corruption is wanted, an organisation can be carried out, so that these transactions are carried out within the justice ministry and the judicial authorities. The establishment of different agencies serves, as we already know in practice, exclusively for the disposal of party personnel. They're creating massive bodies that aren't efficient, and they're extremely expensive. Their funding is from the Republic of Serbia's budget, so it is another burden on the shoulders of citizens of Serbia. Even if this agency could be founded, her work would be full of disadvantages. If it were true that this agency would be an expensive and bulky body, the proof is this: Article 23. The bill provides for the Agency's director to be paid equally by the minister, and the deputy director's salary shall be paid equally by the Secretary of State. Article 24 states that the Agency has a professional service that also costs, and this bill provides for another body to be the Committee of the Agency for nine members and to receive a monthly fee in addition to the Director. If the existence of one such agency could result in a reduction in corruption in Serbia, then somehow the costs it generates could be accepted, as the benefits of both citizens and states would be multiple. However, this bill treats corruption in a completely different way than what is the real problem of corruption in practice. She's dragged herself into all the spheres of life and represents a much wider problem. The devastating fact is that Serbia is 85th in corruption on the 180-nation list, in association with Senegal, Madagascar, Panama, India, Albania and Montenegro, according to recent surveys. Corruption is spreading, and the democratic powers of the authorities do not show the existence of a will to provide conditions for the operation of regulatory institutions, particularly public procurement agencies and the State Audit Institutions. The state audit institution was formed a year ago. It also has temporary premises, but until the Serbian government provides all the necessary conditions for work, the state of Serbia's public finances remain a secret. In addition to the fact that the Rules of Procedure of the State Auditing Institution are still in the assembly procedure, it is awaiting the consent of the Assembly, and without it this institution cannot work. By adopting a law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, the existing Committee on Conflict of Interest would stop working. In his 2007 Annual Work Report, this committee gave its position on the bill. Among other things, it is said, "The Republic Committee has expressed its position under the Proposal for a Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, which says that the idea of which an independent body should lead procedures (Agency), the other body, (Manufacturer) is to make decisions on the violation of the Law, and the third body (Governmental Board) to make decisions on the pronunciation of measures, is not in line with the principles of our legal system. ''Maybe this position of the Committee's has caused a proposal to establish a new non-constitutional body. Given the fact that the Anti-Corruption Agency would take over the responsibilities of the Republic Committee to resolve conflicts of interest, the proposal for a law on the Agency places quite a place dedicated to conflict of interest. However, there are many shortcomings in public availability of data on the property of officials. That is what I mean when I analyse Article 48, which says in Section 4: "The data on the property of officials who are public according to other regulations, as well as other data for which the functioner, or spouse or out-of-marriage partner, is public to give consent to be published." There is currently a form of the Republic Committee to resolve conflicts of interest. There are exactly the data that are needed, so there is no place of self-will for someone to give consent to publish the data or not. I'm just going to take a quick look at the criminal provisions that are scheduled. Non-reporting of assets or providing false property data has been qualified as a criminal offence. Article 73 says, "A functioner who does not report property to the Agency or gives false property information, in order to conceal property data, will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years. ''And the legal consequences of the conviction are set out in Article 74, so that the functioner will cease to be a public function, i.e. the working relationship ends in accordance with the law. ''The Officer who has been sentenced to prison for a criminal offence under Article 73 of this Law shall be prohibited from obtaining public office within 10 years of the day of his sentence of law. "The provided criminal provisions are inapplicable as many laws that were passed after 2000. I don't just know how some people in this country who are related to tycoons will agree with this provision and who are too rewarded for their work. They've got a lot on their mind. The question is, when they report their incomes and assets to the Agency, whose name they'll have to report it to. Such a law will only guide them to cover up illegally acquired property. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3514	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Ivanji.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3515	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will speak briefly this time, given that I have been speaking this term in the last days, months and last years. I'll remind the public that G17 plus six months ago has proposed a law on confiscation of property acquired by committing a crime. Today we have this law ahead of us, a law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and a competent ministry, a law that is slightly different from what we have proposed, but in any case, it is a good law and is the basis for a burning topic that we are trying to resolve with this law. We don't care who proposes the law, it's important for us to take a public look at what's a problem in this society, and it's certainly property that's been acquired by criminal acts and rich criminals. We will always do this, we will always point to the public the burning problems and animated both the ministries and the public to direct their attention in this direction and finally solve the problems that are burning in this society, and corruption certainly is. The G17 plus also sharpened this bill with its proposal to provide for this law a criminal offence for which the sentence of imprisonment is scheduled from six months to five years, means the prison sentence provided for by that official who does not report his property or is falsely showing it. The G17 plus for this speaker pointed to the problem of corruption for years. I will remind you that in 2004, I pointed to a problem at the Trade Court in Belgrade and a problem called Goran Kljajevic. Now we have a man who is finally charged with a serious crime. I'll also remind you that I spoke from this pay phone about the "Mobtel" problem, which was in the flagrant example of corruption in this country. And you know how this problem is solved, in the best possible way for this country. That, therefore, was the problem that many people have solved, not just me, but honest and responsible people, honest people who sat in the post office of Serbia and sat down today. So, the people who helped me get things to the end. I thank them for their responsibility and for the altruism they've done and done in this business. Exactly, accepting responsibility hides a magic formula that can defeat corruption. What's a fact is that we still don't have strong institutions and that's why it's up to individuals to take the fight against corruption out on their shoulders and accept that fight. The man, the man with the name and last name, will be headed by an institution that will be called the Anti-Corruption Agency. With the support of the Committee, which consists of representatives of this society, it will be a responsibility to establish an institution of the Anti-Corruption Agency. He must trust the highest public, he must strike the foundations of Serbia that will defeat corruption, and therefore any or any discussion that relativates the role of the Agency, the Board's director and employees in the Agency, is a narration over something that is yet to be born. We certainly need people who can take responsibility and we only need one prosecutor, one judge, one policeman, one journalist, who is moral, professional, independent and brave. As brave as the late Milan Pantic, a journalist of "Evening News", for whom we do not know under what circumstances he was killed and who killed him. In his texts, this man fought against corruption, and once again I appeal to all those responsible that we must find the perpetrator of this serious crime. It is precisely an example of these individuals that will be the cornerstone of the prominent institutions of Serbia's future prosecutors, courts, police and media. Today in this House we are creating a tradition of Serbia's future, and that is why the responsibility is on us, today, for the MPs who are sitting in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3516	Thank you. Mr. Stayer, you've got three minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3517	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People, I will try to speak in principle of two laws in three minutes. I tried to get ready for all six, but it's really impossible. Serbia is the only country in Europe that has yet to have a law on the protection of personal data, but that does not mean that every attempt by the government to propose a law is good and commendable. This law has some shortcomings that the human rights defender pointed to when he submitted fifteen amendments. We will talk about this more when it comes to the debate on amendments, but we think that its amendments should be respected, because they really fix the proposed text and we think that this should support the work of independent institutions. Article 45, which does not allow the information trustee to see the information held by the secret service, public and secret security, is truly discriminatory because it is a practice in other countries, and we want to be like other countries that are going to the EU, that the information trustee has the right to understand and that information because it can draw conclusions from them, in accordance with his work, that he has a special code, etc. We think that this law, and that's our basic grudge, as well as the law on the availability of public information, really cannot be applied without the law on classification of data or the law on secrets, in the jargon, and therefore we insist on its rapid adoption, so that these three laws will be brought together. The situation is similar to that of the Lustration Act, for which, unfortunately, there is still no congregation majority to apply even though it has been valid since 2003. It cannot be applied without opening a secret service file, and clearly there is no political will yet. Another note, when it comes to the law on the confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts, is the establishment of a special police unit that will confiscate property, but in an investigation, and the management of property, which is all the property, as defined by the law, which cannot be proven to be of origin, is given to another administration, the Justice Department. We ask only the question: someone is under investigation, and we see that many people have been arrested for the past few years, and few have been convicted; what will happen to the property of those who are in the investigation? He's been taken away from his property and managed by the Justice Department, the investigation and the trial for several years, and in the end he's not convicted, he's released, so he's innocent, and his assets are reduced—what's going to happen to that? That's why we think that for that process of taking away property that a special police unit does, whoever runs that unit should be chosen a little differently than what is the systematization of jobs in the police. We think that this person who's going to take away property for which there's no proof of origin, and believe me, millions of these people would be in trouble if they had to prove it, I'm not talking about big but small property, we lived in that time and state, so we think that person has to be elected to a public competition, regardless of what it will be, essentially, a police officer. There are people in the police who are able to deal with financial crime, it is not right for a minister or a police director to decide this without a public competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3518	The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic, and you have six minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3519	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the respected representatives of the ministry, in my discussion, I will refer to two draft laws – Proposal for a law on the Anti-Corruption Agency and a bill on the confiscation of property arising from the crime. It's a good thing we have a set of anti-corruption laws on the agenda today, but it might be even better if these bill proposals were dealt with in a comprehensive way in this matter. If we are talking about the fight against crime and at all the fight against corruption, then we are asking a fundamental question – which is why no anti-corruption law has been passed so far, as it stands out as an obligation under the National Anti-Corruption Strategy. It's just amazing that today a law is passed that only needs to replace the body that already exists, instead of dealing in a comprehensive way with this matter. On the other hand, if we are truly talking about the fight against corruption, why are there no conditions so far for working properly and for the functioning of the State Auditing Institution? This bill leads to the financing of political parties and conflict of interest. It is a very narrow view of a broad social negative phenomenon, which we find extremely unacceptable if we know that Serbia is 85th in 180 countries, according to the corruption perception index. So it is understood that regulation of this area and these social phenomena should be approached in one organised way. My main objection to this bill is the way the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency itself has been arranged, which in its very beginning makes it impossible for it to be an independent body. How can it be an independent body if the institutions that should be subject to control propose candidates for the Agency's own Committee? On the other hand, it is also bad for the director, according to Article 16 of this bill, to have this much authority. If you give one in-house authority the opportunity to decide whether or not there has been a breach of this law and to make its own measures, then we are very close to the conclusion that it could be more easily manipulated than the entire collective body, or the nine-member Agency Committee. This provision effectively denies the basic concept and principle of the adoption of this law and that is one of the reasons why my parliamentary group will not vote in favour of this bill. The other objections I have are far less than those two that are essential, and time does not allow me to look back on them. I'd also like to say something about the bill of confiscation of property arising from the crime. In principle, this is a good law, which requires civil law and criminal matter if it would suffer certain changes in terms of provisions relating to the property of an associate witness. We believe that the basic motive for the execution of serious crimes and the crimes of organised crime is precisely the acquisition of financial benefits. What the current law foresees, the one that is now in force, is the possibility of confiscation of property, but it is necessary to prove the link between this property and the concrete criminal act, which in practice can cause a number of problems in terms of the burden of proof. That is why this is the basic reason why in our practice we have very little judgments made in this area. On my knowledge, I believe that only two verdicts have been made in the Special Court, one relating to the defendant Milan Zarubic, for the production of synthetic drugs, who has been ordered to pay $10m and another sentence, which refers to members of the "earth clan", which are obliged to pay 11.5 billion euros for kidnapping victims. This bill, what is good, comes from the entire property that is characterized by the obvious disproportionate to legal incomes, both the perpetrator and the connected persons. In principle, it's about one thing, I could say, a good bill if you'd gone through some changes and that's why it could be an effective means of fighting corruption itself with these changes. The proposal for this law provides for the existence of a special unit within the MUP to deal with a financial investigation, and therefore in cooperation with the prosecutor and the confiscation of assets arising from a criminal offence, and on the other hand includes the existence of one specialised state body that would deal with the management and confiscation of assets. The basic effect of this law is that it prevents the intrusion of illegal money into regular economic flows. That's what's good about this law. The most visible effect of the absence of the application of this law is in the case of Branislav Uskokovic, former director of the "Electro-distribution", Belgrade, who acquired 32 apartments during his position. Meanwhile, he was convicted of a crime of abuse of his official position, and none of those apartments were taken from him in the meantime. I believe it is a good effect of this law and that it can be applied to the members of the bankruptcy, road and football mafia, in that it provides for a provision that the state prosecutor can, within a year of the jurisdiction of the verdict, initiate the confiscation of property proceedings. However, what I find not good about the concept of this law is that it is not seen exactly from its members who are taking away property. Article 29(3) refers to a special procedure, but does not say whether it is a criminal, administrative or litigation procedure. Furthermore, on the basis of Articles 30 and 31, to conclude that it is a litigation procedure, because the preparatory hearing and the main hearing are mentioned, but what represents the biggest and most extensive objection to this law is Article 66, which says that the provisions of this law do not apply to persons who have acquired the status of witness associates until the day of entry into force of this law. In that case, an unwarranted number would be privileged, one category of persons who are also, don't forget, property in a large number of gains precisely because they were dealing with the crimes themselves. There would be a imbalance in the very idea of the categories of persons who own that property. Simply, to be clear to the public, the persons who have so far gained witness status are: Ljubisa Buha-Cume, Miladin Suvadzic and Dejan Milenkovic-Bagzi. So their property would remain intact under the provisions of this law. I'm sorry, I don't have time to look back on other laws anymore, and I'm sorry I overstepped my time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3520	The word has been given to Snow White Sedlar-Kenig.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3521	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the adoption of the proposal for this set of laws, which is on the agenda today, I think is an extremely important step towards improving co-operation with the European Community, that is, as point 9. The EU accession agreements, the suppression of corruption and the rule of law will be possible only by adopting a set just like this. Foreigners of G17 plus really doesn't matter who is the proponent of these regulations, we proposed to the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia on 19 November 2007 the proposal for a law on the confiscation of property acquired by the execution of criminal acts. Unfortunately, the bill has never been found on Parliament's agenda. However, it is necessary to adopt these extremely well-proposed proposals, both technically and in accordance with the comparative law of developed countries, both Europe and the world, with all possible solutions that are truly comprehensive in the prevention of organised crime, and we are witnessing that there are crimes such as bankruptcy, trade, construction, education, etc. Mafia, i.e. organized crime. At the head of all these crimes, as we know, there are various officials beginning with republican, regional, so thank God, we are witnesses, and local officials, we all have them in our midst. So I think there should be a consensus for the adoption of such a set of legal regulations, because we all say that we stand for the rule of law and that our thieves are where they belong, and that's in prisons. The G17 plus party dealt with its own wicked people in our ranks, and we have witnessed that these days one of them is currently running the process. What's extremely good, I would speak in general and I don't have much time, I don't want to repeat myself, with the Anti-Corruption Agency law, is that the authorities and the work of this agency themselves are completely independent. I sincerely hope that the people who will work in this agency will be professional, honest and possess a dose of great personal courage. In order not to speak further, not only is the adoption of these laws, and I am sure that we will adopt them by a large majority of the MPs present here, even more important than that is the consistent and effective application of these laws when we adopt them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3522	The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, I will talk about the bill of confiscation of property arising from the crime. When this law is first read, it is felt that it is solid, that it is suitable for political, or legal theory in practice. Already after the second reading, there are some, I'd say, tending failures, and once again read, it is seen that this law is the most similar to that Swiss cheese with a lot of hollows and, I'd say, each of these holes gives the possibility of any abuse. Let's start with the reason for the law. The promoter says – it is common that the perpetrators of serious crimes, and especially crimes, which are quite certain that they are extremely 'profit' character, to a lesser or greater extent, retain the property benefit resulting from their criminal activity. So we found out here that there are profit and non-profit crimes. Profitative is where, with the placement of the perpetrators of the crime where he belongs, some profit can be earned, unlike the nonprofits, and probably that's how it should be understood. Let's take it in a row. The applicant's intensities are: 1) that no one can retain the property benefit obtained by committing a criminal offence, and2) in order to obtain a significant asset benefit for the budget by confiscation of assets obtained by criminal activity. I'd say there's a bunny in this other bush. Your friends from the International Monetary Fund literally said a few days ago that Serbia spent 500 billion dinars more than it earned before the 2009 projection of the new budget. So they literally told you that you need to cut the budget, and it looks like the substitute, one part of replacing it, is actually from these sources. We don't mind what it's gonna be, but here you are, I'd say, getting into another problem. If the authorities provided for in this bill, public prosecutors, are literally doing their job unbiasedly, many of your friends will be struck by this law, and you will seem to have to give up many of them. But that's your problem now. Furthermore, the declarative explanation that no one can benefit from the offence committed is directly contrary to Article 25(3) and Article 34(3). It's a bill of law. And here's how. Article 25(3) states that – the court may leave a part of the property to the owner if it is questioned by the maintenance of the owner or person he is obliged to maintain. So I wonder, what if there was no crime? What if he didn't have the property that came out of the crime scene? What would the perpetrator of the crime support himself from? What would he support his family from? So if it's the intensity that no one can benefit from the crime they've committed, the least they should do is benefit that perpetrator. I think that's quite clear. Furthermore, the basis for manipulation exists for the institution of temporary and permanent confiscation of assets, especially in art. 27th and 28th of the proposed law. Article 27 refers to the duration of the suspension. And if it remained as provided for in the proposal for a law, there would be a certain vacuum from making a decision on a request for permanent withdrawal to a final solution under this requirement, therefore, to the fact that the assets were taken away. And in this vacuum, too, there may be abuse. You see, a little bit, then a possibility of abuse. Furthermore, Article 28, not to skip it, gives the prosecutor a year's chance, following the judicial end of the criminal proceedings, to apply for permanent confiscation of property. Since it's been left this long, well, I think it's best to leave the unsub, one, two or three years of time that he, two or three times turns this property and after that, it's normal, by that principle, that it's the hardest thing to prove the first million, and after that it's all clear. In Article 34, the court may decide to leave a part of the property to the owner if the maintenance of the owner or the person who supports it is at stake. Understood, it's inaccurate and unclear how much and what part of the property can satisfy the owner, or the perpetrator of the crime, and why is it that someone should be left with some of the property of the crime committed in the first place? If it's for social reasons, there's someone who can think about social welfare and social cases. In the end, who thinks of pensioners who earn their pension and receive it in the amount of nine, ten thousand dinars? Who thinks of workers who receive 15 grand, etc. And finally, the culmination of cynicism is in article 39, where it is said, "The Director may decide to keep the temporarily seized property with the owner's, therefore, perpetrator of the crime, "with the obligation to take care of the property old with the care of a good host. "Lords, you would like to leave the property that the perpetrator has acquired for a crime, if he were to keep it with the attention of a good host, well, that is the height of cynicism. Well, why don't you find him another buyer to sell this property, so a man doesn't bother, because it's much easier for him to keep the money than to keep this property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3524	Thank you. Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3525	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as we have also heard about the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, we must adopt in order to allegedly come to the White Schengen list, whatever that means, even though all our laws and regulations are essentially anti-corruption. We have a Committee to resolve conflicts of interest, we have a Council on Combating Corruption in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which apparently did not work well or was not allowed to work well. And what can this agency do? The work of such a body was called that agency, committee, or council, must follow the political will of the authorities, above all, to move decisively into this problem. The reduction and eradication of corruption, as one wound to every society, is the obligation of all state authorities, authorities and all people involved in public life. This is the most important business and precondition for any progress, and above all progress in the area of economy, especially if we expect foreign investments, strategic partners, business co-operation with abroad, etc. We listen daily to complaints from people from business, whether domestic or foreign, about how it is necessary for them to cross various administrative and legal obstacles to go into any business in Serbia and when they bring it to an end, it is only then that the endless oiling of various screws and screws begins at various levels of government. Since that machine is insatiable, many give up even before they start any job and run off with their heads no matter what. Imagine how difficult it is for our citizens to exercise their rights to work, to study, to treat them, to walk them from institution to institution, to counter to counter, because this corruption has infected the entire society. It all reminds me of the saying, "You have the right to the amount of money." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are witnesses that all parties in the pre-election campaign promise, in addition to a mandatory better life, and a determined fight against corruption and crime, as these two monsters go in the package. What does it look like later in practice? Mrs. Verica Barac, president of the anti-corruption Council at the government of the Republic of Serbia, said in the press that the last contact between the council and the government took place three years ago. So despite all the pre-election efforts and the fight against corruption, the fight against corruption practically does not exist. So-called The National Anti-Corruption Strategy and the Action Plan for its implementation are mainly just the dizziness of citizens of Serbia, while their authors are busy selling out national goods, banks, cements, sugars, etc. Will this agency investigate the affairs that occurred in the past, or will corruption and robbery begin with its formation? I assume that if Mr Dinkic heads the agency, everything will be investigated, clarified and that the guilty will be brought to justice. Based on all this, I conclude that the generator of corruption is in power. The government that's composed in this way, where the kid with his few mandates blackmail the big ones, where the resistors are strictly divided as interesting zones in mob families, where the Prime Minister is just a figure where no one's keeping accounts, where everyone's holding everyone in their hands and blackmailing them, can only be the generator of any kind of crisis and accident. Until this situation changes, there is no talk of a successful fight against corruption and the successful work of this agency. Until then, only a tiny fish or a scapegoat can be investigated and processed, as much as to calm the conscience and the public and some foreign investors. We need qualitative changes in the government itself, for the government to start working in the interests of the people and the state, so that it does not treat its country as its colony. Until that happens, this agency will be just one loose bureaucratic mouth on Serbian mangers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3526	The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic, followed by Mirko Cikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3527	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, Madam Chairman, I belong to that group of people who think there are no first-class citizens. In ancient Greece and Greek mythology, the gods had no absolute power, but above them stood fate or fatum. Above our gods must be the law! Namely, these are the legacy of our past, the keynotes of some of our fates. They were in the leading positions, hiring, assigning, seizing, and, in a sense, giving them various privileges. We, here I think of the SCI, from 1990 to 5 October 2000 were headed by the column of Serbia that dreamed of the possibility, the chance, the justice. These laws will certainly bring us closer to the EU, and I do not think that the EU is something that will bring salvation in itself, but I think it will now give us that opportunity and that chance. Just because it's a market of 500 million people, it says that our capable, intelligent people will surely find their place in such a big country. To be fair, these laws and the EU are only afraid of tycoons, monopolies, political elites financed by these tycoons, those who want to make Serbia a hired worker, a apprentice. These laws and the EU are feared by the lezilebovics, dangos, monopolies, fear hunters in the dim, fear those who in no other way can achieve their incomes, but by treating Serbia as a bag from which they will constantly take. These laws and the EU shouldn't be afraid of our worker, professor, doctor, craftsman, because they worked and when they didn't get paid for it. We want a normal state, no privileged ones, and no privileged ones. We want it to be understood once and for all that politics is not business, but politics is responsibility. Last year, while the SPO wasn't in Parliament, I met a guy from the demonstration, with a walk in 1996 and 1997, when we realized together that it wasn't the way we hoped it would be, that it wasn't better. He replied that he was better off because he was in the state office at the moment, and that man is not a member of any political party of the current ruling coalition. That says enough, and it obliges us to account for the people, that we must go out to the people and that we must say clearly and show in what way we have performed the greatest state function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3528	The word is from MP Mirko Chikiriz, after Marko Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3529	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the SPO has been seeking radical changes in the socio-economic and political system since 1990. The adoption of these laws creates preconditions for radical changes and the fight against corruption, organised crime, bribery, against everything that every citizen of ours can possibly talk about better than a MP. If today you ask any Serbian citizen what is the situation in our society, they will say it is not good. The role of the SPO is also to affirm all the positive values of our society, but also to break those demagogue delusions, that everything in Serbia and what is Serbian is best. It's not good. We've got a lot to change. It is good that everything that EU standards, the UN, groups of countries that have adopted important documents on the fight against corruption, bribery, organised crime are accepted in this package of laws. What follows us now is how these laws will apply in practice, given that we absolutely have awareness of the state of our society. Many mafias are behind bars, but the vast majority is still at large. Wherever you go, any social institution you look, everything inside is rotten. The tariffs exist for everyone, in medicine, in the judiciary, in the police, in the courts, in the public servants, in the urban mafia. How do you deal with that? We believe, we from the SPO, and we argued in the '90s, when these topics were not so current or there was no awareness of how important they are, that Serbia needs "Eliot Ness" today. Whether it will be the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, I don't know, we'll see, but the SPO supports the good intentions and the ruling majority, and it seems to me that opposition parties have made very correct and concrete remarks and suggestions in their discussions. If we continue to work like this, the Serbian Parliament has a chance to become the important social institution and to have the importance it should have in every society. We think that we will also need international co-operation in the fight against corruption, crime and bribery, that this fight must not go beyond the political elite, nor the business system, nor the media, nor the prosecution, nor the police. In a year and a few days, we will have the first report in the National Assembly on what practically happened in the application of these laws. But what the Serbian Renewal Movement is interested in is whether citizens will feel, given that many mafias are behind bars, that indeed the state is seriously going to fight corruption, bribery and organised crime? If so, the Serbian Renewal Movement will always provide full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3530	The word is made by MP Marko Milenkovic, after him Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3531	Ladies and gentlemen, the people's MPs, the citizens of Serbia, are in front of us the extremely bad proposals of the Anti-Corruption Agency, the responsibilities of the legal persons for the crimes and the confiscation of property stemmed from the crime. In the reasons for the adoption of these laws by emergency procedure, you state that this would create all the necessary conditions for the work of bodies and organisations, which would satisfy all the necessary conditions in the accession process to the European Union. What's this about? All conditions for the work of all bodies and organisations already exist, especially in the fight against corruption. Is there a real desire in the government of Boris Tadic to fight corruption? Is it necessary to set up another agency and agency law or government law whenever it does not want to do something accessible for the establishment of agencies, councils, commissions and other unnecessary services that additionally burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia? We come from all this to the conclusion that the proposed laws are only passed because of your haste in Europe, in fact, that as many before them will be just a dead letter on paper, as well as to deal with corruption when you should first deal with individual ministers from the government. The only thing that is needed to fight corruption is the honorable, honest, responsible people in responsible positions of government. It is enough for the police minister to have Dragan Todorovic, at the place of Justice Minister Vjerica Radet, or Nemanja Sarovic, Zoran Krasic or Master of Dejan Mirovic, Gordan Pop-Lazic or Milorad Mircic, master of Aleksandra Martinović, or Slavko Jerkovic, Petar Jojic of Serb Radicals. What agencies, they're stories for little kids. In Article 2. The draft law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, you explain the meaning of the term: corruption, functioner, conflict of interest, gift, etc., as if these terms were new, have not been used so far. What's all this for? Why do you fill the pages of the law with unnecessary, extra text? Or, perhaps, the Government, when there is nothing wise in the bill to write then that the meaning of certain expressions, which I must admit, are well explained. In Article 3, you say that the Agency is an independent and independent state body. How much and to what extent is this possible in the centralized state of Boris Tadic? Generally known is the fact that the state has not provided basic conditions for the operation of any so-called so-called state. An independent institution in Serbia that was formed to stop corruption, control the spending of state money or allow respect for citizens' rights. Such a relationship with the authorities says it will also be transferred to the Anti-Corruption Agency in order to ensure the inability and ineffectiveness of its work. The way in which controversial cases of corruption have been discovered so far and these days is a political campaign, not the serious work of state authorities. The government only acts these bill proposals to fight corruption and criminal acts, because corruption is the greatest darkness where the most discretionary powers are, where there is the most money, not in Zrenjin. What about the military mob, the privatisation, bankruptcy, health, construction? The Anti-Corruption Agency won't solve anything except that once again some mayor might be a victim wolf. Does the adoption of the law on the confiscation of property derived from the crime mean that the villas of Dedinj will be taken away and some of the tens of millions of euros from Jelasic, Djelic, Djilas, Shaper? Surely they will not take away their property themselves, or the property will be taken away from those who are against them. All others will be protected. This law provides for the seized property to be managed by the Management Directorate, whose director will be appointed by the government on a proposal from the justice minister. The Democratic Party again. Where the money is, there's either the Democratic Party or the G17. Indeed, many shortcomings, indeterminateness, indifference, ambiguity, irregularities, paradoxes in the proposed laws of the SRS do not allow them to vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3532	The word is Marina Toman. I would like to inform the National Assembly that the SRS parliamentary group, acting on time and in accordance with Article 37(3), has authorised MP Zoran Krasic to present her in the debate on points 1, 2, 3, 4, 10 and 11. After Marine Toman, the word will be issued by Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3533	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have before us a bill on the Anti-Corruption Agency. Today, when corruption is deeply rooted in our society, especially in systemic corruption, the state of Serbia is in 85th place, together with Montenegro, Albania, Panama and Senegal, India and Madagascar, when citizens have placed corruption in fourth place in recent years, the question arises whether corruption can be resolved with a pompously announced law. The answer is simple – it can't. The ministry's authority would immediately correct me and say, "It's only one of the anti-corruption laws that will be found on the Assembly's agenda." Of course, one of those laws was withdrawn yesterday from the agenda, the Public Procurement Act. But no matter what, unless the laws are applied, and the competent state institutions aren't doing their job right, they don't mean anything, and there's the end and the beginning of such a long-announced charge with corruption. The law could be another dead letter on paper and a vain spending of taxpayers' money, another failed project by the Serbian government that has never lived. So that we don't waste time counting, I'll just mention the State Audit Authority. The government is solely responsible for not providing adequate working conditions, which is not working. The members of the Council of the institution were elected only in 2007, although the legislative deadline expired in May 2005, and the key to their election was given by ruling political parties, which shows how independent these institutions are in their work. The same fate awaits this agency. Corruption is a relationship based on public or private sector empowerment to gain personal or other benefits. Should we stress that, in addition to financing state expenditures from the state budget in Serbia, the most financing is institutional corruption, because the state is not doing its job properly. The government is proposing to set up an anti-corruption agency, a non-constitutional category, instead of proposing a anti-corruption law that would allow systemic access to this matter in any case. This continues with the tradition of forming parallel institutions from both the state, legal and political level. When it comes to this guy's agencies, there are six in Serbia. Serbia has a bulky state administration, bigger than Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary. According to Verica Barac, president of the Anti-Corruption Council: "The Anti-Corruption Agency's story is actually the story of the relationship between the government in Serbia and the institutions. Whenever he wants to hide why institutions are difficult to function, that they do not have the conditions to work, even start working, or when he wants to hide his role in the collapse of institutions, the government proposes a new law that abolishes the existing institution and forms a new one." This law thus repeals the Committee on Conflict of Interest. If the government believes that the problems will be resolved by abolishing existing institutions and forming new ones, making even more chaos and losing time, the inevitable question is whether the government is determined to deal with corruption. Based on this, it's not. On the other hand, corruption leads to the repression of competition, the creation of monopoly and the reduction of investment by increasing investment costs. On the pretext that this law is one of the key preconditions for joining the EU, the government proposes, as has been, many times before, a bad law, rather than seeking better solutions or that existing laws apply. Corruption cannot only be seen as a conflict of interest and the financing of political parties, which is mainly what this law does. Corruption is, above all, the establishment of a rule of law. Therefore, when the government announces that it is ready to deal with corruption, it must show greater determination, to start from the arrangement, in particular the state's apparatus, to start applying the laws themselves, to let the judicial authorities do their job, to make the prosecution independent. The police, the prosecution and the judiciary, the judiciary, have to do their job. If there is no independence from these institutions and no one is responding because it was involved in the corruption process, then nothing else makes sense, and neither does this law. Criticising this law, the SRS wants to show you where you are wrong in this announced corruption deal, and asks you to show the results of the reckoning to the citizens of Serbia instead of the bad solutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3534	The word is issued by MP Vladan Jeremic, after Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3535	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every government is corrupting, and the absolute government, whose witnesses we are today in the state of Serbia, is ruining absolutely. Although a National Anti-Corruption Strategy was adopted in December 2005, I will repeat the data already highlighted by some of the SRS counterparts, which is the data from the international NGO Transparens International, that Serbia, of the 163 states, is taking up 85th place compared to the corruption perception index. To make the irony even bigger, the draft law on the Anti-Corruption Agency was in the assembly procedure as early as October 2006. On the date of entry into force of this law, the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest will cease to apply, and any proceedings initiated before the Republic of the Committee for the Resolution of Conflicts of Interest would be taken over by the Agency. Reminders are working, the Anti-Corruption Council was founded in 2001, but formally started working only two years after that. The problem of true disrespect for this body clearly lies in the fact that only in the period from the establishment until the end of 2005, a total of 1050 plays were delivered, most of all from the privatisation area - 40.7%, the judiciary - 20.5% and illegal construction - 16%. Of course, the most performances were in the capital, which is not a surprise at all, given that more than a decade has been ruled by the "yellow company". The agency could face most of the problems in the area of security procurement. One of the basic reasons is that it is practically impossible to monitor the adoption and implementation of integrity in these affairs. Is it necessary to reiterate that, for the sake of example, the entire Ministry of the Interior is excluded from the application of the Public Procurement Act to a special government regulation adopted in 2005. When it comes to the military, I remind the citizens of Serbia of the famous piece G17 plus, Prvoslav Prlet Davinic and his rule marked by the "Satellite" and "Pancer". The truth of the will, the paved paths, was set forth by his successor in that function. What we consider to be the most important detail, due to which this bill is a simple colourful lie, is that the Agency's work in no way can be independent, because those institutions that should be subject to constant control propose candidates for the Agency's board of directors and thus directly and manage this body. By adopting the law, the government would remove the Council for the Prevention of Corruption, one of its biggest critics, and thus have the opportunity to indirectly influence the work of the newly formed agency. If it's from Boris Tadic, it's a lot. One of the basic principles of democratic legal systems is that before the law, everyone is equal, which, again, in Serbia as we live, is not the case. By putting individuals in a privileged position and putting obstacles to others in the exercise of their rights, corruption completely denies this principle. The essence of corruption is in the moral damage that the state and public authorities make insecure, seductive, ineffective, just what is the definition of the current regime. Thus, the constitution of the state, its meaning and essence, has been compromised. Therefore, it should not be surprising that there is no justice, social justice, economic development, rule of law, no moral basis for society. And what it's like to be when the government is made up of exactly all the other principles, except for the ones I've listed. The root of the problems of corruption, ladies and gentlemen, is in poverty, and this is the result of what we are witnessing from coming to power of Dossov politburo. One of the most prominent mechanisms of corruption, whose exclusive successor is current Economy Minister Mladjan Dinkic, is known as the entry-exit economy. What about the possibility of serious abuse in monopolies, especially in public enterprises? Do you know, at least one board of directors of enterprises that should be privatised or that has already been done without senior state officials sitting in them or, rather, DS and G17 personnel? In recent years, Serbia has largely met with examples of significant underestimation of assets, disrespect for the criteria defined by tender documentation, organisation of so-called ". Dutch auctions, i.e. as probably known by those who deal with the economy, that it is a matter of setting a high price first, and then gradually shrinking, until one of the participants agrees to the offer. Taking bribes, the participation of foreign entities that do not have the right to purchase through domestics, were quite common. The worst of all are so-called. spontaneous privatisations, which are the very core of corruption, since the most unsuspecting theft of public goods by politicians and business directors associated with the ruling nomenclature. Gentlemen of Europe, we are not going to the European Union for this, among other things. We won't, not even because of the fact that the government is a personification of the lack of legal legitimacy and strong institutions. We won't do it for tycoon piles, for tax evasion, for excessive profits, for organized crime connections, for the end of the electoral will of citizens, etc. So I believe that, apart from unnecessary budget spending, the establishment of the Agency will not essentially bring anything into the fight against corruption. The essence, my dear MPs and citizens of Serbia, is the departure of the corrupt regime of Boris Tadic from power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3536	The word is issued by MP Bojan Mladenovic, followed by Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the ruling majority may consider these laws irrelevant or minor, so it brings them together and makes it impossible to devote enough time to the same and to discuss them enough. One of them is the draft law on the Anti-Corruption Agency. Corruption is largely hampered by the economic development of our country, it has been very developed, showing Serbia's ranking in 85th place by the corruption perception index. A score of 5 on a scale of 1 to 10 indicates that corruption is reduced to a bearable extent. Serbia with index 3 shows a high degree of corruption representation, and the high degree contributes to the lack of confidence in official institutions, as well as the poor functioning. It also negatively affects foreign investors and their investment of capital. Corruption has been represented absolutely in all spheres, in the police, in the judiciary, where we have recently witnessed numerous corruption affairs, then, in health care, in education, where the current Index affair was almost an issue, etc. It is necessary to prevent large-scale financial malfeasances, the great possibility of corruption, and these are, among other things, public procurement. It is important that the tenders are finally being explored in Serbia as they really should, i.e. to be public and to participate as many bidders as possible, that in time everyone may be informed of the terms of the same. The purchase of goods and services should finally be economically, i.e. the best combination of prices and quality in Serbia. It must already stand in the way of corruption in Serbia once. The surveillance mechanisms must also be established for police and military procurement. I especially note this, because we know how and how police procurement took place by former Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, when both lighters and badges and shirts were overpaid, etc. In the end, I would also mention an affair about the purchase that took place at the airport, where coffee spoons were purchased at an incredible price of several thousand dinars. Chairs, chairs, etc. were paid several dozen times the real price. The establishment of the Agency will not solve these problems. Corruption will not be eradicated. It exists in all the states of the world and will never disappear. What we have to fight for is that it comes down to a minimum, and with laws like this, it won't work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3538	The word comes from MP Boris Aleksic, after Jadranko Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3539	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to say a few words about the personal data protection law. As you know, this law is of paramount importance. You explained this in the bill of law by means of a need to join the EU, but a little later on. What's the point, by the way? As some know, the project "For a Life Without a Stamp" contains the following data: In the United States, in May 2006, 26.5 million war veterans from Washington's database were stolen. So we all know that they have extraordinary security, in the United States, about the data and that they are far ahead of some other countries. Also, British intelligence controller MI-6, Baroness Daphne Park, told the British parliament in March 2006 that introducing a personal card with a central database in Britain would be a gift for terrorists and that such a centralised database would provide valuable data to organised crime and enemy intelligence services. I would state here that the Commission is 9/11, which was formed to investigate the circumstances under which terrorist attacks against the United States occurred, in its report, i.e. In a public part of the report, two major organisers Muhammad Ata and Halid Sheikh Muhammad were trained in BiH and Kosovo and Metohija. Professor Ross Anderson of Cambridge University, a security expert, notes that police and other agencies can gain access to an unlimited database of personality information and that this is already done through data collected by banks from their clients, via police database, via vehicle registration, etc., including media organisations that participate in all this. When it comes to the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data, you have explained the urgent procedure with the necessity of EU accession. However, it is obvious from this bill that you have not followed the legislation that exists in the EU. If you'd done that, if you'd done your homework, you'd have seen that the furthest in data protection has gone to Great Britain. Great Britain brought the so-called so-called '98.' Data Protection Act, i.e. The data protection law, which very precisely defines this problem. Unlike their law, this law introduces legal uncertainty and we will have very serious problems with it. You introduce certain concepts that are not precise or not well-defined enough, and also, there are certain contradictory norms. In order to correct these gaps, I recommend one analysis of the Centre for the Study and Use of Contemporary Technology Archdiocese of Belgrade-Carlovac, the report was made by Aleksandar Zagorac. I'll deliver that to you, so you can make sure of these details that I listed. I'm going to quote some things, and first of all, Article 3. The proposal, in addition, sets out the terms, which are very important for this law, the handler, the user and the data processor. That's points 5, 7 and 8. So a private company can also be found as a handler. A private company as a handler – that's really fantastic. The bill does not specify any additional conditions for these three categories. I think it's very important. For example, we are now comparing how the English solution contains a lot of information about the handler, the data user or the processor, and it defines it very precisely, unlike our proposal for a law, or Government proposal. It would be necessary to lay down a minimum of the conditions for the accession of legal, or natural persons to such calls. Different rules have been established depending on whether the handler has a seat, or residence in the country, specifically in England. It wasn't done for us. We don't care if it's the manager's headquarters in Serbia, whether the equipment it uses is in Serbia or whether it's abroad. That's inadmissible. Article 5 of that English law states very precisely that such equipment must be on the territory of England or if it is not on the territory of England, or if the data processor is not on the territory of England, there is a certain legislation under which it falls. Different regulations are related to the seat of the handlers. Article 7 refers to the determination of the handles by a special regulation, if the same arrangements are both the purpose and the way of processing. Here we are, here we come up with concepts that are not defined: purpose and way of processing. Unlike our solution, the English law defines both the purpose and the way. Then we have additional problems, because the purpose and the way are related to some other details. Article 19 shall not oblige a person to notify of the way of processing, but the person shall therefore be empowered to amend, supplement and suspend the processing if the processing procedure is not permitted. How does a person who's unprofessional know if the treatment is illegal? Where does it say in a law that's an illegal way of processing? Where he can get knowledge of this about the illegal, i.e. Allowed way of processing? This then continues through a series of members where we have these examples related to the allowed, and then an unauthorized way, etc. I'd like to remind you that this English law is 1998. Now let's get on the trustee. As far as the Commissioner is concerned, we have several points concerning the Commissioner. It shall give an opinion on the establishment of new databases, give an opinion in the event where there is doubt whether a set of data is considered a database etc. If the manner in which the Trustee fulfils his jurisdiction is no closer to being determined, the risk of arbitraryness becomes greater. The trustee here has an important function, we can't leave out. The British law also provides for a tribunal that protects this type of data and decides in the event of a conflict between the trustees and a third party. That's the thing our law would have to contain. I see that the disputed member 45 is mentioned here. This leads to a fundamental question, I have already led him, who is the authority to decide in the event of a conflict between the trustees and other authorities. The data Protection Act should be introduced, as is the analysis. When it comes to Article 47, it is prescribed that handlers and processors take data protection measures, in accordance with established standards and procedures. What are the standards and procedures set? Who determines standards and procedures? So, the British law in the eighth principle of data protection describes in detail the criteria on which it is estimated whether the appropriate level of protection has been achieved – we do not have it. Article 48 of our proposal states: ''The form for keeping records and how to keep the records referred to in Article 1 of this Article is prescribed by the Government. '"How is that possible? How is it possible for the government to prescribe such a thing? So this data has to be contained in the legal proposal, the government can't prescribe it. Article 49 states: the obligation to supply the notification referred to in Article 1 – setting up a database in the case where a specific regulation is specified for the purpose of processing, etc. This provision is too broad, linguistically non-compliant and has not been established, too, basic frameworks related to this regulation. Next, we have issues related to criminal policy. I see that in the same basket are the works that involve the unauthorized processing of data in Serbia and, let's say, the transfer of that data outside the country. These proposals, which I have cited, envisioned, in practice, a fine for violations of that kind that would occur in Serbia, but for the unauthorized export of data abroad should provide for criminal liability – so this is not a joke. You remember that in public certain data has been placed that certain optical discs have disappeared from the BIA, i.e. that part of the BIA archive is exported abroad or handed over to certain foreign embassies, on transfer, and to the media, which should also be examined. I think Parliament should get an answer to that question, if that ever happened. That question could be asked to the head of the BIA, because everything that is said must remain there and written down. So the main problem with this bill is that so-called. The rubber of the norm. What I would definitely suggest is that next time, a little more attention should be paid to the legal solutions that exist in the West, with EU members, if you are already so much calling for the EU and for the EU to get closer, and then to approach the draft legislation. I believe that such laws should not be passed by an emergency procedure, because it would be necessary for the public to be involved. The only thing we have from the public is this analysis of the Centre for Studying and Using Contemporary Technology SPC, and other people simply did not have the opportunity to engage in this problem. Therefore, more attention should be paid to this English law and its solutions, even through amendments, to be included in our bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3540	The word is made by MP Jadranko Vukovic and then by Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3541	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in the light of the proposal for a Personal Data Protection Act, the Proposer points out the essential reasons for such regulation, such as meeting the requirements necessary for EU accession, are further highlighted as a broad-ranging argument in the background of international agreements that regulate such a broad degree of exchange of data on natural persons, particularly regarding security and crime prevention issues, and also points out that such tendencies go in parallel with the creation and development of international criminal rights under international law, humanitarian law and human rights, and, finally, the promoter points out as the only fundamental justification for the broadest spectrum of data processing according to the current Euro-American standards. Why do I point out, gentlemen, these few points that stand in the motional's explanation? For the simple reason, which, when you hear them, is not difficult to conclude that this is also imposed on the outside, or from the West from your Western friends. In respect of this proposal for a law, no procedure is prescribed in the event that a state body, entity or other legal person refuses to request some information. In this regard, the law should regulate what is the procedure to force a legal person to hand over documents, regardless of whether proceedings are pending before the MUP, the prosecution and the court. So, for example. It would be worth defining whether PTT, the post office, has the right to refuse the issue of mobile phone documents, because on the other hand, there is an interest in privacy protection. Often, under the request of an authorised official for insight into the listing, some private interest can be hidden, for economic spying or research, for example, marital infidelity, for which service can be misused. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, we need to stop this kind of service and not meet absolutely all the requirements, if we want to preserve basic self-respect and adhere to universally adopted standards and principles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3542	The word has a folk MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, who is also the last on the list of registered speakers, and you have 10 minutes of the SRS parliamentary group at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3543	The Serbian government has referred Parliament to the adoption of a bill on the protection of personal data, the law on the protection of the state border and the law on foreigners, which is three remaining laws, according to the Serbian government, necessary to make the Republic of Serbia a step closer to establishing conditions for visa liberalisation and putting on the white Schengen list. So Serbia is said in a jargon -- "false" three more Schengen laws to enter Europe. These are the beautiful desires and unfulfilled dreams of the existing government, which has so far served to fill all the ultimatums and blackmails of Brussels and the EU, and in return, Serbian citizens live upstairs. I can't help but remind you of the euphoric speech recently held in this distinguished home by Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic in his learned manner. It is not known whether his speech was funnier or sadder, but the end of his mission, to say the least, was humiliating and shameful for all Serbian citizens. Once again, Bozidar Djelic failed to deceive Serbian citizens with his "encouraged" speech, because as someone said, he could have thought – that Europe would accept us both. But so far, the Serbian government's promises to Serbian citizens that they would be better off if we passed only this law or if we arrested only this war criminal remained a dead letter on paper, while Serbian citizens are living harder and harder. Also, I cannot quote part of Professor Calovski's interview, which, among other things, said -- an American politician said that Serbia can enter the EU only if it recognises first and then establish diplomatic relations with Kosovo. It's all about politicians of the ruling coalition, who have long been told that, but only they can't tell the people, but they deceive them with these and similar laws. The proposed law contains legal regulations compatible with EU-accepted solutions. The SRS, with its president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, believes the law is poor, imprecise, vaguely defined and leaves room for numerous abuses of important data on citizens. Many members of the law are flexible, which limits the protection of human rights. Also, the SRS considers this law to be a thing of the past, because it is important to disable effective protection of personal data. Article 12 of the Law refers to data processing without consent of a person. This member, like many others in this law, is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 42. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia refers to the protection of personal data and states firstly: "The protection of personal data is guaranteed". Article 53. The bill refers to the release of data from the Republic of Serbia and, as such, it is inadmissible, anti-constitutional and insults the dignity of each person. He's contrary to Article 23. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which states that human dignity is unhindered and that everyone is obliged to respect it. So, the Republic of Serbia, as a member of the 53rd bill, can "export" any person's data. The trustee is given unlimited rights and it is he who determines whether the conditions and measures of data protection are met when they are released from Serbia and gives permission. This is inadmissible and scandalous, because only here is a paradise for human rights violations, and also against the constitution. Article 3 The constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that the rule of law is the basic assumption of the Constitution and rests on inalienable human rights. Who here asks the citizens of Serbia? Who cares about their human rights? This law makes Serbian citizens even with goods and can be implemented in the EU. They can be abused, manipulated, blackmailed, threatened, deceived and intimidated by Serbian citizens. It wasn't even in the laws 100 years ago, and then more respected were human rights. The SRS believes that the draft law, the Ministry of Justice, did not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and with the human rights arising from numerous UN conventions. On the other hand, the SRS believes the bill humiliates and insults the dignity of Serbian citizens, making them insecure, frightened. Therefore, respect for Serbia's human rights for the SRS is much more important than obtaining a Schengen visa that, as well as everything the EU offers, is on a long stick, so SRS MPs will not vote for the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3544	National MP Zika Gojkovic replaced his order with MP Nenad Konstantinovic, my omak was not read in time. If you agree, no matter what I say, a list of MPs has been completed, and there is time, a parliamentary group has 70 minutes to get the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3545	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the SPO supports this set of laws, voices the desire to continue with such a step, and supports the new minister's efforts in terms of resolving the problem and creating a rule of law that should be the cornerstone of the development of every normal state that wants to be part of the EU. What I'm trying to say will be very brief. This is part of a general story that shows all the contradictions of the society in which we live and how, as a people, when some painful subjects, such as correcting injustice from the past, have very little distanced ourselves, and therefore, we have taken very modest steps when it comes to joining the EU. In the 1990s, a new economic elite was created, consisting mainly of recents, profiteers, people who had acquired their capital in years while others lost their lives, while many lost their families, while many lost their property. I'd like to ask the chairman, if he can ask Mr. Todorovic to finish. Maybe he knows the names of some people I mention, and I'd like to hear it at the pay phone. I believe that this would be a real refreshment for our citizens, especially those who have said themselves that they have funded the campaign of the SRS, the party I repeat, full of the mouths of the fight for the citizens, the same ones that have been rich in that disaster of the citizens of the 1990s, when they have lost their loved ones. On the one hand, we have this furniture that buys everything he wants. He buys companies, buys people, buys factories, buys political parties, whether it's positions or opposition these 18-19 years, from the start of the multi-party, and on the other hand, we have a group of people who, in the middle of the last century, lost everything they had, just because they thought otherwise, what they had, that they inherited from their families. This is actually one of the greatest absurdities of our society, because it's not a small number of people. About half a million people in our country, and at least so much in the diaspora, is a figure to which the monopolist manifest was much closer to the Bible, to take away property, and to this day the property has not been returned. This is one of the greatest absurdities of our society, but also a major failure of all democratic forces since 2000. Of course I don't want to bid and I'm only going to say one party, I'm going to tell the party I belong to, the SCI, of course, doesn't want to avoid responsibility for what's been missed until now. The extraprofit law may have been a good opportunity to deal with this problem, but unfortunately, the epilogue was famous and it was not satisfactory. What was proposed after 2000 by a group of honest and professional people, headed by Mr. Cedomir Cupic, such as the law of origin and property, is something that represented light at the end of the tunnel. The SPO strongly supported these laws and proposed the laws on opening files, after which many things would be clearer, I suppose, and to Mr Todorovic. I believe that this government has the capacity to do what has been missed, to have a strong rule of law, to fight crime and corruption as a real priority, so that we do not come to the situation in which one Bulgaria is today. If that were not the case, it might be one proof that these countries are still ruled by those who are much closer to the Communist manifest than some other things, but what hurts these citizens much more would be proof and an indication that there is no sincere desire to correct one of the greatest injustices in the history of our people. The SPO and the coalition we belong to is ready to correct these historic mistakes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3546	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, do they want the words of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, and Hope Kolundžija.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3547	Mrs. Komic, a wonderful camera atmosphere, present MPs who want to participate in the debate and created conditions to say something in 20 minutes about several of these laws that are connected. At the beginning, I would like to comment on something that is an integral part of the reasoning of the agenda, which has been minor since 25 January 2001, which is here at the hands of the EU. Here we are now offered several laws – we are within our reach of the EU. Let me remind you, in 2001 some experts came and said – the banking system has to be sorted out. Someone thought it had to be arranged. However, he did have the sorting of destruction we have to take care of it the way it is in Western Europe. And so they did with us; they crack this in Europe, the banks go, the banks go, who knows where this is going to stop, but that expert told us -- there's no way the state can intervene to protect the banking system. We've heard that America's billions apart to preserve the banking system! Any kitten can be an expert in Serbia, says I found money in Cyprus. When asked him where the money was, he was asked by Zoran Djindjic, asked by Vladan Batic, asked by Velimir Ilic, asked by 'Fia', 'Bia', 'Mia', 'Cia', 'Dia' – brought 78 crates with orders 10, 54, no money! I get the impression that Mr. Cvetkovic, who is probably prime minister, should bring out something that is our brand, that is Mladjan Dinkic. He can take Radovan Jelasic out as well. Jelasic can go to Germany to take care of their central bank, and Mladjan Dinkic, as an IMF and World Bank, can go to help Bush, Obama, whoever he wants. He can help whoever he wants. Of course, they might as well take Djelic because he's been there a long time, remember that -- come on, let's go, go. On the first Monday, he got his nose, in Brussels, shut up, and he can't show up. Just to remind you, this is all about a subject called corruption, because it's a prototype of a modern European man, who, in two years' time, with and without help from his aunt, has earned 11.5m euros. He became a synonym for a successful man, a true story of the American dream. In those conditions, we need to talk about corruption, talk about fighting corruption. Mrs. Comic, if by any chance it were written in one of these draft laws just a list of 2001 affairs to this day, believe me, a three-hour speaker could be behind this speaker and change one liter of water, just to indicate which affairs they are. Corruption - wherever you turn. What's the source of corruption? Something's a source, something's a motive, something's a consequence. Here, when a mistake is made, there are laws like this. Since 2001, the production of agencies, directorships, governmental - non-governmental, auxiliary, such, as well as any other body that can also be para-state bodies, which can also be something that you boast about the reflection of decentralisation, departementisation. You can say all that, but there's one small problem. You've never wanted to hear what this pay phone says on purpose. Only at the end of his term as National Assembly President, Predrag Markovic admitted -- it is weak from so many laws, when none is applied. Be assured that these laws, too, are likely to preserve those 127 votes, will be voted, but they will not essentially apply. To be precise, selective law enforcement is not the law, the source of all our abuses is in this type of party state. It changes its shape, but I get the impression that the worst keeper of sheep's flock is a wolf, and you convince us that he best protects. Why? He's slaughtering one at a time. That's what you're telling us. And then we have a situation where the Council is replacing itself with the Agency, and to tell you the truth, we don't need either the Council or the Anti-Corruption Agency. Why? Corruption is born right where the state is strongest. Reports to the government, reports to the ministries, reports to all those places where a man should humbly come in, search and receive some national precedent, and when asked for it, he is aware that he does not meet the requirements. It has to meet only one condition, it can be party, it can be material. Now from the presidency, let me inform you why there is no Public Procurement Act on the agenda. This law is not on the agenda because some of the majority have estimated that at this point it is too obvious that the immovableities are being thrown out of the Public Procurement Act. It is not easy to find that behind it are the furniture of people who were in power and who, thanks to the location, provided floors, not apartments, but floors. And if you throw out apartments or a business space, I'm glad, but there's a chance we'll talk about -- how someone abuses their office, some principal, to close a few contracts on the lease of business space with one mayor. No one sees that he has so many apartments and receives several thousand euros a month, all clean, all legal. Here he comes and swears, talks, criticises someone there, and doesn't look at himself. These are our problems. Now, I would like a little, in turn, because there are people who have worked on this bill – the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. What's basically criminal responsibility? Individual criminal responsibility, right? A natural person who commits a crime, in order for it to be responsible, it has to be reasonable, it has to be "guilty," right? How are you going to determine that with a legal person? You're now saying -- this is a specific form of criminal responsibility, this is an example of some objective responsibility. The legal person should also answer in the case where the responsible person is ineligible, and when the responsible person, at the time of the question of legal liability, no longer exists. What is the criminal responsibility of a legal person? You've seen where the frog is wetting or the horse is wetting, so you've picked up something, to say, to imitate. Why didn't you tell us about the experience of such laws in Western Europe? There's no experience. The countries are struggling over this, they'd like to imitate something that exists in America, but with civil responsibility, and they'd like to imitate what exists in the UK, and you who've been working on this, have you made any decisions of the House of Lords? Have you seen any legal views on this issue? They've been struggling for years with the complicity problem, what to do, how to do? Are you aware that you have entered something called a joint criminal enterprise, that someone as a collectiveity should be responsible for the actions of an individual? What is the purpose of punishment – to stop criminal acts? What is your purpose in this bill of law? To kill a legal person, to fine him, to put him on a list, to prove what? That because someone isn't close to you, they'll come to that list and they'll be punished. I would not open these other issues to the lack of this bill. This law cannot fundamentally be in our legal system. Furthermore, what law can be regulated when it comes to certain details concerning freedom of rights and obligations of man and citizen? You can only regulate the way and procedure, and you can't regulate the conditions. You've been over it in all these laws. You entered directly to regulate something that simply does not exist as an option to regulate it, because it has been raised to a much higher level by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but you are pushing. How can you talk about some personal data protection law when you have abuses at every turn and no one is responsible for abuse? A few months ago, a full discussion was published in the paper between two people, and it was a telephone conversation. Then he says if you want to click on the Internet, you'll get an audio version. Did someone go to jail for that? No, I don't. Why? Because that's what the state does through the National Security Council. You think we don't know this Rakic is the leader, not this Vukadinovic. Where will Vukadinovic lead, aman? You know, we have a problem with the representatives of the government how to discipline them, how to force them to obey the law. How can the Assembly force the government and the ministries to comply with the law when this assembly is not autochtonous in law-making. There are parcels here: if this law is passed, Mićko will be the director of the Bookshop, and if we do not declare it – he will not. We have to declare that this one would be in the oil industry, and if not, then it won't be the one in the RTS. When someone comes and calls for law in the National Assembly, we can only smile. Why? It's just a reflection of politics here. As long as politics works this way, there's no right. What black right can there be? What judge can apply the law when he's afraid of some party president getting a sneeze? He's gonna wipe it off. These are some things that simply don't make sense to me. Why do you lift your legs there when no one's making you? As far as this property-deprived law is concerned, at first I told you, these two criminal laws could have been arranged from the point of view of responsibility, to explain this confiscation of property benefits, and this procedural in the process of making a solution to temporary and permanent seizing and a special regulation that would resolve the issue of the Directorate. You've been going a few steps further. You've messed up what lighting, ice-colding and investigation is. Come on, you got it all wrong, but you didn't have any idea the provisions of the new Code of Criminal Procedure where the investigation is going to the DA's office. How can a unit within the police department be involved in an investigation? I'm guessing some illuminating, illuminating, and acting on the orders of an investigative judge, which basically means certain investigative actions, is a transfer of certain investigative actions. You don't know what a legal person is. The state is a legal person. Is the ministry a legal person? How can the Directorate be a legal person and the Ministry is not a legal person? Explain. I know he's been able to do anything since Dinkic got here. I guess you have a vault, and that's where your accounts are kept. You're a little confused. Who's in charge? It's a state body. Since when is the minister a state organ? The Minister is just an in-house body of the state authority. What, God forbid, if the minister dies? So what do we do? These are all some questions that from the foundation don't allow these laws to be passed. You say Schengen visa, white Schengen, yellow, green, it doesn't matter, but don't, people, be more Catholic than the Pope. Understand one thing, Italy is thinking about how to pass the law to stop these things happening by Romanian citizens staying in Italy. Officially, they are in the same EU community, but they have a problem with how to protect themselves from certain acts, from some phenomena. You keep pushing, there's Djelic, we're going, we're coming, we're in the Atlantic Ocean. Don't, people, do it! Show some tenacity when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, show tenacity when it comes to the social situation of citizens in the Republic of Serbia. You don't want to talk about it. You need a test balloon, fog. You are obstructing life in Serbia, do you understand? You sit there, waiting for the noise to pass, by the way, if you can fool some medium, that MPs, of course, per you, are obstructing, even when they come to an institution in charge of talking. Use some logic. There is no lady here, she appears more on the media as a MP than in the National Assembly. He's going to Pink, he's going to B92, he's giving lectures. Here, come to the congregation and say it. No, that's where you're nailed. Why? You have no attitude, no opinion, no ideology, hold the water until the masters leave. We're waiting. Where is this Bozidar Djelic to explain to us? He ripped it here when he was the Law on the financing of political parties, we couldn't calm him down. He's gone. He's running away from the subject. What do they give us as a solution? Inapplicable. We've said a million times from this pay phone that you don't adopt a bill like this, in practice you won't be able to implement it. No, it's your tactics to pull him apart capillaryly, allegedly wondering as many as possible about something, and in fact nobody's wondering about one political party, five tycoons, one state service that flies all this, makes hate, fights, deals, negotiations. Why? So that the government is supposed to be preserved. Where's the state? Where's the people? At one of the next points of the agenda is the State Border Act. Do you know where your state line is? He doesn't even know that minister of yours. He says, "We've got one plane, we've got it fixed." Don't, people, pull these bill proposals and let life be discussed, and you've started to sort out corruption in some way, but just keep going. If you could get something in Zrenjanin, look at the Novi Sad, look at Belgrade, look at the Assembly, it's no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3548	The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3549	Dear People's MPs, Madam Minister, Madam President, I would just like to say very briefly that the MP group "For European Serbia" and DS will be pleased to vote in favour of this set of laws that represent the legislative rounding of a very important issue, as regards the implementation of a national strategy in the fight against corruption and organised crime. I have to tell you that Serbia's interest is to deal with corruption, because we all have an undivided view that corruption is a huge evil that devours the very foundations of democratic society, including the economy, and I don't think there was any difference in that. The differences have arisen over how it can be done. We think that by rounding this area with adequate laws, we create a basis for fighting, a serious fight, against these monsters in this society, and we do not hide that one reason, too, is to bring our legislation into line and in this area to European Union standards as a presumption of our accession to the European Union. At the same time, we do not hide that it was important for us to bring these laws into line with these standards, and they are in this sense in line and by adopting these laws, we are making one important step towards speeding up European integration. In the debate in particular, I believe that there will be room for careful amendments to be considered and that, by accepting some amendments to these laws, the texts of these laws will be corrected.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3550	Thank you. Since the list of parliamentary groups is no longer registered for the word, before I conclude the search and before we speak to the Minister, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3551	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs, I was pleased to follow the debate on the draft laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was prepared by the Ministry of Justice. At the very beginning, I would like to thank those MPs who have recognised the importance of passing these laws, primarily because of the internal element, i.e. harmonising our regulatory system with regard to the protection of personal data and the more effective fight against organised crime and corruption. Another important reason, which is also highlighted here, is the harmonisation of our regulations with European Union regulations and facilitating the travel of our citizens to European Union countries and other countries. I feel that I am obliged at the end of this debate in principle to give an explanation for these draft laws. As regards the proposal for a law on the protection of personal data, I would like to stress that, in addition to the Ministry of Justice, representatives of relevant state institutions, such as: the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Telecommunications, representatives of the Security Information Agency, the Military and Security Agency, as well as the Office for Association of the European Union. Also involved were representatives of the Commissioner for Public Information, then prominent law professors and representatives of the NGO sector. I stress that this bill was created as a result of the harmonisation of existing working versions of the data protection law developed by the Ministry of Interior, on the one hand, and the Centre for the Promotion of Legal Studies, as an NGO, on the other. The provisions of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Persons in relation to the automatic processing of personal data were taken into account when the law was drawn up. Also, the bill was implemented by Directive 95/46 of the European Parliament as a basic international document governing this area. The said opinion was given by representatives of the European Commission and the Council of Europe, who positively expressed themselves on the above-mentioned bill. In front of the Council of Europe, Graham Sutton, who took part in writing the UK Data Protection Act. I agree with the presentations of MPs who stressed the importance of the adoption of the law on the prohibition of discrimination and the law on the classification of official data. The first law prepares the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, and as regards the law on the classification of official data, the National Security Council concluded that it had instructed the Government to approach the preparation of this act. On the basis of the provisions of the proposal for a law which restricts access to certain documents to the trustee if this would seriously jeopardise the interest of national and public security, the defence of the country, the conduct of a pre-criminal or criminal procedure while these reasons continue, I would suggest that this provision is fully taken over from that Convention of the Council of Europe and the Directive. Also, this attitude is taken in other international documents that treat this area. With regard to Article 16 relating to the processing of particularly sensitive data, I would point out that this provision has been fully taken over from Article 8. Directive 95/46. This data may be collected and processed with specific protection and processing measures must be specifically marked. The trustee has an absolute right of insight and an official duty. The consent shall be granted exclusively in writing. With regard to the conflict of jurisdiction between the two authorities, our positive regulations and Article 167. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has regulated the Constitutional Court's decision to do so. As regards the Proposal for a Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency and on this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties, I stress that the reason for the adoption of the law is the obligation arising from the relevant internal rules, such as the National Anti-Corruption Strategy adopted by the National Assembly, in which many of the MPs present participated. Article 6 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribes that conflict of interest is governed by the Constitution and the law, which we do today. On the other hand, the obligation to adopt these regulations has been established by the United Nations Convention against Corruption, whose ratification has been attended by many of you today. This obligation stems from the country's recommendation to fight corruption and the Council of Europe, which are mandatory for our country. Representatives of relevant state institutions, professional associations and the non-governmental sector, such as the 'Transparent Serbia', participated in the draft law. The bill's expertise was done by Drago Kos, one of Europe's top experts in the fight against corruption and by President GRECO, means the countries' associations to fight corruption in the Council of Europe. On the round table, attended by representatives of all authorities and organisations dealing with the fight against corruption, Mr Kos publicly stated that this law would serve as an example to all countries that want to deal with the fight against corruption. The draft law regulates that the Agency is an independent and independent body, which is required to submit an annual report on the work of the National Assembly, which is responsible for its work. As I presented in the previous presentation, the bodies of the Agency are the Committee and the Director. All three branches of the Authority, as well as relevant professional associations, are represented in the Committee of the Agency. Desiccated conditions for the selection of members of the Committee have been laid down. The second body is the director, who makes decisions on the violation of this law. Its powers are not absolute because it is limited by the Committee as a collective body. The Agency shall have the obligation to verify the timeliness and accuracy of the data from the reporting of assets on the basis of the established annual plan. The Agency does so on the basis of a play. Let me point out the authority of the Budgetary Inspectorate and the State Auditory Institution, which also check the work of the Finance Authority, on the basis of the established annual plan, which means that they do not check all the authorities each year. With regard to the circle of persons who have an obligation to report assets, I point out that this is a concept regulated by the United Nations Convention against Corruption and refers exclusively to public officials. With regard to the provisions of the draft law allowing the functioner to perform a function in the body of the professional association, for example in sports activities, I stress that only with the agreement of the Agency may he be a member of the association, but he cannot receive compensation for his work and cannot participate in the bodies of the management of such a society. With regard to the proposal for a law on confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, I point out that its adoption is a reason for the need for a more efficient and comprehensive fight against crime, especially organised crime and corruption. With existing legal solutions, this institute is difficult to achieve in practice, which I explained in the previous presentation. The need to pass this law is also in our country's international obligations, such as the programme adopted by the European Union to join our country, as the European Partnership for Serbia is called. In the draft law, our prominent law professors, representatives of the court and the prosecution who are involved in the processing of organised crime, police representatives and the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. Experts in the Council of Europe have given an opinion on this bill. The bill provides for the establishment of units for investigation within the interior ministry as a specialised organisation unit of the ministry, which will operate on the orders of the competent prosecutor to detect and temporarily confiscate property acquired by crime. In order to appoint the Head of the Unit, it is necessary to obtain the opinion of the Republic Public Prosecutor. Based on the good results in the work of specialised bodies for the management of confiscated assets established in many European Union countries, we have defined ourselves as such a concept as the legislator of the law. This is also due to the fact that the management of temporarily seized property acquired by crime is not an adequate task of the courts, and that this would allow the management of the seized property to be managed in order to preserve its value in the manner provided for in the draft law. The draft law provides for a special procedure for temporary and permanent confiscation of property. It is a special procedure whose procedure is detailed in this draft law. I point out that this bill is purely procedural. The property is not taken away by the police, but by the court alone. When the draft law was drawn up, we kept an eye on the practice of the European Court of Human Rights and these views were translated into the provisions of this law. As for the draft law on the liability of legal persons, I would like to stress that criminal law professors, representatives of the court, prosecutors and police have participated in its adoption. Also, an expert on the Council of Europe has been added to the bill and a public debate has been organised. The adoption of this law is the fulfillment of the recommendations of GRECO. The international conventions, which also ratified the assembly, envision the responsibility of legal persons. These are the Council of Europe conventions, as is the Criminal and Legal Convention against Corruption and the UN Convention, such as the Convention against Corruption and the Convention against Transnational Organized Crime. The reason for its adoption is the fact that, in most modern democratically regulated systems, the responsibility of legal persons is institutionalised, and that its adoption is particularly important in the fight against economic and organised crime, as well as the suppression of the monopoly of certain economic operators whose responsible person is benefiting from the offence. In the end, I would point out, regarding all these laws, that the members of GRECO on 13 June 2008 in the Report on Harmony for the Republic of Serbia on the implementation of recommendations they had previously made regarding the fight against corruption, found that of the 25 recommendations 12 was partially met, and that their full implementation requires the adoption of laws that are on the agenda today. I would also like to stress that the Ministry of Justice will carefully and in detail consider amendments to the bill, unrelated to what parliamentary group has proposed, and that all amendments that contribute to the improvement of the provisions of this law will propose to the government to adopt them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3552	I thank Mrs. Secretary. I conclude a joint principled search on draft laws: on the protection of personal data, the confiscation of property arising from a criminal offence, on the liability of legal persons for crimes, on the Anti-Corruption Agency, on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political parties and on a single review on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Additional Protocol with the Convention on the Protection of Persons in relation to the automatic processing of personal data relating to supervisory authorities and cross-border data flow. Let me inform you that I have visited His Holiness the patriarch Paul, in the name of all of you and in my name. I didn't inform you about it before because I didn't know if you'd agree to me telling you, so I made a deal with him. Of course I've also had contact with an expert team that monitors his health. He is currently in a stable state and has told us that at a difficult time and a time of discord he wants, first of all, a style to be our success. Now I suggest that there be a break by 15.00 hours. [[After break – 15,15]] Dear People's MPs, I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for the sittings to be attended by Dr Slobodan Ilic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, and I welcome him, as well as Mr Zoran Cirovic, Assistant Minister for the Ministry of Finance, whom I also welcome, as well as Minister Mrs Verica Kalanovic. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly will be carried out in a joint single search on the draft laws on: the confirmation of the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the "Belgrade Highway and Passways", the confirmation of the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "Trainline on Belgrade", the confirmation of the Framework Treaty on Loan concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the principled search on the proposal for a guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to the German financial institution KFW under the responsibility of the JP "Electroprivred Serbia" (The measures of environmental protection in thermal power plants on lignite). Before the search opens, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for the parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to the parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the parliamentary group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group – one hour, 9 minutes and 36 seconds; the G17 Plus parliamentary group – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group – 25 minutes 12 seconds; the MP group "Forward, Serbia" – 24 minutes; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the LDP parliamentary group – 15 minutes and 36 seconds; the New Serbia parliamentary group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; a parliamentary group of minorities – 8 minutes and 24 seconds and a PUPS group – six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to file a statement if they have not already done so, with a number of MPs. Consent to Article 149a. point 3 and Article 140(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a guarantee law to the EBRD FOR "Belgrade highway and bypass" (joint single search with the 6th and 9th points and joint principled search with the 12th point of the agenda) Do the proposing representatives want a word? By hurting the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3554	In accordance with Article 226. It would be good to be informed that we will continue to work, given that the transfer from the United Nations General Assembly leaves about 16 hours in our time. We asked around, given the procedure, it's very likely that it'll be somewhere from 16:30 and that the direct television broadcast of this session will not be. In addition, it decides on issues that are of paramount importance for our country and I think that we simply need to adopt a proposal to work until that time, so that we can monitor what is happening in the General Assembly of the United Nations. If nothing else, since we didn't have a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija here, let's see what we do there.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3555	I'm waiting for information when and if there's going to be any involvement and as soon as I find out, of course, you'll be notified and we'll discuss further work. There's been an announcement that we'll be able to engage in a direct transmission and we'll take a break as long as it takes. In accordance with Article 37(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the SRS parliamentary group will discuss the matter. 5, 6, 9th and 12th agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Session in 2008 to represent MP Vladan Jeremic. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Mrs. Kalanovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3556	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have four draft laws on the approval of agreements concluded with international financial institutions. Realisation of these loans implies financial support for four major national projects. Just now, the question has been asked what kind of loans it is. It is two major infrastructure projects related to the city of Belgrade, one for part of a tour around Belgrade, one for the rehabilitation of the Gazela bridge, one for the construction of 500 apartments and one project for the improvement of the environment at thermal power plants. So it's about projects that will benefit from realisation, in a direct or indirect way, a large number of Serbian citizens. The first is the draft law confirming the loan framework contract, signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe on 18 December 2007. The loan is 10m euros. The funds are intended to build about 500 housing units, 400 housing units for refugee or former refugee households and about 100 housing units that cannot otherwise provide housing space. The final solution to the permanent housing of refugee families is the goal pursued by each government. This loan allows us to achieve this goal faster and enables better and better quality lives for our citizens and faster their overall involvement in the life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The funds provided for in the Loan Framework Agreement are granted in accordance with the rules on the loan of the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and provide the possibility of a choice between a variable and a fixed interest rate, as well as a very favourable period of five years. The project's deployment is entrusted to Serbia's Building Directorate. The second is a bill confirming the Treaty on the Guarantee of the "Belgrades on Belgrade" between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which was signed on 19 October 2007 at 60m euros. The same day was signed an agreement on the financing of the "Belgrade Exchanges" between the European Investment Bank JP "Serb Roads" of 60m euros. With the guarantee agreement, the Republic of Serbia guarantees the execution of all loan bonds to the borrower, i.e. The JP "Serbian Roads" towards the European Investment Bank on the basis of a financing contract. The total value of the project is 136.5m euros. The funds are realised at 60m euros through a loan from the European Investment Bank, JP's own funds "Serb Roads" with 19m euros, a loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development amounting to 55m euros and the European Agency for Reconstruction of 2 and a halfm euros. The project aims to build a section A bypass around Belgrade, through the end of a tenkm highway with two lanes from Batajnica to Dobanovac, which is an integral part of Corridor 10 in the western part of the city, including a project, supervision, inspection, traffic security and the construction of charging stations. The third proposal for a law confirming the guarantee agreement''''Belgrade highway and bypass' between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed in Belgrade on 15 November 2007, amounting to 80m euros. On the same day, the Treaty was signed on the loan of "Belgrade highway and bypass" between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the JP "Serb Roads" to the amount of an 80m-euro loan. With the guarantee agreement, the Republic of Serbia guarantees all monetary commitments to the borrower, i.e. The JP "Serbian Roads" towards the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development under the loan agreement. The project is worth 80m euros and represents the entire loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The goal of the project is to rebuild the accompanying structures and access roads of the Gazel Bridge at the intersection of the E70 and E75 highways, reconstruct and improve access roads and R251 circular route and end the A bypass around Belgrade. Realisation envisioned by the last two laws will significantly improve the infrastructure in Serbia and, as we have already said many times, a tour around Belgrade will significantly relieve traffic in the capital and improve the quality of life of citizens not only of the capital, but also of citizens of the whole of Serbia. Fourth, the draft law on granting guarantees to the German financial institution KFW, the Credit Bank for Development, under the responsibility of the JP "Electroprivreda Srbija", in the project of a measure of environmental protection in lignite thermal power plants. The loan and financing agreement between KFW "Frankfurt on Main" and JP "Electropriority of Serbia" was signed on 2 January 2008. The value is 36m euros. The project aims to rehabilitate the remote heating system mills on TE "Nikola Tesla A" and install the ash collection and transport system to TE "Kostolac". In Serbia, as is known, there is a major problem of environmental pollution and in several cities our citizens live in constant fear for their own health and for their children's health. This loan allows to significantly improve the efficiency of bar protection in the area of lignite thermal power plants. We hope to implement these and similar programmes in order to protect the health of Serbian citizens in the coming period. Dear MPs, in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia, I presented a very short proposal for ratification of these four contracts. Once again, I note that very important projects are designed to finance these funds. I call on you to support them, because the great interest of ratification of these contracts is that of the realisation of this project by the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3557	I thank Mrs. Verica Kalanovic, Minister of the NIP, for the reasons of the bill. I'm asking if the committees want a word. No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? An authorised representative of the SRS, Mr Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, it is a good thing that today, at last, in the assembly procedure, a set of draft laws has been found. However, at the very beginning, I have to express a surprise and a little impression that the representatives of the government are, in some ways, unserious towards the MPs of the Assembly, and based on these materials that we received during yesterday and today. I remind you that, first of all, for the government representative in the National Assembly, during the examination of the proposed legislation, Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, was appointed, and then the situation turned around, and the next announcement was that the government's proposal would be represented by Slobodan Milosavljevic, the minister of trade, and we eventually reached the government's meeting debate today as Minister for the NIP Verica Kalanovic. So, at the very beginning, let's clear up some dilemmas, if there are any. As for the SRS parliamentary club, we believe that these bill proposals, which we are considering this afternoon, are of paramount importance to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. However, we find it inadmissible that for eight years already since those famous five-octobar revolutions and the story of the inflow of foreign money, etc., with some extremely important projects waited, I say, for eight years. The basic problem in this whole story is, above all, that we have, in practice, pointed out in every way, that the state of Serbia is absolutely not in a position to rightly send out such projects as are necessary for better conditions and better life for Serbian citizens. I say this for reasons, and the MPs themselves can see when it comes to these proposals of the law, that the word most often mentioned is a loan, i.e. a loan, and that is what shows that the state of Serbia in this economic aspect and sense absolutely did not work out in the right way over the past eight years. That is why we are forced to, in some ways, both citizens and states in general, by various European monetary funds, banks etc. Slowly, but surely, we draw attention to ourselves, and by doing so to all citizens of Serbia, I would say, a silk gaittan that will tighten more and more day by day and we will be in a position to find ourselves as a state in one debt slavery. We want this opportunity to make it clear to the citizens. So, on the 15th of November 2007, when this loan agreement was signed for the Belgrade highway and bypass project with the EBRD, we heard that most of the funds would be used for the reconstruction of the Gazel Bridge. All of us who are practically passing through this traffic every day know that real success and happiness is when we move from this side to the New Belgrade side. Also, the famous "Belgrade around Belgrade" from Batajnica to Dobanovac. What I want to point out on behalf of the SRS this time is that we believe that these bill proposals, regardless of the essential thing, and it is about better conditions, can bring more problems to the citizens of Serbia, however, and in this sense, the return of these funds that the Republic of Serbia has taken over during all contracts with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, i.e. with the European Investment Bank and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. As the vast majority of Serbian citizens know, the situation in the country in this economic sense is truly catastrophic, and we believe that this is due to a completely wrong concept based on one part of people, therefore, to be richer even richer, while the poor should be even poorer. This is one therapy that is seen in this sudden liberalisation of the market, i.e. the criminal sale of state property in the privatisation process and the firm commitment of domestic currency to the euro. We have witnessed the execution of such an economic policy these last few days. All this has led to the fact that unemployment in the Republic of Serbia is what it is, and you know that this figure is measured by a number of nearly a million people. You know that the external trade deficit has increased since 2001-2007, just at the time these pro-European, pro-Western forces are in power, over 41 billion dollars, and the foreign debt has increased from 10 billion to 25 billion. You also know that inflation rose to 200% from 2001 to 2007, and that what may be the most impressive indicator, public spending of over 50% of GDP, i.e. that citizens have increased their debt from around 147 euros to over 500 euros over the past few years. What is catastrophic and what most suggests is that the economic policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia is the rate of economic development of the country below the growth rate of the countries in the region, and let's say far below the rate of Estonia, Lithuania, Russia and China, which means that we are still lagging behind, i.e. there is no possibility of increasing living standards. All of this is caused by the growing social tension in society. So, the difference between former imperial slavery and our today, as we point out, is that, practically, everyone who has reached certain comfort does not expect their narcissism to change small differentiation, so in the last 20 years (this is some data that is interesting and for participating in the debate of the next MPs, and also for the citizens who follow this) and the poorest countries of the world on the borrowed one dollar paid interest nine dollars without paying off the principal at all. Undeveloped countries' debts have grown to $2,400 billion. And no one can explain anymore how these debts will be paid back, and that is, I don't want to be pessimistic, this way of leading economic policy, which they will expect, unfortunately, and Serbian citizens. All the reforms so far, which can fall into these proposals of the law on the validation of these contracts, mainly create a false picture of the state being ready to face all these challenges that they face and these capital investments. I think this is completely wrong, precisely because credits absolutely can't do any good, because these loans have to come back eventually. Given that the economy does not participate in the required percentage in the full Republic budget, it is very difficult to expect that we will be able as a state to make all commitments, i.e. to return money on the basis of these contracts, loans, loans. You're so-called. Some credits, as they call them today, are practically, I will repeat again, what is the basis of everything – only shackles for one debt slavery in which we are. Also, I call on us here as the most legislative body, as the National Assembly of Serbia, to approach these laws today, as well as anything else that awaits us in the area of economic policy. Because, as you know, the last few days, because of these turmoils that are happening on the financial market of Europe and the United States, we should be prepared for a very bad scenario that can also happen here. I don't think the market is fully prepared to take into account all the fundamental macroeconomic factors arising from this, let me put it this way, credit crisis. With regard to the dangers that could still arise from such draft laws, this is the greatest danger for countries in the region, i.e. for the Republic of Serbia, this narrow credit market, so that any new borrowing or restructuring of foreign currency debt could further make it difficult to place the state and citizens. I believe that there are several reasons for the current growth in external borrowing, which is that these export-oriented companies also started using credits indexed in foreign currencies as a natural protection against the strengthening of the course, then these negative differentials and interest rates favouring loans in foreign currencies and borrowing on other financial markets, so-called. "Keri Trade." Most of these new greenfield projects are only partly financed from share capital, i.e. most investments are provided through loans, non-resident banks or inter-corporate loans. So, I will repeat in the end, as far as the SRS is concerned, we are for everything that will enable Serbian citizens to have better and better quality conditions of life, but we point once again to the destruction of economic policy, that is, this policy of taking credit, loans, because you know, as it is said, we can only wish for the biggest enemy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3559	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, you have accepted the resignation of Veran Panic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The report by the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation found that the resignation was the case from the Article. The 88th century 1st point 2) of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, so it proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 3 of the same law, determine the termination of the mandate of this MP. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office, before the end of time, was elected MP Veran Panic, elected from the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj's election list, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. The Rules of Procedure were advertised by MP Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3560	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 104 concerning the Article. 92, 93 and 226. Yesterday I went out for a pay phone, advertising the Rules of Procedure, that is, taking off the agenda of a very important point, it was a law on the rest and write-off of obligations based on basic health insurance. I also brought stenographic notes to simply remind me of the reminders at the end of my presentation. That I was right, or I chose one of the telegrams that we received from the citizens of Serbia, which I will forward to you in further jurisdiction. You'll let me read that telegram. In fact, it is a man from around Belgrade, from a suburban municipality. ''Please, the books don't confirm unless it's been paid for the last month social contribution, so that later, when the payment is made, they will issue an interest note and a fine of 50,000.00 dinars. ''All this is done by the financial police instead of the Social Security Office, etc. So it's about a worker who's survived a serious car accident with multiple fractures, who's incapacitated and has an independent trade shop. I have warned the public of Serbia and you, Madam President, that the postponement and removal of this agenda poses a threat to who knows how many citizens of Serbia. How can this man be treated when he is unable to attract? I asked you for an answer and asked for an explanation – why is this item of the agenda removed? So I can't give an answer to this man, and you and the parliamentary majority have decided to take down that agenda point, you'll certainly find a way to answer not only this man, but thousands of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3561	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3562	Madam Chairman, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. If I may, I would like to take the opportunity and attend the Minister for the National Investment Plan, Mr Verica Kalanovic, by asking for an explanation and a notice. According to my knowledge, 125m euros were allocated in this year or last year for the recovery of technology facilities in the southern industrial zone in Panchev. According to my knowledge, it was promised by the previous minister. Is it this year or not, given that it is public enterprises controlled by the state – will these funds be allocated and intended exclusively for "Azotara", "Petrochemy" and "Rafineria"? This information is needed for the purpose of holding a session of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment tomorrow in Panchev. Among other things, the question will be asked – is the state intending to participate in this national investment plan for the resolution and resolution of the problem in Panchev, when it comes to the environment? I believe that you have also heard that Pančev is the most polluted city in Serbia, that most people die of cancer in Pancheva, that it is a city that dies and dies. In doing so, the state extracts huge material resources from Panchev. Let me remind you, please, that only last year, Petrochemy exported its 270m-euro products. Pancheva as a middle and local self-government is unable to solve these problems. So these problems need and must be solved by the state, along with those responsible. I must say, according to my knowledge, there were words from the government that these funds would be provided by the Minister of State. Those funds, according to my government findings, have comments, need to provide... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'll finish. They need to secure the buyer and, first of all, the Russians, if they realize the purchase of NIS. I think it should also be checked if the funds were provided – whether they were purposely spent or not or whether they were rerouted in another direction? (President: Please bring the final question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3563	I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of the SPS and the SRS and no more applications were submitted. Is there anyone else checking in? The word is Mr. Milisav Petronijevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3564	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I have come out to express my position on the shortest lines on behalf of the SPS-JS Group on the proposal of these four laws. Today, there are proposals for a law on the confirmation of inconclusive agreements and three laws where the Republic of Serbia provides guarantees, as it is agreements signed by its public enterprises and one where the Republic of Serbia is taking the loan. I just want to mention a few things. It is an 186m-euro fund. Of those 186m euros, 140m euros refers to a bypass around Belgrade and, of course, everything that goes with it. It refers to one of the most important parts of Corridor 10, a infrastructure facility that is finally, which is good, put the government in priority. As much as Serbia wants to go to Europe, it is Corridor 10 that brings Europe to Serbia. If she doesn't do it quickly, some other corridors will go to another side. Corridor 10, of course, and part of the bypass around Belgrade, is significant for many more reasons. First, Serbia solves the very big problem it has in terms of infrastructure. Secondly, Serbia is receiving capital facilities from the area of infrastructure. Third, by building these capital facilities, Serbia opens up employment opportunities for people, the biggest problem in Serbia. Of course, all of this continues to lead to a better life for the citizens. It's all part of the reason why we need to support these laws. One of them refers to the means to be used for the bypass from Batajnica to Dobanovac. Without it, there's no Corridor 10 again. Secondly, it concerns one of the most painful issues and, please, to be clear, not only Belgrade, but Serbia and the essence of Corridor 10, which is the Gazala Bridge. These are access routes. Belgrade is the city, perhaps the only one, where the highway of international importance passes through the city centre. The highway through downtown Belgrade is a street through which a huge number of vehicles that connect Europe with the Middle East, etc. That's unimaginable. Of course, as a result of that, the "Gazala" is suppressed. It takes a lot of luck to get over it, while it still can, even though the bridge is in this condition. It's urgent and necessary to do so as soon as possible. Belgrade contributes, it is not only Serbia. Belgrade also makes its contribution when it comes to bypasses, it can be seen. It's a good thing the bypass, as part of Corridor 10, and the entire Corridor 10, is put into priority. We have a chance to see our friend Mrkonjic day and night at the construction sites, just for the very reason to let him know that every one of these jobs has to be watched for them to finish in time. These are very large, large reasons to confirm these laws. Of course, I won't take your time. What to say about that guarantee given to Serbia's Elektroprivreda. How important these 36m euros are for the people of Posavina, Tamnava, Kolubara, Kostolac. These are entire settlements, degraded settlements, in which the lives of people of the entire Obrenovac municipality, part of Ub, Lazarets, then, Great Blacks, Sokolovo, Kostolac etc. It's all because of a very important job, it's making electricity on coal. These people must be allowed to have a healthy life. That's why it's important to do this. Of course, this fourth refers to the housing needs of refugees. I just want to warn the public, it's already becoming a refugee crisis in Serbia. There have been refugees in Serbia for 15, 16 years; about 100,000, if I'm not mistaken, refugees, 200,000 internally displaced persons, etc. All these are the obligations of a state that the state has to carry out. The reason these contracts were concluded, the issues they were dealing with, were very influential and influenced to support it. There's something else I'd like to say, which may not be appropriate for a member of the parliamentary majority. I want to use this as a warning to both the government and the present and everyone who deals with these affairs, that it has to be done faster and more vigorously, because it's not possible to explain that we have such a big problem of infrastructure, so much need to build Corridor 10, so little money, and so little money invested where they're going to come back first. It's not possible to have these problems, to sign an agreement a year ago, and that agreement under which the funds can't be withdrawn until the Guarantee Act is confirmed, and a year ago, we're not giving confirmation. The funds are still in place. The problem is access. I want to say publicly, it must be in such situations both faster and more energetic and more, because simply, the problems Serbia faces, all that Serbia has defined, which is to build, work, seek faster and more energetic action of all. Not to be too long, I would like to announce on behalf of the SPS-JS parliamentary group that we will vote in favour of confirming these laws. I want everyone to vote to confirm the law, and those who need to implement it, to implement them as soon as possible, in time, because it is an interest, not a ruling majority, not a parliamentary majority, but all in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3565	Thank you. By using article 85, I'd like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours, until the debate on the agenda point is over. Also, respecting the fact that at 4:00 p.m., the transfer of the UN Assembly session, whose agenda and our request for the International Court of Justice to declare the illegal declaration of independence of our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija, sets a break of up to 18.00 hours, so that the MPs can monitor this important debate. First of all, he has the word Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3566	Madam Chairman, I didn't expect the minister to behave like this, to come before the MPs and ignore, rather than come out and answer yes. I'm an MP, you're a minister, you have to give answers and you can't sit around and just whisper. I asked you for an answer, because by tomorrow, at 10:00, I need to know if the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted in the budget and out of your plan or not. That's what I need. Therefore, when you come to the congregation, know that there is an apostle for you. You are a government official and I ask you, if you will, to give an answer because that requires 130 thousand citizens of Panchev, given that they have serious problems. Here, I'm looking for an answer. If you do not want to give an answer, that too is necessary for the citizens of Serbia to know.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3567	Mrs. Minister has not been given the word that at this point in time to answer, but at the end of all the questions, I guess it won't be the only question for her, I'll give her the word and she'll be able to answer your question. He'll give an answer. Thank you. We're about to take a break. [[After break – 18,15]] Dear People's MPs, I assume we all share our satisfaction over the results of the vote in the UN. Our resolution was adopted with 77 votes. Most often in Parliament, we give each other criticism. However, I think it is an opportunity for our country, the foreign ministry, the president of the state and all citizens who have been with those who have made active moves to congratulate this occasion. We're going back to work. The word is Srboljub Zivanovic. He's not here. The word is Milan Avramović. He's not here. Would you like to do it instead of Srboljub? Here you go, Slobodan Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3569	Dear Members of the Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I have not often spoken here, but on this point which is on the agenda today I will use my right to point out some circumstances and I will limit my discussion to the part that treats this loan in relation to the construction of housing of the social programme for refugees, displaced persons and other persons who are in such a situation that they need the help of the state to solve their housing issue. I would especially like to welcome Mrs. Kalanovic and to draw attention to some details by looking at this project. I have to go back a little bit and say that I, as a member of the SRS, have been following up on this issue for several years now. I have a desire to point out something that has happened in previous projects, which is very negative, that this people who have lost their hearth, which is essentially the biggest loser in this transition that's happening to us, in some way, are being manipulated. I'm going to say that every day it appears to dozens of people who don't have the basic living conditions, for accommodation and as you know, in these fifteen years and over, in this drama that's above the one we have here, there were more opportunities and attempts to help these people. There were individuals who did it, there were some organizations that did it, there were organized projects of the state. However, the effects of all of this are minimal to them. It seems to me that this bill, too, has great gaps and irregularities, which can be the ultimate outcome of all of this being that this people have nothing to do with it. Now I'm going to say what's concrete. I read in the press earlier years, and there are no more than seven or eight months, that the refugees' ministries, etc. It has made some statements that some of the funds that we have received, in some way, in this social or other programme, have been used in such a way that they have not reached the end users. That's what's left unsaid. It was waiting for some laws to be passed, some proposals to come into force. However, it has nothing to do with it. One apartment number was built. They're said to be undivided, that they exist, that they're unintendedly used and that's it. Now, as far as this law is concerned, it's obvious that it's a large sum of money, that the motive is very correct, and that's where we'll agree, if the motive is extremely honest, then all of this would be fine. But when I looked here, there was a lot of indiscretion. I'm just gonna distract myself on some things. The date of approval for this project is 8 September, with later additions and changes. This stretches, the people have been in these premises for 15 years, children who were born on arrival to Serbia now need to finish primary school. The state had no space for them. I'm also afraid now that this project shows the beginning of the work, at this point, at the time of submission from the agreement, the percentage of the works that have been done is zero. I get it. I get it. I get it. The end of the work should be completed in three years. So, these kids are going to be 18, if they even get a chance to get something out of this program. When I looked further at this, it was obvious that whoever made this agreement make these people, and refugees, who also acquired Serbian citizenship, were one number of them, to enter into some credit system. I'm undermining, I can see that I'm okay with this, but I want to remind you, is the whole concept of this right? Most of these people live on the border of existence, fighting for a naked life. They're usually credit incapacitated. The question is, is this law right? They're multi-member families, usually with more elderly, sick and exhausted faces, who don't have a chance to get into credit at all. It shows me that many, not in those refugee accommodation camps, are very few now, all of them going to work somewhere, most of them, can't get that first basis to be treated as socially endangered faces at all. Why? As a radical, I was able to have dozens of single mothers come to me with children, the origin of refugees, without fathers who died or disappeared from their lives, and I was trying to report them to the welfare center. There I received an answer that anyone who wants to apply to a social work center must have at least a few disabled persons in their household who are incompetent to work. It takes a lot of evidence to get them into that story at all, that they're social cases. If this whole project is addressed to be able to participate in it, then questions are asked – how many of them will be covered, and there are many. You know that Serbia is probably the most evasive and displaced country in Europe, and perhaps even in the world, that Serbia has its own accompanying problems and that it cannot treat them as something that is a priority, it seems that these people will continue to be in an insecure situation and that this project will not touch them at all. It was obviously left here to see how and where these funds would be distributed. I see that the programme provides for these to be individual municipalities that have the highest number of refugees. The question is whether it's the right thing to do, whether they're even registered as refugees and how they get that status. I must say, I live in the Palilu municipality, I am well aware of what is happening in Palillula, I am also familiar with the efforts that the city of Belgrade has made, and I am sure with great precision I can say that the competitions on the allocation of apartments of solidarity were also directed in a way that did not allow those real users to come to apartments under the programme. I repeat, the motive for this is extremely correct, but in this whole procedure, I'm afraid this will go to the side, as well as the City Assembly, when the apartments of solidarity were assigned. We will come to the situation that thousands and thousands of people will compete, that a large number of them will have, as in the City Assembly, the same number of points, that we will establish, as we have established there, that some people will have the right to arbitration and to remove some from the ranking list. You can verify that, if you question this data that I've provided, and thus, there is usually an injustice to a large number of people who are in a hopeless situation. How will there ever be this distribution, which municipalities will have the funds to go to? Will these municipalities be willing at all, here I come from my municipality, to give up land? I see that the state is obviously watching this project, however social it is, from an economic angle. Where do we see that? Well, I see those faces, besides taking credit, if they're even able to take it, they're going to have to pay the utility and other expenses going into the state budget. I know from the state budget (not to read now, you've all got this material) one percent of the total costs of this programme, I think about 20 percent and some percent, if I'm wrong, don't blame me, give me the state, and this 10 million euros will give one part of the Development Bank, and another part of another institution, it's about 13.5 billion, if I'm not wrong. I see that one item says that one part will have to give those interested faces as well. Now, for the third time, I ask the question – are you aware that you have made this proposal that most of these most endangered have no predisposition at all to enter this programme? They usually work as undeclared labour, the most difficult physical jobs, or the simplest, among employers who do not hire them in the way provided by law. I know we have to put it in some legal cliché. But I have the impression that there will be a great selection here and that those who need this and this kind of help and care of the state will not be able to use this program at all. I especially want to look back at this third part of what I've been talking about, it's 400 apartments for refugees and displaced persons or persons who have acquired citizenship on the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the meantime. A hundred apartments in this programme refer to other socially endangered people, who do not have the opportunity to resolve their housing issue. They're also multi-member families. Now to continue, I was going to say that at this point, in what way the state treats these poorest households. I heard from Mrs. Mara Popov from Zrenjanin, and she was one of those people who was threatened by this transition, and the details were this: Mara Popov, due to her sick husband and incompetence, came into the situation, due to the payment of drugs, to receive a debt for the spent electricity of 27,000 dinars that she was to pay. Since she couldn't pay for it, Elektrodistribution acted through the court to sell a 67-square apartment for 5,000 euros, making up for the debt to Electrodistribution. The lady was kicked out of her apartment, with a four-member family coming to Belgrade thinking she was doing a good legal thing. She checked out in Zrenjanin and cannot apply at all in Belgrade. In Belgrade, he is now trying to find some accommodation, long here, where the person who betrays the apartment won't report it. She's credit-incapacitated, she can't raise a loan like this, or any other one, and those are the problems that affect the ones that this law treats the most. I ask you to consider this, that you eventually create a concept where there will be no abuse and that in the right way, there is room for these most endangered to be able to use this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3570	Replica, Mr. Martinovic. I would like to inform the members of the Committee on Environmental Protection and other interested MPs that the 3rd session of the Committee was scheduled for 9 October in Panchev for Friday, 10 October 2008. Departure to Pancheva on Friday, October 10th at 10.15pm, from a parking lot outside the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3571	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I am not answering because of the replica, but because of the Rules of Procedure, Article 226, and I am asking you for one notice that interests not only the MPs but, I believe, all the citizens of Serbia. So, during television broadcasts when someone from the parliamentary group educated by Tomislav Nikolic goes to the SNS text. Tomislav Nikolic informed the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 24 September 2008 by a letter saying that the MP group "Forward, Serbia" in congregation communication would use the SNS's abbreviations. You need to issue an order to use this keybinding when signing MPs belonging to the MP group "Forward, Serbia", as well as in all other official acts of the National Assembly – point, then bracket, small letter of assembly materials, site, etc., the president of the parliamentary group Tomislav Nikolic. Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I am obliged to warn you of the provisions of at least two applicable laws you have broken, if it is possible, with your permission, that under the names and last names of MPs belonging to the parliamentary group Tomislav Nikolic go to the SNS abbreviations. So, the SNS can't be the "Forward, Serbia", it's clear to the little kids. The SNS is probably short-listed from the Serbian Progressive Party. The Serbian Progressive Party, according to my information, is not listed in the register of political parties of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. This is what the Law on the Association of Citizens in Associations, Social Organizations and Political Organisations says: Article 11 paragraph 5 – the organisation does not have the right to act before entering the register; Article 22 – it is prescribed that a fine of 9-99,000 dinars will be fined by a political organisation that acts before entering the register; the Law on Political Organizations Article 17 paragraph 2 – a fine of 5-50,000 dinars will be fined if it carries out activities on behalf of a political organisation not registered in the register, nor has it submitted to the competent authority for registration in the register, which has ceased its work or which has been rejected for registration in the register. So, if this phantom party, which is not yet listed in the Register of the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, does not exist, I ask you to let me know if you issued a warrant that under the names and last names of the MPs and the phantom parliamentary group is writing out a abbreviations SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3572	Of course you are absolutely right by quoting the laws that regulate the matter you spoke of, but it is clear that the parliamentary group in Parliament, therefore, is not a political party but a parliamentary group, can call itself what it decides. On the proposal of that parliamentary group, I did. Here you go, another breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's really not regulated, it's not sanctioned or banned. Article 23 gives the parliamentary group the right, not the political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, democracy is a political regime that involves certain rights and freedoms, but these rights and freedoms are achieved within the framework of the Constitution and the law. Freedom in democracy is not absolute freedom, does not mean that now everyone can do what he wants. A citizen is free to do what is permitted by the Constitution and law. We can't make a joke out of Parliament right now. The parliamentary group is called 'Forward, Serbia', and it is short-named SNS. I don't know if it exists in some Mondialist or European parliament that a parliamentary group is called a single name and it is abbreviations something that has nothing to do with the name of the parliamentary group, which, by the way, has been formed by completely undermining the electoral will of Serbian citizens. So the laws governing the establishment and operation of political organisations are quite clear. Not now can every informal group consider itself a political party, not enlisted in the register, has its own parliamentary group in the Serbian Parliament, the parliamentary group is called one name and the famous party is called another name. We can't play with the law now. The law is clear. It is not disputed that the party can function, but it must be registered in the register before that. The registry, or records of all political parties in Serbia, is run by the competent ministry, which is the Ministry of State Administration. No party can act before it is entered in the register. The ministry, when registering a particular political party, shall record the name of the party, under which date it is established and which person has been authorised to come public on behalf of that party. So the law is perfectly clear and precise. I'd like you to explain to me what that SNS keybinding means. Is that some kind of secret tag, some kind of Martian password, what is it?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3574	The explanation of Mr Nikolic and the group of MPs who were with him was that if they were to use the NS, then there would be no difference between New Serbia and the parliamentary group. I assume it's the Serbian Progressive Party. Please, we're not talking anywhere, it's not on the site, it's a parliamentary group, not a political party. So we don't call it the political party. On the other hand, you have a group of minorities. A group of MPs decided to make the name of the parliamentary group a minority and we accepted it entirely. It is indeed the right of those who make up the parliamentary group to name the group as they propose and never to enter it. You have the word again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3575	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I really don't know what's controversial about what I said. It is not disputed that political parties that have their parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament use abbreviations; the Serbian Radical Party, the SRS abbreviations, means the first letters, or the words Serbian Radical Party – SRS, the Democratic Party – DS. Nothing is disputed, but explain to me how it is possible that it is "Forward, Serbia" – SNS. One member group cannot be named by one name without signing another name. In doing so, this other name is not used in the full name, but is used in some letters. I don't know if it's an occult ritual, a masseuse... What's this all about? Imagine, now some MPs are educated here in the Serbian Parliament of a new parliamentary group so that we can sign the KPJ, HDZ, etc. Where will the Serbian Parliament go? If they're signed as SNS, I'm asking you to explain to me what those letters mean. Does "Serbian Progressive Party" mean? I don't mind Tomislav Nikolic setting up his political party, but the political party cannot be represented in parliament, cannot act in public, it can publish an invitation for citizens to enroll in the political party and the party is not registered in the register at all. You, as president of the National Assembly, are both the laws I have quoted and how they commit. We are all representatives of certain political parties here. What will happen to the Serbian Parliament if parliament itself is trampled by a law on which MPs are elected to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? So I'm asking you a precise explanation, my question is quite clear. If the "Forward, Serbia" parliamentary group is short-signed as SNS, which is insane, what do those letters mean and what is behind that password?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3576	Someone from that parliamentary group can explain to you the reasons for the abbreviations they have proposed, and it can explain to you, I simply, as I have accepted all your suggestions on how to address you, which you will have as a parliamentary group, have accepted that as well. The word is Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3577	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, none of these fugitive MPs are president of the Assembly but you, and therefore you should give that answer, not some MP who will not have a mandate for much longer. So some things are generally clear. The president's powers are known, and the competent obligations of the fugitives, even MPs, are known. That's not why I answered. I'm gonna use the time it's scheduled for the SRS on the agenda. So, since we don't have much time, I will only talk about the bill to confirm the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development "Belgrade highway and bypass", with the proposal, according to Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to be carried out by emergency procedure. The first thing I would say in this opening part of my presentation is, to take advantage of the minister's presence, that this is another political project. I'll look only at him from these other points. Because of what I said at the beginning, I'm going to give a pretty good explanation. So, that it was a political project, that were angry and newly elected mayor of Belgrade, Gilas, and that some ministers, from the previous and this call, were angry, why the works on the bypasses speak the following data: the Roads Institute Commission found that the company "Planum" at nine locations was very late with works. The performer, however, claims to honour the deadline and notes that the NIP owes him as much as 400m dinars. So I'll explain after each part. The works on a bypass around Belgrade, from Ostružnica to Ibarska highway, are being late by the construction company "Planum", according to reports from the competent commission of the Institute of Roads, which visited the construction site 32 days ago. We've come into possession of a document detailing which of the planned jobs will not be completed by the promised deadline. The deadline was, I think, October 15th, which now gives everyone an indication that they will not be respected. The "Planum", however, argues that the investor, i.e. the NIP, owes him as much as 400 million dinars, but that, regardless, including its own costs, will try to honour the deadline. What is very important is to take a loan of 80 million and that the government of Serbia, more specifically, needs the competent ministry, to be a guarantee of a certain institution, i.e. The "Serbian Ways" to do this section around the bypass, as far as construction works are concerned. The end of the tour is very important because of the beginning of the work on the reconstruction of the Gazel Bridge. It says -- recently, the Serbian Parliament, with a year late, ratified a 33m-euro loan for the reconstruction of Gazela, which was negotiated with the European Investment Bank. Furthermore, he says – since the tendering process for the performance of the Gazela Bridge works has already been completed, the opening of the financial part of the bids will follow. He then says that – in this company, it points out that the possible delay in the bypass will not endanger the start of the reconstruction of Gazela, so closing August tapes on Gazela will certainly not be until the end of 2008. Because of the anger of political opponents that this project, like, works (or else, this project began in 1991), there is speculation that certain companies have come under attack, and even companies carrying out the work. They are somehow referred to as threats to use the possibility of foaming. This is the answer – the public calling of the company "Planum" due to the delay on the bypass is due to the fact that there is no obligation for the company that is late to pay for it. Our source says, since this company, as well as others who are building a bypass, has done business 20 years ago, no criminal policy is foreseen in case of delay. And that gives some of this a comfortable position to this company itself, and on the other hand, this company's reputation is going down. So why am I saying this is a political project? I have to remind you of a pre-election campaign in Belgrade, when the ruling coalition opened a bridge that was built many years ago, a bridge that was only reconstructed, opened, not reconstructed until the end, and reconstructed day and day. What's very important to say is investment for some of the capital projects that the state has given a guarantee, which is an inside-the-line ring. You are all aware of the fact that this topic was publicly very much represented and that it was quite a good topic to take votes from the citizens of Belgrade when it came to a pre-election campaign, that we will solve the problem of traffic in Belgrade with an internal magistrate's ring. Now, we have the same case -- that we will solve traffic in Belgrade by bypassing Belgrade, which we absolutely agree with, but not the way that this solution should be reached. I will remind you of only a few failures, a study conducted by "Scott Wilson" and a public consultation conducted by the public company -- "Serbian Roads" cannot be considered legitimate, as project sponsors have never published complete documentation by the EIB and have never organised a public debate. The document was not provided in Serbian and available to the general public for insight. The competent authority at Belgrade's level, in charge of impact assessment, has not been contacted at all about the project. The competent authority for this impact assessment at the level of the Republic of Serbia is the Environment Protection Directorate of the Ministry of Science and Environment. The administration has never publicly published any information related to this project. Public consultations, which were mentioned in Scott Wilson's study, were not carried out on the basis of a definitive course and were not sufficiently advertised and published in the media. Public consultations and an impact assessment document under the Impact Assessment Act will be done for Section C when the main project is organised. So we're going into realisation, and some things aren't even familiar yet. The impact assessment even for Section A, in this case in the process of clarifying the current status, and the assessment and licenses for Section B were completed during and at the end of the 1990s. It is clear that a complete impact assessment of all sections of the bypass is necessary. If I mentioned a few more basic things, I wouldn't take time away from my colleagues. The main problem of transparency is the relocation of the Roma beneath the Gazela area. The reconstruction of the bridge, considered necessary, must lead to the migration of about 2,000 inhabitants, illegally populated, mostly Roma nationality. They live in extremely difficult circumstances and their houses are mostly cardboard and wooden slabs, living surrounded by rats, earning occasionally money by selling waste that collects almost all over Belgrade. Without legal consideration of the impact of reconstruction and measures to reduce the proportion of impact on the lives of residents, as well as without a full analysis of the EIB, which I mentioned, which must be done for this part of the project, there may be protests, any residents who will be displaced, any of their new hosts, as we have already seen in Belgrade right after the election campaign. Now I've only got a few details I'd like to make as a conclusion. The recently adopted General Urban Plan and Belgrade's Regional Plan, unfortunately, have not considered strategic opportunities and dilemmas, nor any such idea of the steps of realisation that make up the functional and spatial integrity of the network, as well as the bypasses around Belgrade. A number of timely, even at the initial stage, preliminary warnings, objections and suggestions, both individuals and especially formed teams at the Roads Directorate, left no response, so that official planning documents open space for arbitrary interpretations and, worst of all, capital and long-term decisions based on current group and individual and even political interests. With this I would like to conclude, to pay attention, not to pay a single coffee twice, that capital projects that are very important for Belgrade have been implemented beyond this law that has been presented to us and that we need to give a guarantee, for the stand we know, whether and in what direction the money will go, in what time period and whether it will succeed in "Serbia's Way" to honour this loan that it has received. And then what does the guarantee give? He says, "The guarantor will not impose direct or indirect taxes on foreign consultants hired by the bank." Then, "The guarantee will call a tender for auction or privatisation of all companies involved in the maintenance of the national travel network." Or, "the guarantor will remove the difference between the tolls charged for foreign vehicles or even domestic ones." All this guarantee must be done unless the borrower honors the deadlines and the contract that we all need to sign. So think carefully about what you will be guaranteed because you have experience from the previous period. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3578	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3579	Article 226. In the morning part of the session, I will use this very member of the Rules of Procedure, many MPs, including myself, asked the prime minister, the finance minister, eventually the governor of the NBS, but through you, because we have no other choice. How is it possible that so far the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not responded to what is happening now, to the global financial crisis, and how is it possible to act crazy as if this will never happen to us under the current circumstances? She's already knocking on the door and showing her first psychological negative effects, and the rest of you will see each other later. Since, apparently, there is no aberration on the other hand, nor is it possible to expect any meaningful work when it comes to the government, which I am responsible for saying that no one is leading it, because I thought earlier that it was Ivica Dacic instead of Mirko Cvetkovic, and apparently that he is not, in practice, there is no one who would take care of it, I just wanted to let you know that the DSS Group has done something. Given everything that was said this morning, the DSS has done something to show how things were done, what anyone else in the government had to do in the past days, who was responsible and responsible for such a thing, and this is the bill on amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, and we have suggested that the amount of the security deposit so far be raised up to 3,000 euros, as this is the only measure that can be saved from the very negative psychological effect of what comes next. Hundreds of people have called to ask me if their deposits in banks, as citizens, are safe at this point. Of course I told them that they did, that there was no need to lose confidence in banks in Serbia, that there was no need to lose confidence in the financial system, because it had been achieved in the past years. Of course it's a story we should all tell the citizens of Serbia. There must be something that the state itself must do, i.e. executive power in the state and to react in good time, not to read statements by various experts and experts on daily newspapers, which suggest such a measure, so that they can hear it later from Mirko Cvetkovic or someone else from the Government of the Republic of Serbia after five weeks. Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you today, October 8, 2008, a draft law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, which is now in the assembly procedure, which has been submitted by the DSS, asking for what is necessary to save the possible erosion of citizens' trust in banks and the financial system in general in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3580	Thank you. It is also an opportunity to inform you that I took a break and talked to Governor Jelasic, who will be on the Finance Committee tomorrow at 12:00 p.m., and since the finance minister is out of the country, she is officially absent, President Cvetkovic and Finance Minister will also be on the same board from Monday. You will be informed of the results of the conversation. So, on our call, both Mr. Governor and Mr. Prime Minister will be in our assembly and we will talk. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3581	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, firstly I would like to welcome the efforts and the victory of our diplomacy at the UN General Assembly in New York, and particularly the foreign minister, Mr Vuk Jeremic, who has indeed made huge efforts, as well as the president of Serbia, Mr Boris Tadic. I'm really happy and happy about it. [[Applause]] I don't think it's time to liquefy. More energy and expertise, expertise, legal knowledge should now be invested that the International Court of Justice delivers an advisory opinion informing the UN General Assembly that a unilateral secession on KIM is contrary to international law. We warn, if it's the opposite, then the story is over. We wanted to move to the legal field, we got it. If on the legal ground, or at the International Court of Justice in The Hague, we lose the battle, then it is lost forever. Then we can't say no justice court in The Hague, so let's go back to the political story. So, in victory, let us not be arrogant and proud, but smart and abstentioned. As DHSS MP, I support the proposals of all these three laws confirming the treaty, especially those concerning the security of financial resources for the completion of this'scaper on Bojana', which is called the 'passion around Belgrade'. I hope there's finally enough money. I have to remind you, we're hearing too many stories again. I'm afraid when the tour of Belgrade is completed, it won't solve the problem of traffic in Belgrade. A trail around Belgrade is a common road around Belgrade. That's not the highway. I'd like to be explained what this other law means, where it's called "Belgrade highway." What's a Belgrade highway? Here, think simply, when you turn off the highway at Dobanovci or when it's finished at Bubanj stream on the "passway" you turn on a simple road and there will inevitably be asphyxiation, I travel every other day from Dobanovci to Ostružnica. Either I move on to this to look for an explanation – what is "Belgrade highway," or to mention the state of our highways. I went to Saturday today and came back. Putarina from Saturday to Nis, or a little more towards Leskovac, costs 16-17 euros. It's only conditionally called the highway. This year no rally of Paris-Dakar was held because of the conflict in Chad, so I would suggest to the organisers that they move it to our highway, it has all the conditions. I'm going to remind you of something else, I'm deliberately characterizing, I've been traveling through Slovenia recently. There you take a vignette, buy, which costs 35 euros and you can drive for six months for 35 euros along Slovenia's highways. Here to go and go back from Saturday to Nis cost 35 euros and you may have a chance to survive. So, we should honestly explain to the citizens what's actually going to be the "Belgrade Highway" and what it is. Of course, I would not talk about what the payment opportunities of the citizens of Slovenia are, and what our citizens are, noting that gas is 30-40% cheaper there. I don't want to take any more of your attention, I'm just going to use this, Madam President, so I don't answer for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because I have enough time, because yesterday morning and this morning, which, by faxes, telegrams, SMS messages, I received questions from 70-80 citizens of Serbia – what will happen to the promised actions? When are the citizens, these five million naives, when will they get the shares? When will those stocks arrive for payment? How much action are you gonna be worth? What about those who shared those false promises? What we get from NIS is a few dozen euros per citizen of these five million. It is mentioned that the Telecom should not be privatized. JAT's not going to privatisation. The EPS is silent. Where'd the money come from? Honestly, is it a pre-election promise, does anyone have Aladdin's magic lamp or is it a question of irresponsibility? In democracy, there are only two principles: responsibility and exchangeability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3582	Thank you. The word is Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3583	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS will not support a set of these laws that you have united in the debate, but certainly our intention is not to challenge the essence and importance of the projects covered by these laws. We understand and support absolutely and understand the importance of Belgrade getting a pass, to advance Corridor 10. We understand the importance of improving standards in the field of environmental protection. It qualified us to be or to be compatible with the developed world as soon as possible. What we're going to be arguing about today is the fact that you're providing funds for the realization of these projects. What is bad is the fact that the government and government representatives do not understand the importance of these projects until the end and Mr Avramovic spoke of it earlier. It concerns all that the Commission has found and all that concerns the deadlines that have certainly been broken. The problem is essentially the fact that this state, i.e. the state's public enterprises, will be additionally credited to implement the projects, and the state, although in its own budget, will again guarantee Serbian citizens' money for these credit debts. We think it's just another step on the country's path to debt slavery. Of course, I would hate to see this as a political phrase. This category appears increasingly in economic analyses of economic experts and economic institutions who have recently looked very kindly at what you are doing, especially after 5 October 2000. Now they've changed their relationship and attitude to what you're doing in the economic policy that you're leading. Unfortunately, Mrs Kalanovic, you are part of the regime, after eight years in Serbia you have failed to create an ambience, an economic and economic environment in which an economic substance will be created. Well, if there's not enough substance to implement these projects, you could at least provide that substance with certain security for the loans that the state is going to guarantee. The fact is, about 200m euros, as covered by these laws, is not big money for a serious state. It's certainly a huge treat for the country we live in. For one more fact, I'm going to remind you who's speaking in favor of this. Some of the Serb tycoons found themselves on Forbes's list of the richest people in a certain part of the Balkans, or Europe, I think they see this figure as a mockery. It seems to me that for this country, one million or two million euros are huge bites. Unfortunately, we still live in a country where 500 billion dinars are spent more than income, in which the internal debt of citizens is only in the name of a loan greater than 350 billion dinars. We live in a country where in four days the value of the dinar has dropped by 10%, the value of the shares it has already fallen, we live in a country where public spending has exceeded all reasonable frameworks, which is referred to by both the IMF and the EU's issuer institutions, but unfortunately there is no hearing in the country. Today, in the afternoon debate from this pay phone, there were a lot of suggestions and a lot of advice – that the state is dealing with serious things and not with these loans at this time, given that there is a recession happening in the world. A much more serious state than Serbia, much more economically stable and more developed than Serbia, has already adopted a certain package of measures, i.e. an operational plan that will intervene, i.e. act on the possible negative consequences of the global crisis, and our country is certainly still being guided by that story that Mr Krasic told today – the village is burning, and the grandmother is combing. I think these laws are just another economic noose around this country's neck. The SRS won't support them for that. We invite the other MPs in the Assembly not to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3584	Thank you. There is a word from MP Sasa Dujovic. Here you go. Have Bojan Mladenov prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3585	I would like first of all to point out that as the MP for the Veterans of Serbia movement, who works at the SPS-Singing Serbia Parliament Club, I will support this position, as well as all these proposals, as well as the entire SPS Parliament Club - Unique Serbia. From a set of these contracts, I'd like to single out this proposal for ratification, related to resolving refugee housing issues. First of all, it is good that the Serbian government, that the state is finally starting to solve problems more seriously for the refugees and displaced persons. In that set, I would like to draw attention to a population of Serbian citizens who is indeed in a difficult situation. It is, somewhere, about 3,500 military pensioners living today in the Serbian Army facilities and who expect the Ministry of Defence and the state to solve their housing problems. In fact, it's about the people who defended this country and today, with full rights, they expect this country to defend their right to life, i.e. to solve their housing issues. Of course, I cannot leave out categories of wartime wartime disableds, categories of war veterans who, you must admit, are really threatened, and one basic existenceal right to life is a housing issue and we expect that in some equal circumstances, as well as with all other citizens, some priority is given to these citizens. The proposal, i.e. the way it will be solved with refugees, is quite adequate and acceptable for these categories as well – means that they participate in solving with some of their means, as far as they can. Of course, I would like to point out that there are people in the category of military pensioners who have spent their entire lives defending this country and there are several categories and officers, both the officers and civilian persons at the service, who, with full rights, expect their problem to be solved. The other day I visited such an object where they live, where conditions are, indeed, mildly said, bad. I believe that through the National Investment Plan or through already some other co-operation of your ministry and the Ministry of Defence and other ministries, the entire government will eventually take this problem and solve it. I want to point out once again and finally conclude – we will support all four proposals. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3586	Thank you. The word is made by MP Bojan Mladenovic and has to be prepared by Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3587	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia is over-indebted today. Still, we take new ones and get into even bigger debts, with even more interest. We'll bring them back for years and we and our children. Where will the signatories of these loans be when we have to get them back? He probably won't be in Serbia. They will be materially secure and live in other countries, and when the payment bills arrive, we, who did not participate in this, will have to return them. If we can't pay the interest and pay back the debt, the creditors will block the state's assets and sell it off, and bring the country into debt slavery. The worst thing about this is that we have bound ourselves into this slavery. No one's making us do this. The government is the biggest culprit for what's going on today. I remind you that recently Governor Jelasic informed the citizens and warned them not to take too much credit, to take care of their duties. The government says that you need to be very careful, take care of the interest, and then work quite the opposite – wherever they can and wherever they get the loan, i.e. credit. What about the reconstruction of Gazela, when will it be, how late? I remind you that the move of the unhygiene settlement under Gazela was to be completed by the end of 2007, and will not be resolved unfortunately this year either. The construction of a highway around Belgrade takes much longer than the plan. Now it's only working on a section from the Tribute Bridge to the Orlovach cemetery. The deadline for the completion of the stake was the end of 2007, and was announced to be open on 1 September 2008. It has been announced to open on 1 October 2008 and none of these deadlines are respected. The new deadline is October 15th, 2008, and if it is not and then there will be no problem – a new day will be set for completion, for the picture of ministers, and it will be published on all the media as a great success. With so much delay, ladies and gentlemen, this is going to be a huge failure. They're just talking about that stock. What about the rest of the detours? When it is, no one can even predict that we should have to postpone the opening several times again. The original deadline for the complete 'pass' was the end of 2008. As the works go slowly, the forecasts are that they won't be finished for the next four years. What's most important, and it's not mentioned in public -- it's all just a highway, and later, when there's two more tapes, it's just going to be the highway. The bill is very important for Belgrade itself, because it will accept transit and freight traffic, relieve Gazela, and it will also have European importance, because it will be used by many vehicles from abroad to come to Serbia or as a transit through it. Due to delays in work, today trucks and other cargo traffic from Osrežnica towards the highway to Nis pass through populated places: Železnik, Resnik, Beli Potok. Because of all these things, it's very important that the deadlines for the completion of the work are respected. The citizens of Belgrade and Serbia suffer the most because of the constant breakthrough of the same. To conclude about the bypass and all other works – deadlines should not break, each delay costs Serbia much. As for the loan, they can only be good if they invest in production, so they can return from it. These loans today are very difficult to get back. A great responsibility for this lies with the current authority that only thinks about taking it, and certainly not the return of the same and Serbia imposes a big problem that will not be so easy to solve. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3588	The word has Alexander Martinovic. Before you start, I'll read the text Mr. Nikolic delivered to me. He addressed the president of the National Assembly: "I inform you that the MP group "Forward, Serbia" in congregation communication will use the SNS abbreviations. You need to issue a warrant to use this abbreviations in the signing of MPs belonging to the "Forward, Serbia", as well as in all other official acts of the National Assembly, assembly material, site and so on." It was an official request and other parliamentary groups addressed it in this way. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3589	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, anyone who followed the television broadcast of today's session could see that I read this memo to Tomislav Nikolic half an hour ago. It is indisputable that there is a letter from Tomislav Nikolic asking that his phantom, illegal and unconstitutional parliamentary group, called 'Go, Serbia', be called SNS in short. I don't know if those letters are written in Latin or Cyrillic. Does that mean CHC or SNS? Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I asked you to inform me, me and all the people's MPs, and I believe the citizens of Serbia who are interested in this, what is behind that SNS shortcut. It is clear what is behind the SNS, DSS, DSS, etc. You don't have to be some big political wiser to know the answer to that question, but I really don't know what's behind the SNS. If the Serbian Progressive Party is hiding, then I ask you as president of the National Assembly, which is the most responsible for the legality of Parliament's work, how you allow a political party that is not registered in Parliament, which is not registered in the register of the competent ministry. That party doesn't even have its own seal, it doesn't have a program. Her god-awful president or self-appointed, Tomislav Nikolic, said the party would not even have a programme. There's no statute, as far as I know. It's not in the register. You don't know where her address is, who's the authorized person, under which date she was founded, etc. So, a whole series of strangers. It is sad, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, that you, as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, do not even know how many parliamentary groups there are in the Serbian Parliament, nor what they are called, nor what is behind the abbreviations used by the parliamentary groups. Some MP groups use these abbreviations perfectly legitimately, in line with the spirit of Serbian. These others, who are unconstitutionally and illegally formed, use some abbreviations that I personally don't know what they mean. You still haven't answered that question. You are obliged to explain to the citizens of Serbia that it is possible for one parliamentary group to be named by one name, and to use something else as its short version of the name. You remain obliged to answer the question – how is it possible for a political party that is not registered in Serbia to act? These are all very serious questions. The constitutional order in Serbia, democracy, parliamentaryism, everything that is the traditions of the European fight for democracy, for the status of political parties as one factor without which a democratic system of a state cannot be imagined. As for the bill we're discussing today, here, my colleagues from the SRS have already said enough on the subject, I don't want to take much time. Serbia is an overindebted state. No one keeps a record of the purpose of the use of funds coming from abroad. It is clear that it is largely being abused for day-to-day policy purposes, especially when it comes to elections. The best evidence for this was the election that was held in Serbia on 11 May, especially in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, where it was clear to all that activists, now ruling parties in Serbia, in Vojvodina, especially DS, were bribing voters, bribing members of election committees, and there are serious indications that all this was done, among other things, the money that came from individual so-called. European funds. When it comes to these European funds, these days in Vojvodina, and Serbia is also discussing a subject that is very current. It's a draft, now a proposal for a new statute of the AP Vojvodina. Those who wrote it explain, among other things, the need for Vojvodina to enjoy the retail capacity of the sovereign state and for easier access to European funds. It is clear that Bojan Pajtic and the furniture around him in Novi Sad want access to European funds without the Republic of Serbia and without Boris Tadic. They want the citizens of Vojvodina to live better, not because of the citizens of Vojvodina, but so they can say tomorrow – you would have lived even better if you didn't have the rest of Serbia! The rest of Serbia is holding back the economic, financial, democratic development of Vojvodina. You see how well you live, unlike your cousins and friends south of Sava and Danube, a higher degree of independence should be given to the Vojvodina. So we are talking about easier access to European funds today in Vojvodina to justify a draft, or a proposal for a statute that makes up a federal unit in Serbia, and tomorrow perhaps a completely independent state. The SRS informs and warns the people of Vojvodina and all Serbia that the intentions of those who wrote the draft Vojvodina statutes are dangerous. They don't care how the citizens of Vojvodina live, whether they have better ways, whether they can be treated more easily, etc. This is about an open intention to slice Serbia's state territory, which is how Mr Dragoslav Petrovic, head of the parliamentary group, testified, if I am not mistaken, in the Vojvodina Assembly. Yesterday he said in a television show, which I participated in, that the Republic of Serbia has only one autonomous province – Vojvodina, and on my question about Kosovo and Metohija, he said: well, you know, this is a special case, not now about it. I am now taking the opportunity to ask Mr Dragoslav Petrovic a question -- why he did not inform DS MPs about it, because it is obvious that for the Vojvodina Democrats, KIM is not part of Serbia, and as things go on, he is asking whether it will be for those in Belgrade as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3590	The breach of the rules of procedure was advertised by MP Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3591	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, Member 27. Rules of Procedure. I've got to get you into the subject before. In England there is a speaker in parliament, and in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia there is a president of the National Assembly. The task of the President of the National Assembly is not to read the greetings and wishes of listeners but to apply the Rules of Procedure, as it is not the task of MPs to laugh when I show them my finger, you know the diagnosis of these situations. Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, the gentleman who signed what he sent you, could write whatever he wanted, but you have no right to have a non-selective and non-view of the Rules of Procedure or to issue a warrant, because if that logic you use in the application of the Rules of Procedure and in the work of the National Assembly were applied, then some other parliamentary group could write a letter and ask you to read it. You know, behind this SNS you can hide very ugly messages. Insolent messages, messages that insult the dignity of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially those who voted. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, take care, I get the impression that you are making your political side in the National Assembly. This is the first time that someone by usurping authorities in the National Assembly, misusing the Rules of Procedure, is making some new political party. That hasn't happened yet. Of course, it's probably under the influence of those who have big money and who are in some likely criminal enterprise with these in the establishment. Take care of what those abbreviations mean. Look at the results of the previous elections, look at the names of the election lists, and see if you should be the president of the National Assembly or the speaker. If you're a greeter and a listener's wish, then this isn't a radio station, and then you made the wrong place. If you continue to insist that you extend your countryman to the National Assembly in this way, believe me, I will be forced to charge you with the illegal formation of a paramilitary and secret organization by means of the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3592	Thank you. It is clear that the parliamentary group you speak of is the result of all that has been between you, and that I have absolutely no part in all this. I'm trying to find Article 27 where I broke the Constitution, the laws. I need to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. Who is a member of the Rules of Procedure who says that I should not respect the position of a parliamentary group that requires that it be addressed as such. Whether this parliamentary group should be here, on many occasions we have said that there are certain distances that belong to another and not to this system of work, therefore, not to the assembly, and that according to this, every new decision will require a change of attitude. Until the moment a group of MPs around Tomislav Nikolic are in parliament, they have the right to MPs. Mr. Martinovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3593	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the matter is quite clear and I think that, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, there is no need for you to mystify it. So I've quoted you at least two laws that directly oblige you to respect them. The Law on the Association of Citizens in Associations, Social Organizations and Political Organisations states clearly in Article 11(5) – the political organisation does not have the right to act before entering the register, and Article 22 provides for a criminal code to punish itself with a fine of between 9,000 and 90 thousand dinars, an organisation that begins to operate before being entered into the register. The second law is the Law on Political Organisations, which is laid down in Article 17(2) of the fine of between 5 and 50,000 dinars for a citizen, watch out for a citizen, if he is carrying out activities on behalf of a political organisation not registered in the register, or has submitted a application to the competent authority for registration in the register, which has ceased or been rejected for registration. I am obliged, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, to remind you that there is a crime called 'false representation' in the criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. Here, a citizen, Tomislav Nikolic, is represented as a national MP, is said to be the president of some Serbian Progressive Party, which only appears to be in his head. It has not been entered in the register of the competent ministry, no programme, no statutes, no date since the party has been legal. I asked you a very simple question – what is behind the SNS? Don't tell me it's a name, it's some kind of acronym, some kind of abbreviations, some kind of code, maybe it's some mantra used by some religious sects. You know, the Masons when they hold their gatherings have some secret signals, as they communicate, tap three times in a wooden table, or wrap themselves up with some kind of apron of pig skin, using some secret initial symbols, etc. I'm curious, so what's behind this? What's hiding behind the SNS or if it's on the Latin CHC? If the Serbian Progressive Party is hiding, it is possible for you to tolerate the existence of something that is not included in the register, when the law that regulates the area is completely clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3594	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3595	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, it is Article 104. A Rules of Procedure where you severely insult the dignity of the National Assembly. I don't want to repeat what Mr. Martinovic said, but this is about a paramilitary, secret organization by the cult organization system, whether it's Munov or someone else, I don't know, but some satanists are. Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, you tend to use the opportunity to abuse that place where you are, to insert something as a topic and you are aware that you are thus violating both the Constitution and the law and the will of the voters and everything that exists in this country. You're knowingly and deliberately doing it to raise tensions here, so that, apparently, someone can conclude that those who insist on fighting for their rights, to represent citizens above all, are obstructing something here. And these here, they obstruct life in Serbia and you join them. You want to make a general confusion, so the sectators are the main subject, not KiM, not these loans, not that we haven't had a final account in seven years. When was the last final account adopted in the National Assembly? So, the topics that life is about you disabling by putting in something that is absolutely marginal, something that is anti-constitutional, something that is difficult both in the sky and in the earth and in people. You're doing this on purpose. You want to create a conflict here, you want to create a situation that makes it worse. For whom, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, will it be better? For Bozidar Djelic? For who? For he who is the enemy of this country and this people. Why would we be here chasing you and arguing over something that's common knowledge? Why are you making people and citizens think about something that's just stupid? You know, the man came out here and said that his term was in his pocket, it wasn't an insult to you, it was a desirable situation to create conflicts. We don't want to participate in any conflict, but we will always invite you to respect the Constitution and the law. You'll never be able to forbid that. And of course, we want to show that you're breaking both the Constitution and the law, and now you've done this very rudely with the tendency to violate the dignity of the National Assembly, so that every columnist, drunk, in Serbia can write whatever he wants and spit on the National Assembly and the Legislative Body. Why? To keep the executive power from stealing.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3596	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3597	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104, therefore, violation of Parliament's dignity. First of all, let's recapitulate that it all started in today's day, so this outlawed, disfellowshipped SRS group headed by its guru Nikolic, and since Mr. Martinovic has already asked himself and the public what does that SNS mean? Mr. Martinovic, an esteemed colleague, perhaps the Satanic Nikolic sect, perhaps, and perhaps something else. I really don't know that. Serbian citizens should know. But I am reporting to say that it all started today from the moment that this citizen, who holds the mandate of the SRS, was elected on the list of SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj, and probably another 600,000 euros he stole from the SRS, so millions that give him who already pays him to do it all. Indeed, we must bring the congregation into normal working conditions. You have seen (now I am glad that Mrs. Kolundzija came) that the MPs of the SRS and this is the widest possible diapazon of new characters for the Serbian public, young, educated people, brilliant radicals, throughout the day very professionally talked about the proposals of the law, about this set that is on the agenda, both first and second. We are proud, as are the citizens of Serbia, that the SRS, who cares about the future of our citizens, has such wonderful people in its parliamentary benches, people who are willing to speak for the sake of the interest of the Serbian citizens what our programme is, our ideology. We are now coming into a situation, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, that the people of RTS technique, again I say they are not guilty because they have officially received it, as some kind of abbreviations, have to do what they are asked to do on the basis of a memo. What does that memo mean? Classic abuse, public deception. You see how immoral it is, what cynicism it is, and for that there is, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, in your area of code, for every disease and for every psychopathological need to deceive the public and to cheat on citizens. As far as thieving is concerned, that's what public authorities are supposed to do. About that later. If someone needs to be represented one day like this, another day like that, and they can't possibly be represented here in the Assembly, because it's abuse, violation of electoral will, then we're all, well-respected fellow MPs, in trouble with that. Now I'm going to end it and I'm going to tell you, here's my colleague Albianic, who is really the only authentic 'progress' I know in this room, in Serbia, who knows what it looks like in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Or you're in a parliamentary group that's registered based on software similarities and ideology, which this outlaw group doesn't have, you've seen that instead of the famous Serb symbol of the two-headed eagle, which they've taken down and thrown down, they've put down some two twisted rhomboids. It doesn't matter. Let's go to the basket of two-headed eagles, can a rhomboid, blue and red, bent. So, it's done... Here, I'm done. (President Gordana Komic: Three minutes and 30 seconds. Where did you come from? So it's that it's an abuse, to deceive the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3598	The People's Messenger, Pai Momchilov, has the word. After him, Radisha Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3599	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, has developed here an interesting discussion and debate on a certain group of citizens who are asking the president of the Assembly to bear the signature of the SNS. If I were to lose my mind by some chance and ask the President of the Assembly to address me and the title stands for me - Paya Momchilov's Lord, how would the Honorable President of the Assembly act? That's what I'm interested in. Although, from a legal point of view, I might have more right to ask for something like that, only from a medical point of view, that wouldn't be right. When someone signs a SNS, we're deluded, like people, what's it really about? It's not just a blank emphasis on something, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's It rhymes with the SPS, the SNS, and I see that maybe our president of the Assembly has an emotional relationship with it, so somehow it's her SNS. Again on this right, we think it's not a Serbian national disgrace. I don't mean shame in the national interest, but in ethnic terms, when it comes to stealing, corruption and some similar problems. But to leave these things behind, we are now discussing important laws, a set of laws. Four documents are in front of us today to talk to Minister Kalanovic. A man has to say, unfortunately, Albianic, a mountain boy, this is the Assembly. When you want to speak, to give you advice, ask for a word, come and speak as much as you want, and you don't have to be so loud, we all hear, we're not deaf, and we're not all from the mountains, so respect that. Please refuse me from time to time, this conversation with the honourable MP, Mr. Albianic. (President: People's MP, I can only warn you and Mr Albianić, which I won't, so there's no need to deny you from the time. Your time is at your disposal. Please don't have a dialogue. I'm sorry for the interruption and go ahead. I'd like you to tell your fellow earners that it's not right for them to earn, not for me to give a lecture. We can keep going. The Doss regime since 2005 after the suspension of sanctions, after those war destructions we had, unfortunately, survives on the basis of two things, on the basis of donations that were no longer available, on the basis of the sale of everything we have, which is worth, and unfortunately, today our resources, natural resources, are sold to foreigners, the country in Vojvodina will also be sold to foreigners. The third item on the basis of which it is held in life is foreign loans. They're already saying that we're on the border that we belong to countries that are overindebted. It is said that the number of 29 billion euros is at stake, someone says it is less, that we are not dealing with these figures, but in any case we are also well-loaded with these loans. What's for sure, one difficult economic situation that governments in society, we see that we have a drop in the value of dinars, we have a drop in stock values. We also have a soft promise from last election cycle, where pensioners are promised a lot of things, and now these economic opportunities are breaking the promise and pensioners aren't going to live any better. It's sad, but it's our reality. We have four documents, apartments for displaced persons need to be credited – okay. You need to help Elektroprivreda – okay. We have two contracts that were signed a year ago, and they are not realised – that's your way of working, to sign something, and then you don't realize it, and then you come to the Assembly after a year and ask the MPs to ratify these contracts for you. Is that just criticism for criticism? No, I don't. With one of these loans, you will reconstruct Gazela. The moment the reconstruction was built, it was 33m euros. Today it's 10 million more, because steel has cost 80%, according to experts. That's how you have money and how you do it. I'm going to give you even more drastic examples of your bossing money that you take lightly, which the people of Serbia, in such a difficult time, and how you're going to have to pay back with great pains. She's laughing. She's not going to get hit. It's known that she's fostered a good company, and it doesn't tang her at all. This Gazela – 160,000 cars pass a day, you see how crowded they are today, it will take two years to reconstruct, only a short time to close one side. Imagine what kind of crowd Belgrade will have? In order to get Gazela going, it had to be done with what was the "Scarret - Eagle" move, and we see it's late. The "Planum" says they didn't pay us! And from the executive authority, the people in charge say, "It's paid." Whoever lies here, where there's truth and if really October 15th, when the deadline, this piece is going to be released to work, we'll see. That's what we'll see. We have three moves here, Batajnica-Dobanovci, Bubanj stream-Zeleznik, Belgrade-Bubanj stream-Surcin, 47km that will cost 500m euros. That's what I need for 40 miles to pay. Now, what does it look like in the world? Here's an example from the environment. Croatians built the Zagreb-Split highway, 380 km in three years. In what way? They could go to concessions, they could go to loans. They decided to go on loans, that 60%(2.3 billion euros cost) of 15 foreign loans, and this second one to compensate from the tolls they had and they took from the gasoline 0.07 euros per litre to pay for this and build it. It cost 2.3 billion euros, this 47km will cost 500m euros. You know the terrain from Split to Croatia and what's at stake here. See how that can be built. The IMF was terrible against it when they started, because it was 2% of Croatia's gross national income. They said, don't do it, and then they gave them credit to wash away the shame because those experts gave the wrong assessment and then saved the thing, and eventually they took part in the credit line. That's how it's done, you see, when it's managed properly with resources. Putarina on that road, someone was talking about toll when you start from Saturday you have to pay 35 euros to Nis, and there you have to pay 21 euros. It's reality. So, to finish, there are colleagues of mine, and they're going to talk, and this country is saddened, and this coalition that survives at the expense of this blood is also saddened, and now we see even more recent blood. It is necessary to survive to renew that blood to those who are in the middle of the road, those who will connect, and the Serbian Radicals, that's what we are, we remain on the principles of English parliamentism somewhere from the 17th, 18th century where it is said: Notting sensed, everything possessed. That's right, and that's why we can't even vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3600	The word has a folk MP Radisa Ilic, followed by Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3601	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, how to see it lately, and this time has been going on since the Democrats were in power, since the rule of Serbia, the National Assembly has often dealt with the adoption of laws relating to guarantees between the Republic of Serbia and various banks and funds for obtaining huge loans that are supposed to be spent on improving, or building infrastructure in Serbia. So, again, we have loans for Serbia's roads, more specifically for the 'Belgrade around Belgrade', then the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, with regard to the construction of dwellings for refugees, although it would most honestly be a donation, given that this Europe has contributed to the exodus of Serbs from Republika Srpska, from the Republic of Croatia, the Federation of BiH, with KIM. Also, we have a loan under the responsibility of JP Elektroprivreda Srbija. If we go back a few weeks, we will remember the agenda on which there were a dozen similar draft laws on the confirmation of the loan guarantee agreement from the European Bank for Development, the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, the European Investment Bank, etc. That's when we found out that the problems at the Public Enterprise "The Roads of Serbia", for "Gazel", and some other destinations will be resolved by multimillion-dollar loans from foreign banks. We have learned that the problems of irrigation, deforestation, regulation of river flows, projects relating to the professional improvement of future agricultural producers will be resolved by taking multimillion credits from foreign banks. Also, we have learned that building whole annexes at clinical centres in Serbia will be possible if multimillion credits are taken – again by foreign banks. Also, we have learned that investment in the public company EPS will only be possible if multimillion credits are raised – again by foreign banks. Only after a few weeks of re-loaning loans, loans to the EPS again, and these are the laws that are before us and that we are discussing. At a time when the whole world is running away from credit, at a time when the monetary system is shaking in almost the whole world, Serbia, slowly but surely, is falling into debt slavery, although the living mud has stepped into it a few years before, when those who have been drilling into the chest and who have repeatedly repeated themselves -- transition, experts, transparency, privatisation, Europe came to power. And in fact, crime was the worst of its kind, corruption, abuse of power. Here's a final example of what's going on in Zrenjanin, and then you'll remember the "Aerodrome" affair, remember the privatisation -- "three euros for the factory", remember 11m euros, but even though in actions, it's not cash, according to a prominent government member and senior DS official! Now it's the turn of the pass. Ever since you took power, you've promised before every election to draw with TV teams somewhere in front of Belgrade, in a field, so you'd use your hand to show where that bypass would go, just like you used to show your hand where the famous phantom bridge would rise across Ada. It is likely that the bridge in one's dreams will reach some requirement for a modest guarantee of about 50-60m euros, and Belgrade's mayor will hang the credit burden on the state of Serbia against the neck, while it will easily have the means to build a'scadra on Bojana' if, by any chance, they come under his hand. I wonder, when I analyse these laws dealing with loans, can something be done, built, reconstructed, can a project be built, and we don't have to look for loans in the white world? Is Serbia so weak, so incompetent, that it cannot find the means to fix at least one bridge on its own, but we must take the charity, but with the mandatory interest. These contracts show that the Republic of Serbia is only a guarantee, and that the interest wars will pay for JP's "Serbian Roads", i.e. JP EPS. It's another spill from the hollow to the blank. These are public enterprises, well-dominated from the budget, and it turns out that the government of the Republic of Serbia is still paying off these huge loans. Did anyone wonder what the revenue from the toll collection was, it was a matter of time. This summer they could see the days of a mile [km] column outside the charging ramps on the Bubanj stream and in Nis. Where's the money going? Well, the tax on registration of motor vehicles, then the rest of the proceeds. And there's no money again! I guess all those who have acquired a huge fortune through toll have been arrested, we all remember this affair here in Parliament. That's right, with the EPS, prices go to heaven, we don't just know what they're after. Is it perhaps the EU's electricity pricer? Why is it not the level of wages and pensions in the EU being pursued, but the price of electricity? They usually say when they want to justify some kind of power-gathering, they need funds to remount the environment, and this is where they raise loans for the same purpose. Here's an example from today's draft law, 36m euros in debt to the German financial institution KFW to implement environmental protection measures. After a few months, there will be a loan for a remont, for power lines, trafo stations, etc., but, of course, there will be additions. Government in Serbia with such an economic policy and such a non-serious attitude towards debt as if it is trying to lead the country to bankruptcy. I'm afraid that one day we will discuss loans to feed or treat Serbia. When we are up to our necks in debt mud, then we will symbolically be part of Europe, but as their debtors, and Serbia will be the ones who are making state policy to take away natural resources, to tear our territory still. The question is, when will the bill be completed? Some deadlines have been given for decades. So, too, those from the DS who bid to join the European Union, and 2010, 2012, 2020, 2030, and from the European Union insist on telling us that there is nothing of it, unless certain conditions are met, such as: destroy Serbia's Army, – Serbia's army has already been destroyed; the security services are already destroyed; the Serbian Orthodox Church is being weakened – trying in every way possible. And what is left is for Serbia to do as the European Union wishes - to recognise independent Kosovo, to official the secessionist statute of Vojvodina, directed by the DS, and - to arrest and deliver General Ratko Mladic and all those who are not in the mood for a new world order, Javier Solana, English and American ambassador, Wardsworth and Manter, to those who talk to them will probably be better! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3602	The word has the People's MP Boris Alexic, and after Milorad Buh. The remaining time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3603	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here, today we have reached an absolute hit among the bill's proposals, it is the bill to confirm the loan framework agreement concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. In this version of the bill, there is an English variant and a Serbian variant, and they are fundamentally different. The Serbian variant is full of errors and differs from the English version. Fortunately, they eventually wrote that the originals in English were, therefore, two originals. However, MPs are working towards this version in Serbian, but let's see what it is. Therefore, this bill aims to provide permanent housing units for about 400 refugee or former refugee households and 100 other households. Again, an inaccurate provision that will be difficult to interpret. Of course, we can all notice that it's a great shame that our country hasn't solved the refugee issue before. This borrowing occurs at a time when the global crisis is in motion. As you know, it came through a mortgage crisis in the United States, and that's how the City Bank, one of the biggest banks, and then there was a problem with financial derivatives, and there was no respect for the rules adopted in Basel 2, based on that contract. The risk management sector in these banks didn't seem to have decided too much. It is also a warning for our banks to pay a little more attention to the advice of their colleagues from the Risk Management Sector and the Legal Affairs Sector. In Article 3, of this law, it says that for each tranche of the Borrower and the Bank together, by fax, it is good that they did not predict, for example, the dove writer, the amount, interest rate, currency, withdrawal date, etc. Furthermore, it is said in the next view that the first payment must be made by 8 September 2008. Very interesting. But the most significant part of this bill is Article 4 in which it is said – the Borrower and Institution that implements the Project through the Bank commits to receive positive information from the bank's employees or from the external consultants of the bank that it employs, and to provide'su', it was likely to stand here 'all', necessary co-operation. So that's the first mistake. However, we have a new detail – the Bank, in particular, could have the same position on the spot to have an audit of the accounting of the Project that one or more consultants of its choice would carry out and on the cost of the Borrower would not fulfil any of their obligations under this loan. So again we have one problem with language, i.e. With translation here, a grammatical problem. On the cost of the Borrower, it turns out that the Borrower will bear all the costs the bank has, according to this attitude. So it must be corrected, this cannot stand, simply disrupting the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Next time, you should pay good attention, comb the text of the bill in Serbian or translate it in a valid manner. When it comes to interest rates, it's about lateness. The interest rate of the euroribor plus 2.5% is projected. It's a high interest rate, given that for housing loans we have a euro-fish of plus 1.7%, so in our country. As I said, in the English version of this bill is exactly what this is about, so I suggest you retranslate this Article 4 in a valid way, so that there is no problem in the application of this law. As for the law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank concerning the 'Belgrades Exchange', I would remind you that part of that bypass was destroyed in the 1999 NATO Pact aggression. So after NATO bombers come slowly and certain their banks and construction firms to make a profit here. I will also remind you that a Spanish pilot, Captain Adolfo Luis de la Os, who participated in the aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, said openly in an interview with a Spanish magazine – that they were deliberately targeted at civilian goals and that biological and chemical weapons were used. This is about a 60m-euro debt. We already have legal uncertainty in the third member of this bill, where it is said, –the guarantor undertakes to carry out his obligations on the first written request of the Bank whenever such a request occurs, and to pay the sums without any restrictions, whenever such a request occurs. Very interesting how we're going to interpret it. In Article 5, Amendments to the Finance Treaty – The Bank cannot change the terms of the Funding Treaty except with the previous written consent of the Guarantee, with the fact that the agreed agreement cannot be denied without reason. Here, too, is not a defined reason, so we have a problem with legal uncertainty again. These are some objections related to these two laws. I thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3604	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3605	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to be a little wider on the loan framework contract concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. The contract envisions 10m euros in funding for building housing units: 400 for the refugee population and 100 for other citizens. We should support this initiative of the state and accept all the credit lines, but this assembly should not be the bearer of these contracts, it should be the Assembly of Croatia, their Assembly. Why? The refugee population from Republika Srpska and the Republic of Croatia came to these areas with the genocide policy of the Croatian state and the Croatian state does not allow the return of exiled and exiled Krajisniks. According to UNHCR, only 55,000 Serbs who have been expelled have returned, and totalled nearly 800,000 have been expelled, and lives in Croatia. Their data goes on to say that around 14, probably now more Serbs who returned there, and there were 800,000, while retired, died. So somewhere, forty thousand, which is five percent. Croatians do not allow the restoration of property, do not allow the return of property, social and other rights. That is why I say, when we talk about the obligation of this state, it is the obligation of this country to return all Serbs to Croatia, based on an agreement between the two countries. We have an agreement on normalisation of relations from 1996 and the 2001 Succession Agreement. Croatia has ratified both agreements. That's why I'm saying, this should give Croatia funds, because it does not allow refugees to return. Integration is all that results from genocide and ethnic policy – keep Serbs in these areas. We took away all their property and their houses and their property and their pensions! We took away their rent rights! No apartment has been returned, no Serbian tenant rights in Croatia have been returned, and this has been returned to Slovenia, it has also been returned to BiH. They are being discriminated against in Croatia! Here's only based on household rights and everything else. Furthermore, no action by any Serb who has been expelled has been obtained on the basis of the privatisation of social property and state property in the Republic of Croatia. Now I'm going to show you how Croatia does it. At the end of last year, the Assembly passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, which allowed the sale of social enterprises, i.e. enterprises from the former republics: Slovenia, Croatia, BiH, Macedonia. In June, the technical government adopted a regulation enrolling social property in land books on the basis of which privatisation could be made. The privatisation of 16 companies whose founders were enterprises from Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia was carried out. At that moment, we were buried. I say, were buried, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia was covered by objections, protest notes from Slovenia. Janez Jansha said, "You will not enter Europe if you sell our businesses! "And all our companies sold from 1992 to 2000 in Slovenia and Croatia. The value of the assets owned by Serbian companies was about a billion and 800m euros. The value of the company's assets from Slovenia, Croatia and BiH is about 800 million. So the difference is 800 million. They sold, they charged, they lived off those funds, and that's Serbian property! The moment the Serbian state began to sell what belonged to them and the regulation defined that the funds would be left in a special account in the Republic of Serbia's budget, a salvo of protest notes immediately took place. The Slovenians sent a total of three protest notes. Now I'm going to read you and show you how they defend their property. The first note came in 203, the second 28.7 this year, the next 25.7 and then 19.8. What have they caused? They've caused an end to all privatisation activities. What about our billion-and-800-million-dollar property? Did our foreign ministry send any protest notes? No! No! Let them prove they did. Now, look how we take care of our state property. It's about huge funds, funds that used to be owned by NIS, EPS, "Wine Parish", "Tiger", "Synthelon" and many other enterprises that had property in the former republics. So I say, as far as this goes, this should be given to the Croats to pay. The support of refugees from the 1990s, when they began to come to these areas, was borne by Serbian citizens. No! No! All of this must be accounted for, addressed to the Croats and told – you expelled them, you do not allow them to return, you must bear the costs of their stay in Serbia's space. The government of Republika Srpska in persecution has an indicative account of what these funds are -- about 17 billion euros, from 1990 to today, this country has cost the refugee Corps, and the value of our assets that remain in Croatia alone is about 30 billion. They won't allow us to enter and return that property, they won't allow us to return property and social rights. The property of Serbian companies has also been sold alive by those funds. When we wanted to sell what belonged to us and made a commitment, according to the Sucession Agreement, that we would place these funds from privatisation on a special account, the Slovenians sent three protest notes, caused a reaction to the privatisation interruption, and the Croatian Foreign Ministry sent three protest notes. We bend our heads and keep our mouths shut. We can't keep our mouths shut! The government is responsible for all this, and for the expelled Serbs who are not returning, for the property the Croats are not returning, it is responsible for all the property that the Croats, Slovenians and BiH sold. She's gone. It's the property of our citizens. We still have the right to this property under the Sucession Agreement today. We have to run disputes, but we have to go. We're not doing anything to go and get that property back to whoever it belongs to. It belongs to our companies. The concession agreement is further envisaged – all assets of natural persons, 6,000 natural persons, citizens of Serbia from 1990 who had property in Slovenia, BiH, the Republic of Croatia, were recorded. The total value is estimated at 500m euros. Someone came back, someone went into the garage, burned, destroyed and devastated. Some of them had this situation where they were welcomed by the Croats who threw them out. Dispute initiated. These disputes last ten, fifteen years, with an uncertain fate when it will be over. I'm talking about the Krajina, 30 billion euros. We keep our mouths shut about all this. The war is over. (President: National MP, if you can bring an end, since the time of the parliamentary group has been used. I'm done. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3606	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is pronounced by MP Zoran Ostojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3607	In essence, this is not a classic violation of the Rules of Procedure – Article 225. Before I ask the question, I would like to express my satisfaction with the result of today's session and the reaction of the ruling majority to the LDP proposal from the beginning of today – that we all do everything together to strengthen our economy's immune system because of what is happening in the environment and because of what is happening in our country. I am pleased that the President of the Assembly has scheduled a session of the Finance Committee for tomorrow. Our party president and parliamentary group also sent a letter to Prime Minister Cvetkovic, and to the governor, and to the directors of the Stock Exchange and the Association of Banks. I hope that tomorrow in a quality debate we can find some sort of solution that will relax this situation which is really becoming unpleasant, due to the decline in stock market values etc. Perhaps this is the way we can show the citizens of Serbia that solutions are possible when Parliament takes over its part of the job to help the government. I think we MPs have this responsibility. We propose that the state increase deposit guarantees from the current level to help banks. What might make you uncomfortable, but obviously that's an emergency, is that public spending in a situation where money is not in Europe or in the world, and when the liquidity of the domestic economy falls, it has to be reduced. We're ahead of budget rebalance. It may be an opportunity to help the economy, to keep more money to the economy, and the state to tighten the belt. Because, in the end, our citizens, who these days are jumping credit payments due to the drop in dinars, will also have to tighten their belts. It's kind of fair for the state to show it first. I hope this is the beginning of some new practice and together we can do things that will benefit the citizens, because that's why they chose us. And the question, in order to remain strictly by procedure – the Honorable Vice President, do you have any information on whether the invited Prime Minister, Governor or Minister of Finance, will attend the session, or all together? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3608	The chairman of the Committee on Finance called for the 6th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for Thursday, 9 October 2008, starting at 12:00 p.m., with the next agenda, from one point – the report on measures taken to mitigate the negative effects of the global financial crisis on the financial system of the Republic of Serbia, and through it on the state of business and the standard of citizens. National Bank of Serbia Governor Radovan Jelasic and State Secretary of the Finance Ministry Slobodan Ilic will attend the meeting of the Finance Committee. The session will be held in the National Assembly building, on 14th Street of King Milan, in the press room. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. An authorized promoter? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3609	Dear Members, first of all, I would like to thank you for your discussion on constructive proposals. I would like to make some clarifications on the bill proposals for these four major projects that should be significantly completed by financial debt. I would concern the first group of questions with the fear of a number of MPs that the state would enter into a debt crisis or debt slavery or living mud or, as we called in previous discussions, 186m euros in debt. There is no fear that the state will go into a debt crisis, as Serbia belongs to a group of small-scale countries under master criteria. I note that the countries we mentioned, such as Croatia, have far, far greater responsibilities. I say openly that this government will continue to lead a responsible policy that will ensure macroeconomic stability and this state will not be found in a group of highly-indebted countries, regardless of the specific loans and credit arrangements it is entering. I note that in 2008, the country's total GDP was 2,773 billion, and I ask all MPs to look at the Government's Memorandum of Budget and Economic and Fiscal Policy site for the period 2009-2011, which will make it quite clear where Serbia is at this point in debt. Another group of issues, related to the concern that abuse will take place in the use of the funds provided for by loans, especially when it comes to housing resolutions for refugees and displaced persons, i.e. refugees who in the previous period chose the Republic of Serbia and 100 families who could not find another way to solve their housing problem. Fortunately, this agreement, if we read it in detail, fully explains that such abuses will not be possible. The Treaty itself also defines the criteria set by the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe for the selection of both the municipality and the selection of people who will receive those apartments. First, the criteria for selecting municipalities are related to those municipalities that have the largest number of refugees on their territory, and secondly, municipalities that are ready to provide free land on which buildings will be built. Also in preparation for this project, a survey has been conducted among those who would be potential housing users and research has shown that a very good face-to-own relationship towards their own funds that they are willing to invest to resolve their housing issue. For the resolution of 500 housing units, funds from the envisaged loan will be used, as well as funds from the Republic of Serbia, which will be provided from the NIP and in one part of the funds of those who are future holders of residential rights, i.e. owners of these apartments. Those funds won't be big. These funds will be on extremely favourable interest and those who are willing to be users of these apartments are ready to provide these funds from their work. I note that it is a large number of people who, meanwhile, have found a job in the Republic of Serbia. Third question related to the NIP. Of course, I could give a lot of angles from which we could comment on previous exposure, but I want to draw attention to a few. First of all, whether this country is able to finance certain projects other than credit. So, 842 projects are currently financed by NIP funds which, once again, is the largest development project in the Republic of Serbia. In the last year, 842 projects hired 400m euros in funds. So, for 2008, the Republic of Serbia has provided 400m euros for projects carried out in all municipalities of the Republic of Serbia. The answer to the question asked about the project from environmental science in Panchev. From neither 2007 nor 2008, nor in 2009 applications, there is no project mentioned here. I also note that for all projects on how to spend funds, applicability, degree of realization, very quickly, in five minutes, you can get information, and in 2009 and at the NIP Ministry site we will have a cross-section with each change, a daily intersection on the degree of physical and financial realization. These projects, which are now spoken of, and infrastructure related to the bypass, and apartments related to the Development Bank, and ecologically, have budgets which are composed not only of loans, but also of budgets in which significant funds are provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget. We feel with full responsibility that they are spent in a transparent and responsible way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2008-10-08-0.u3610	I am concluding a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the "Belgrade Highway and Passways", Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank "Tables around Belgrade", Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Treaty on Loan concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to the German Financial Institution KFW under the responsibility of the JP "Electroprivred Serbia" (Measure of the environment in the thermal power plants on lignite). I'd like to inform you that we will continue work tomorrow, 9 October at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
