ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7031	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that there are 127 MPs present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Nikola Lazic. I would like to inform you that I am, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for Mr. Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Mr. Jovan Ćosic, Head of Justice. We move to the 4th and 5th points of the agenda: – I would just like to remind you of Article 93. The Rules of Procedure, the last position of this member, which says he is applying for a word, with a number of MPs, are submitted by MPs and MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups in writing until the opening of the search, and by other participants in the debate orally after the opening of the search. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 4 and 5, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. This time of five hours is distributed in the following way: Parliament group "For European Serbia" – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group – one hour, nine minutes and 36 seconds; G17 parliamentary group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; DSS - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliament group "Forward Serbia" - 24 minutes; SPS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; MEP group – eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these agenda points: Krasic Zoran - SRS and Nebojsa Rangelović - LDP. In accordance with Article 140(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the draft law on the public prosecutor's office and the draft law on the State Council of Prosecutors. Does the proposing representative, Mrs. Snezana Malovic, want a word? He does. Excuse me, Madam Minister, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudic first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7032	Articles 225 and 226. Yesterday, the Democratic Party issued a statement calling the Democratic Party of Serbia's political stance over Eulexa a false patriotism. There's got to be something to say about that. So that's where I'd go with the words, if I were you, the patriotism and the nepatriotism at all, the false, the like, or the like. This is about respecting the Constitution of this country, it's about respecting the decisions of this home. The three resolutions were passed by this assembly, and the last (for which you, gentlemen of the Democratic Party, voted) very clearly defines the relationship towards the Eulex mission in Kosovo and Metohija. From that moment until now, without any decision of the National Assembly, the good part of the parties in this House, which now makes up the ruling majority, has given up this state policy that is set out in this House. You now accept Eulex. Boris Tadic, on behalf of the government of the Republic of Serbia, is as if the prime minister, since he who is, who wears that cap behind him when he is painted, obviously not, advocates that EULEX is acceptable under certain conditions. One of these conditions is that Eulex is status neutral. You know what, the state of the Republic of Serbia and this home of state policy led until spring this year have advocated the territorial integrity of the state in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the Constitution also advocates the territorial integrity of our country. From this moment on, it is obvious that the government of the Republic of Serbia and Boris Tadic is pushing for something else. They advocate the status neutrality of a part of their country's territory. How else can it be interpreted? It is said that an international mission, which is to implement the law and constitution of the Republic of Kosovo, must be statusally neutral. That means at least two things. First, it means that we agree lightly, under any firm, whatever it was called, that an international organisation implements the laws and regulations of the self-proclaimed independent state of Kosovo. That's number one, because no one in any negotiations, or at least we haven't been informed, has questioned any moment. Two, if that's not even the case, then it means that this country has lowered its level of reaction to the problem it has with Kosovo and Metohija, with the protection of territorial sovereignty and the integrity of the state to the notion of status neutrality. That's what you do. Then you accuse the DSS of false patriotism. What's the name of what you're doing? Tell yourself, I wouldn't say those words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7033	National MP Ljubomir Kragovic has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7034	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been injured. Namely, what's this about? In addition to the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was violated: in the preamble in Article 1 which defines the Republic of Serbia, in Article 12, which defines the province's autonomy and local self-government, as well as in Article 107, which allows and gives the right, constitutional law, to propose laws. Namely, what's going on? At the meeting of the Community of Kosovo and Metohija municipalities, we made a decision a month ago to collect signatures in the Stop Eulex action. 70320 signatures have been collected. One copy of this copy was delivered to the President of the Republic of Tadic, another copy was delivered by the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic and the third copy was delivered to the Embassy of the Russian Federation. What is problematic is that, when we were admitted to the presidential residence, as well as in the National Assembly building, we were denied access to journalists, as if we were coming from Bangladesh or Zambia, not to represent the endangered Serb people from Kosovo and Metohija, so no information was delivered. Now I want to point to Article 107's injury again. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly states that 30,000 citizens have the right to sign the law. Since we have collected more than 70,000, namely 70,320 signatures, it is twice as much as necessary that, in the form of the act, a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, which would be in line with the resolution that was last adopted in December 2007, which continues to be binding. It is therefore embarrassing both by the president of the Republic of Serbia and by the president of the Assembly for not publishing any single information on the fact that six representatives, six citizens, six delegates of the Assembly of the Kosovo and Metohija municipalities were with them. We were even received by the head of Parliament's protocol, they did not allow us to receive this petition, although we made a lot of effort and effort to reach this petition and to show this assembly, both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia what the position of the Serbian people from Kosovo and Metohija is. The attitude of everyone in Kosovo and Metohija is precisely that the Eulexa mission has nothing to look for in the space of Kosovo and Metohija and we demand that both the Government and the Ministry and the President of the Republic, as well as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be determined according to our request from Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7035	Thank you. Ms. Minister, Mrs. Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7036	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a society without crime would be an ideal or perfect society, but as there is no perfection in life, so is a society that does not commit crimes, however, unfortunately, only utopia. This results in the democratic state's legal system being forced to combat crime vigorously, and this goal will be possible if we have valid laws concerning the organisation and jurisdiction of public prosecutors. I am therefore pleased that today's debate on the laws governing the organisation of the public prosecutor's office is on the agenda. Those laws, on the one hand, represent the harmonisation of the laws in this area with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and, on the other hand, make new solutions that will lead to significant public prosecutorial reform and contribute to increasing its efficiency and improving the quality of its work. Now, in the shortest lines, I would like to introduce you to the most significant solutions contained in each of these laws. Public prosecutor's law. The new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in a different and more complete manner, regulates the position of the public prosecutor and contains provisions on the deputy public prosecutor, which has not been the constitutional category so far. In addition to the necessary compliance with the Constitution, this law systematically and precisely standardises the regulation and work of the public prosecutors. Also, given the authority of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and the Prosecutor's Office for the fight against organised crime, it is necessary to appoint them as public prosecutors of special jurisdiction. In addition to these prosecutions of special jurisdiction, in accordance with the organisation of courts, there are basic, senior and appeal public prosecutors responsible for handling the relevant courts. The current public prosecutor's law does not discuss the principle of hierarchy in the public prosecutor's office as necessary. This law therefore sets out more fully the relationship between certain public prosecutors, as well as the issue of mandatory instructions for action. The disciplinary responsibility of the public prosecutor and of the deputies in force in law is merely indicated through the warning measures or the removal from the public prosecutor's office because of the unconscious or unprofessional performance of the duty, if it is not such that it requires a resolution. The adoption of this law, which prescribes disciplinary offences and more fully determines the disciplinary responsibility of public prosecutors or deputies, balances their position in the process of determining the reasons for the resolution because of the unconscious conduct of the prosecutor's office as a disciplinary offence. The draft law on the Public Prosecutor's Office consists of 12 chapters: basic provisions, regulation of the Public Prosecutor's Office, judicial administration, the position of public prosecutor and deputy, selection of public prosecutor's office holders, termination of the prosecutor's office, evaluation of work, disciplinary proceedings, the College of Public Prosecutors, staff in the Public Prosecutor's Office, means of work, and transitional and final provisions. The basic provisions of the law in the first one define the public prosecutor's office as an independent state body, which prosecutes perpetrators of criminal acts and other criminal acts and takes measures to protect constitutionality and legality. The role of the public prosecutor is carried out by the Republic's public prosecutor and other public prosecutors in accordance with the law. The basic provisions lay down the principle of independence, under which the public prosecutor and deputy are independent in the exercise of their powers. At the same time, any influence on the work of the public prosecutor's office is prohibited by the executive or legislative authority. The second chapter of this law contains provisions on types of public prosecutor's office, hierarchy, jurisdiction and administration in public prosecutors. The Republic of Serbia has a Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, an appeal, a higher, a basic and public prosecutor's office. The D.A.'s special jurisdiction is the D.A.'s Office for the fight against organised crime and the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office. The two prosecutors and the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office are established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia. An appeal, more and more basic public prosecutor's office is being established for the area of the appropriate court. The bill also contains provisions relating to the principle of hierarchy. The external authority shall consist of the possibility of a directly senior public prosecutor to issue mandatory instructions for handling in legal matters. Such instructions are issued in certain cases, must be in writing, and the law provides for a procedure in case the lower public prosecutor doubts the legality of the instructions issued. In addition, the authority is also examined in that a directly senior public prosecutor can take all the actions authorised by the lower public prosecutor. In that case, the directly senior public prosecutor is obliged to make a decision, and the law has prescribed the proceedings under appeal against the solution. The exemption provisions have been amended in relation to the applicable law in the case of a decision on the exemption of the Republic of Public Prosecutor. According to the Constitution, it is decided by the State's Major Prosecutors. The Public Prosecutor's Office's Office is responsible for the proper and timely work of the public prosecutor's office, decides on the rights of the deputy's employment relationship and on staff's employment in the public prosecutor's office and conducts other tasks by law. Unlike the solutions that exist in the applicable law, it is proposed that the Public Prosecutor's Administration Regulation be adopted by the minister in charge of the judiciary, in the light of the attached opinion of the Republic Public Prosecutor. The judicial administration in the head includes the provision of material, financial, spatial and other conditions for the work of public prosecutors, the provision of financial resources for the professional training of public prosecutors, deputies and employees in the public prosecutor's office, as well as giving consent to the act on internal planning and job systemisation. The position of the public prosecutor and deputy, in chapter four, has been determined by provisions governing the fundamental rights and obligations of prosecutors, the duration of their duties, distance, transfer and referral, incompatibility of the prosecutor's office with other functions and jobs, as well as the material position of public prosecutors and deputies. The public prosecutor is elected for a period of six years and can be re-elected, and the deputy is permanent after the first three-year term. If the public prosecutor's office is suspended, or the number of deputies is reduced, the public prosecutor, or the deputy, shall continue to serve as public prosecutor, or the deputy in the public prosecutor's office appointed by the State's chief prosecutor, on the proposal of the Republic Public Prosecutor. Unlike the law so far, it is possible for the deputy to be sent to the State Major Prosecutors, the ministry responsible for the judiciary, the institution responsible for training in the judiciary and the international organisation in the area of justice. Compared to the current law, there are fully defined functions and jobs that are incompatible with the prosecutor's office, as well as jobs that the public prosecutor and deputy can carry out while they are in office. The decision-making process on the incompatibility of certain functions or dealings with the prosecutor's office has also been prescribed. Chapter 5 contains provisions on the selection of public prosecutors and deputies and the election procedure, on the oath and entry into the prosecutor's office. According to the Constitution, the public prosecutor is ordered to be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the government. The law suggests that the list of candidates for the public prosecutor is made up of State's larger prosecutors and is delivered to the government to refer the proposal to the National Assembly. The position of the deputy public prosecutor is also in line with the constitution, so it is predicted that the National Assembly decides on its first election, on a proposal from the State Council of Prosecutors. For the permanent performance of the deputy public prosecutor's office, the State Major Prosecutors elects, which also decides on their election in another public prosecutor's office. The law lays down general and specific conditions for the election of a public prosecutor and deputy, as well as the procedure for their election. In line with constitutional guarantees of equality in the management of public affairs, the proposal and selection of public prosecutors and deputies shall take into account the national composition of the population and the appropriate representation of members of national minorities. The termination of the prosecutor's office is arranged in the head of the Sixth Law. The function of a public prosecutor, i.e. a deputy, ceases on a personal request, when he completes his working life, when he permanently loses his ability to work or when he is relieved. The public prosecutor's office stops and if he is not re-elected and the deputy is not elected to permanent office. The National Assembly decides on the termination of the office of the Public Prosecutor, with a decision on the resolution being made on the government's proposal and a decision on the termination of the Deputy Prosecutor's office by the State Major Prosecutors. The alignment of this law with the new Constitution is also reflected in the regulation of the remedy at the disposal of the public prosecutor and the deputy. Namely, a complaint to the Constitutional Court within 30 days of the date of delivery of the decision may be made against the decision of the National Assembly, i.e. the State Council of Prosecutors on the termination of office. Chapter 7 of the Law contains provisions which do not exist in the applicable law, which relate to the evaluation of the work of the public prosecutor and the deputy. Since this evaluation is the basis for choice, compulsory training and the resolution of the public prosecutor and deputies, it is necessary to be based on published, objective and uniform criteria based on applicable and comparable criteria. These criteria shall be laid down by the State's Chief Prosecutors by means of a Regulation on the criteria and criteria for the evaluation of work. Discipline responsibility and disciplinary procedure are also a newspaper, and are governed by the provisions of the 8th Law. It has been determined that a disciplinary offence is an unconscious exercise of the prosecutor's office or the behaviour of a public prosecutor, or a deputy prosecutor who is unworthy of their functions. The law stipulates which actions by a public prosecutor, i.e. a deputy, commits a disciplinary offense, i.e. what constitutes a serious disciplinary offence, and what is considered a repeated disciplinary violation. Certain disciplinary sanctions are foreseen for the offences committed, which are: public notice, reduction of wages up to 50% to one year and ban on progress up to three years. The disciplinary authorities are the disciplinary prosecutor and his deputy and disciplinary commission, which is being educated by the State's senior prosecutors. At the proposal of the disciplinary prosecutor, the disciplinary commission is in charge of the proceedings and is making a decision that all participants in the proceedings can appeal to the State's council of prosecutors. A judicial decision imposing disciplinary sanctions shall be entered in the personal list of the public prosecutor, i.e. the deputy. Chapter 9 introduces a College of Public Prosecutors, which forms a public prosecutor and deputies in the public prosecutor's office. The law lay down the powers of the public prosecutor's college, as well as the special powers of the College of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. It is predicted that a republican public prosecutor can call an extended college of the republican public prosecutor, including appeals public prosecutors, senior public prosecutors, public prosecutors for special purposes. Public prosecutor's staff, Chapter 10, are prosecutor's assistants, interns and civil servants and deputies employed in administrative, technical, accounting, information and other accompanying affairs relevant to the public prosecutor's office. The law also contains a provision for the public prosecutor's secretary to assist the public prosecutor in the affairs of the prosecutor's office. The Republic Public Prosecutor's Office has a secretary, and for other public prosecutors, such a possibility is proposed. Chapter 11 contains provisions on resources for the operation of public prosecutors. As so far, it is proposed that these funds be provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget, so as to maintain the independence and regular work of public prosecutors. However, the way in which these funds are allocated for specific purposes is also regulated in relation to the applicable law. The law stipulates that state-larged prosecutors are proposing the scope and structure of the budget necessary for the ongoing expenditures of the public prosecutor's office. The allocation of these funds for the current expenditure shall be made by the State's major prosecutors on its own, that is, with the agreement of the Ministry of Justice, only in the case of funds intended for capital expenditure. It is also predicted that the control of all funds identified for the work of the public prosecutors is being conducted by the State's major prosecutors, the finance ministry and the ministry responsible for the judiciary. The said ministries will perform and oversee the financial and material operations of the State Council of Prosecutors, in a work related to funds for the work of the public prosecutors. Chapter 12 contains transitional and final provisions. These provisions set deadlines for the selection of public prosecutors and deputies, the concession of cases and the acquisition of resources for the work of employees, the deadlines for the adoption of sublaws, the termination of the former law and the entry into force of the law. The new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia significantly amended the position of public prosecutors and deputies. According to the earlier constitution, only public prosecutors had permanent office. The new constitution stipulates that deputy public prosecutors have a permanent post, except when they are first elected to the post. In addition, the constitution stipulates that a public prosecutor is elected for a period of six years. For these reasons, as well as the new organisation of the public prosecutor's office provided for by the bill, the choice of all public prosecutors and their deputies should be made. At the end of this presentation of the Bill on Public Prosecutor's Office, I would like to say a few words about the process of drafting this law. The initial, working version of the public prosecutor's law was created by a working group that was jointly educated by the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and the Association of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Public Prosecutors of Serbia. That version of the law is addressed to the Council of Europe to obtain expertise. After that, a number of round tables were held during 2007 and 2008 to discuss certain solutions from the work version text. An expert meeting was also held with experts from the Council of Europe, who gave an opinion on the text of the work version and presented the same on a round table held in early November 2007. Experts positively assessed these texts, as well as experts from the European Commission who were in Belgrade during April 2008. That text was also delivered to the general public via the Justice Ministry website. The original text of the work version, in accordance with the suggestions provided, has been amended and improved. In early September 2008, an expert debate was held on the text of the working version of the law, organised by the Ministry of Justice and the OSCE Mission. Afterwards, the Ministry prepared a draft law which, according to the Government's Rules of Procedure, was delivered to obtain opinions, competent authorities and the Republic of Public Prosecutor's Office which had no objections to the law. The final text of the draft law addressed to the Government in order to establish the draft law for the National Assembly was drawn up after opinions. A presentation of the final text of the bill was carried out just before the adoption of the cabinet's session, held on a round table in Belgrade on 29 October. As far as the State Council of Prosecutors law is concerned, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 164 prescribes the position, composition and choice of the State Council of Prosecutors. The state's major prosecutor is a newly established body in our legal system. In accordance with the provisions of the laws relating to the organisation and jurisdiction of the public prosecutors, the election and termination of the office of public prosecutors and their deputies, the State Major Prosecutors as an independent body providing and guaranteeing the independence of public prosecutors and deputies is established. The independence of the State Council of Prosecutors is viewed in an independent capacity by means of labour, in accordance with the law, as well as in the form and manner of the election of election members of the state council. Through the provisions on the jurisdiction of the State Council of Prosecutors, which primarily concern the establishment of a list of candidates for the election of the Republic Public Prosecutor and Public Prosecutors, the proposal of a candidate for first election for the deputy public prosecutors and the selection of deputy public prosecutors, as well as the termination of the deputy office, created the conditions for this authority to ensure the independence of public prosecutors and their deputies. This ensures not only the independence of prosecutors and their deputies, but also the strengthening of their responsibilities. Therefore, more impact of the profession on the choice and resolution of prosecutors and their deputies is possible. In the State Council of Prosecutors, most members are just made up of public prosecutors and their deputies, who have been proposed by the prosecutors themselves. The election of election members of the State Council of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors shall be held in the same way as the election of election members of the High Council of Judges, which shall contribute to the widest representation of the public prosecutor's office in the State Council. The adoption of legislation on the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, which are in line with European and international standards, meets the requirements set by the national justice reform strategy and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Given that the same task force has been working on the text of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors' Law, they are largely identical. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that after the debate in the principles and details of the proposed laws will be adopted, creating a regulatory framework for an effective and effective prosecutorial organisation, in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the needs of our country and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7037	Thank you. Do the rapporteurs of the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, the MPs of Bosko Ristic or Vlatko Ratkovic, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7038	Madam President, honourable government representatives, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I will see that, although I have the right to do so as a professor, I do not repeat what has already been said about the whole set of laws. That is why I will concentrate on a few of my personal observations and on a few questions I would like to get an answer from a representative, or a representative of the Government. First of all, I would refer to the interpretation of a whole set of laws, and the State Council of Prosecutors and the Public Prosecutor's Law. The government's wish is understandable, and it is understandable that the Minister's wish to best show the positive elements of these laws and, accordingly, to define parliament positively under these laws, but I would make one complaint. I believe that MPs are primarily interested in the proposal's intentions, the proposal's dilemma of some proposed solutions, the reasons for new solutions. I do not think it is necessary for MPs to be given an explanation of where something is in the law, but we have expected from interpretation to hear why something was done and why individual solutions were given. In general, both the LDP parliamentary group and I personally believe that it could have been more fortunate to approach the legal solution to this problem. I'd like to give a brief review, and I hope that fellow traditionalists in this House will support my approach. I have not noticed that the promoter referred to a rich historical tradition in the legislative solution to this problem, and I believe that the historical tradition also provides guidance and, on some issues, far better solutions. I think it's tragic for a country that has such a rich tradition, let's say that the promoters did not refer to the 1860 Penal Code or the 1865 Code of Criminal Procedure. To remind me, that is the first time a public prosecutor's institution has been introduced, and the law guarantees, in a serious way, the independence of the prosecutor's office. Or, for example, the 1901 Law on the Military Prosecutor's Office, where the military itself, we can say -- the most round segment of society, gave a solution to its judicial system for the independent position of the military prosecutor. I'd like to ask the representatives of the promoters why they didn't consider the 1920 State Prosecutor's Law. Paradoxically, the six-year dictatorship, which in itself is a non-democratic category and not a very famous part of our history, has drawn up a law that guarantees the independent position of the state's prosecutor. I have not seen any of this state-of-the-art tradition in the process of making a proposal for these laws and in the process of passing these laws. Of course, there's something called a limiting factor. If I were a representative of the government, I would certainly rely on that limiting factor. His name is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. He, too, agreed with those who brought him, was very bad. So Article 159 is a limiting factor, which the legislators simply couldn't avoid. Accordingly, I would ask the proposings whether there is a way and how to avoid the restrictive attributes of the provisions contained in Article 159? The constitution declares independence as a public prosecutor, and then says: "The public prosecutor is elected by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the government. "So there is no public prosecutor without the government's consent. I would like the proposings to give us an explanation on how to avoid the influence of the executive authority on the public prosecutor's office when the Constitution itself declares that the government has a direct impact on the choice of public prosecutors, and hence on the exercise of the prosecutor's office itself. Don't mind my professional deformity, I'll give you a brief explanation, reminding me of the members of 170 and 171. Dushan's code. Namely, Emperor Stefan Dušan, 700 years ago, had more hearing for the independence of judges and court apparatus than today's legislators. Let me remind you, in article 170, it says, "Judges to judge by the Code, not in fear of my kingdom." Or, a 171 member who calls on state judges to "pre-hear the book of the empire to me", according to the legislator, or Emperor Stefan Dušan, "which is written in anger, love, or nice". If 700 years ago a ruler had heard of the independence of the court's apparatus, I would like to get an explanation why the current government has no hearing of the state's attorney's independence. And, of course, the question for any critics of this set of laws who participated in the process of adopting the Constitution – why did they allow the Constitution to see the light of day so upside down, and now they criticise the laws based on the provisions of the Constitution? And, of course, the question that has been asked, and it is also about the previous set of laws – how does the legislator think he is dealing with limiting factors called deadlines? He also needs to give us a brief explanation of his view of the functioning of the prosecutor's apparatus, which by definition is a hierarchical body, according to the fact that now the number of prosecutors will be somewhat reduced and the number of deputy public prosecutors is increased, as the legislator sees the possibility of a direct authority elder, i.e. a direct body manager, i.e. A public prosecutor, how a public prosecutor can control such a massive machine under him, I mean the deputy public prosecutors. So in the final word of the legislator, I'd like to hear brief explanations about these questions that I've asked. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7039	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7040	Today on the agenda we have practically the same thing we had yesterday, only instead of the judges we're talking about public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. No wonder there is no difference between the law on the High Council of the Judiciary and this State Council of Prosecutors law, the principle is essentially the same. I think I'd be wasting unnecessary time in a principled debate if I were to repeat practically what I was saying yesterday, only instead of the judge I should say - a public prosecutor. But this other law, the public prosecutor's law, is really interesting. I must say that there are many more grounds, in terms of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in these two draft laws than in those laws that we had on the agenda yesterday. It certainly is a big step forward of this government, which finally managed to read something written in the Constitution. However, due to the very fact that a network of courts is being changed, and this is being followed by the prosecution, it remains a fundamental observation that whoever exercises power will practically have absolute control over public prosecutors. Some kind of influence, some domain of influence must certainly exist, regardless of these provisions, which only sound nice, about some independence and independence. Because both the prosecution's position in relation to the court and the judges is completely different, and there must be some touching points there, but the question is whether the right measure has been found in these regulations. I don't think the right measure has been found. Now I'm going to start reading something from this bill. Of course, it would not be good for those who follow the transmission of the session of the National Assembly to take this comically and to laugh. I also ask MPs not to laugh when I read what they wrote in this bill. It'll probably make someone laugh if they have in mind the existing situation in our judiciary and what they're writing in the bill, but you have to understand that DS for what it says now in the new bill thinks it's going to be in the future. Because they are heading towards this discontinuity, they do not want to have anything to do with the dark past of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of being with the SPS in the coalition, they do not want to have anything to do with those constitutional, legal solutions, even though these legal solutions are still in force today on the 1991 Public Prosecutor's Office, although that 1990 Constitution has been in many detail and in many areas far ahead of this constitution that was brought several years ago. So, let's start with the wording of the oath by the prosecutors. Between the oath and the curse, it's not just the "yes," as one man said -- proactive, although no one knows what that means. Here's what takes the oath of someone who wants to deal with the prosecutor's office, the text of the oath reads, it's Article 84. Proposal for a Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office: "I pledge my honor to perform a public prosecutorial function in a committed, safe and impartial manner and to protect the constitutionality and legality, human rights and civil freedom. "More or less of a similar oath has been taken so far. If the text of the oath is taken and this is what we have read, it is not clear to me at all who is wrong – whether whoever wrote in the law what these people should read or perhaps these people who have read it, so they are considered to be additionally and morally obliged to respect the Constitution and the law, and in practice we see prosecutors being arrested for the closeness, co-operation or conduct of some crimes. What does the text of the oath mean? However, we have oaths both before God and in church, so people break those oaths. A man goes to church, kneels, takes an oath -- so help me God, swears honor, family, children, the future, the past of ancestors, etc. And he came to the people's congregation, and said, "We have divided ourselves, what is the matter with you?" So, between the oath and the curse, there's just a difference in "yes." And the difference is whether someone respects the given word or does not respect the given word. There's no other difference. I will not read you the oath of the President of the Republic; it refers to Kosovo and Metohija, and see what it does. Then you're surprised when they appear, apparently, some curses. There are very nice curses. He says that you, Boris Tadic, may be the president of the Republic. Yeah, it happened to you, too. You have another curse, he says -- he may have driven you by Alexander Vukic; he may have led you by Veroljub Arsic; he may have been your secretary. Look, it's a hard oath. Let's just say, I hope he defended you from the criminals, Hansel Dacic. Here's how the oaths are devalued. Those vows should have something to do with something. Of course, what the lady said, to achieve the ideal of a democratic society and the European Union in this space, which is, as you said, a society without crime, if you want a society without crime, then put this government in prison and there will be no crime at all. I've even got a better idea. Since the President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Minister of Police, Minister of Military, etc. They have these private security, so there's a budget of 10-15 people, then a car, so one villa, another villa, third villa, you can solve all that, there's an empty space in CZ. Put the President of the Republic in one cell, the Prime Minister in another cell, the third-cell defence minister, the fourth-cell minister of police, and these prosecutors, these judges who also have security, into the next cells; they have free construction, one of them being guarded and able to fight freely and not be known in public. These are the best examples of rationalisation and reduction of budget spending. You see how beautiful that sounds like an ideal, like an illusion and something that can be called an empty promise. Like, for example, during the election there was -- here's a contract with the Fiat 700 million, here's 500,000 we hire, we raise the pensions 10%, and it was only valid until the vote is over. After the vote - who said it, we said, so we will do it. Here, they've been doing that for eight years, taking care of our judiciary now that it's part of the justice agenda, and it's never in a worse position. Please, look how nice that sounds, but it just sounds nice. It's called the Public Prosecutor's Office of Special Jurisdiction, then the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime. Since when did we get this organized crime? Who did the organized crime to us? I guess someone from abroad installed it. Representatives of the organised crime co-operated with the DOS and when it was due to go down and when Micunovic was to be given 500,000 marks in December 1996 to preserve protests, protests were held. Afterwards, of course, Gonzales came in, so he took care of this, so now we've got these tycoons. They weren't tycoons 15-20 years ago. This one holds this, the one holds that, now they're funding, now they're the sponsors of this new party for breaking Serbia. You have the D.A.'s Office of War Crimes. Well, how long do you think you're holding this war crimes prosecutor? Armed conflicts have long been over. The UN tribunal no longer presses charges. You'd have to press charges all the time. Against whom? Is it possible you haven't finished in eight years? Or do you want that German concept of denacification after 1945 to eliminate political opponents? You're supposed to be the most beautiful and the smartest, etc. These are some of the things that are listed here. They are cited because behind this are, above all, the political interests of those who are in power right now, and they think they should be in the future, because they simply can't imagine that there could be some power here without being democratic and pro-European. You had the opportunity to hear from Professor Rangelovic earlier, but you misunderstood, he merely pointed out in his discussion that there is a very good legal history in our space. But you won't see it, you're looking for European solutions. You are looking for these European solutions, and the European Union has not dealt with these problems using these solutions; neither has Italy defeated organised crime, this organised crime has received some other forms. He's getting other forms with us. This form comes down to the fact that crime will now have its political parties, its representatives here. In 2001 we said well – every state has a mafia, and here the mafia has its power. They're bragging about how they helped. Let me remind you of those witness associates of yours. Because of the status of witness associates now the police are following this man; he's closing the deal, he's doing business normally, and now that he's gone to work somewhere, people see the police, so they say -- this is probably the job we have to do, we have to conclude. You provided a monopoly on the market to the witnesses of your associates. You remember in time, there were even songs about how Chume paves and Rushett is funding. There was a CD published, I shared here in the Assembly, so people laughed, God, Jr., all in folk songs, singing folk songs about the Democratic Party and their government. Rasheta basira, and Chume pasphates. So, citizens, they just want to keep it, everything and everything they have to write in this law, that they have to respect the Constitution and the law, etc. We have a new Code of Criminal Procedure that practically does not apply. See how many different processes these are. A few years ago, a new Code of Criminal Procedure was passed. The investigation was transferred from court to the public prosecutor's office. Now you're pulling the public prosecutor's office out, focusing on 30 and some places, maybe 120 places. It's a completely reverse process, and it's said that the police, the part of the police involved in the fight against crime, will be heavily influenced and will work on the prosecution's orders. I'd like to remind you of some things. Let's say, who is this prosecutor who could apply Article 269. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia? Now, any citizen can look for this code and see that this member has his own title, which is – the inconsistency of criminal prosecution for real remorse. That would be about like this: since I filed some criminal charges and I see it going well, now it's come to the First District Public Prosecutor's Office, I expect the prosecution to say - we're pressing charges, or we're saying no criminal charges, so I'll press charges later as a prosecutor against those who stole the mandates by tearing off official charges. So the crime is completely clear. Can you imagine now the public prosecutor saying, well, we're not going after Smokey because he destroyed his resignations? You don't know who Smokey is? You were young in 1993, if you'd read the paper, you'd understand. It's embarrassing to explain that to you right now. So, how could the first municipal public prosecutor say -- it's impossible to prosecute Tomislav Nikolic for the crime of destroying an official document for real remorse? He doesn't regret it. He comes here and says, "I'm an MP." It's funded by these mobsters, Peconi, Zecevic, Nicovici, Trgomen, whoever you want, it's a racketeering society. They're gonna recalibrate everything. When are you going to solve this? Here, I'm making a big contribution to getting rid of it. My contribution is criminal charges. Drop the criminal charges, I'm running away. But you will not reject it, but it suits you because Boris Tadic finds it appropriate that Mr Nikolic allowed the ambassador of England to move forward here, to become the deputy foreign minister of Great Britain, because the big deal ended here, he slightly reduced the reputation of the Serbian Radical Party. Well, dear prosecutors, that's what you're expected to do. It is further said - the prosecutor's office has been authorised to initiate proceedings to assess constitutionality and legality. Is that what we're gonna have? How independent is the prosecutor, in fact? He's not independent at all. I must tell you, he will never be as independent as you write in these laws of yours. Tell me, how is it possible for a deputy public prosecutor to get the file, conduct an investigation, find out that there are elements for a crime, that there is a reasonable doubt, that he has good evidence and that he's pressing charges? Well, he won't, he'll have to ask the public prosecutor, but if the case is a garage, then he'll have to have a senior prosecutor, and if it's a little bigger case, then he'll have to v.d. a republican public prosecutor. We've got V.D. state in courts. We've got V.D. a republican public prosecutor. Now the representatives of the government will say – when this law is passed, then we will choose a new public prosecutor, or we, the National Assembly, in accordance with the Constitution. It's a condition to get out of this vacuum state. It is not a condition, but it will be that it will come down to one, that the other may ride. Who's the other one? The one who has to listen to this. This new solution is no different from that of Batic in 2003 when the government was setting up. Here only that solution is legalized by placing this body and misusing the majority of the National Assembly, nothing else will change. It'll be like that dialectic -- oath, curse, and that proportion. Tadic swears to Kosovo and Metohija, will preserve him, and who believes him? Public prosecutors will abide by the Constitution, the law, etc., and in the Assembly there are people who should not be in the Assembly and should be elected as the Republic Public Prosecutor by those people who should not sit here, those against whom criminal proceedings should be conducted. That's really some weird stuff. We have a lot of amendments, like a space to criticise and stamp out all the negative phenomena, socially harmful phenomena for the people, for the country, for the prosperity of this people, and we'll use it nicely. The starting point of all these stories and the end of all these stories is Boris Tadic, who rose above the Constitution, above the law. He thinks he can do anything, beyond that oath he took.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7041	The word has a folk MP Nenad Konstantinovic and then Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7042	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, we have two more laws in front of us from this set of judicial laws: the Public Prosecutor's Law and the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors. A lot has already been said about judicial reform over the past two days; and today my predecessors have said a lot about, that there are solutions that are similar, about judges and prosecutors, and that's true. What I would like to stress is that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was voted by the citizens of this country and who supported the minority by all MPs of the Serbian Parliament, has appointed the prosecutor's office, appointed the prosecutor's office as independent in the work, and that part cannot be changed by law. What is important is that before the constitution was adopted, the National Strategy for Justice Reform, that the National Strategy was adopted in this House, that a minister of justice who was in the DSS participated in the National Strategy, that solutions from the National Strategy were introduced into the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I am surprised that the DSS criticises the set of these laws, so the law on judges and the law on the prosecution, given that they included solutions from the National Strategy for Justice Reform. As far as these two laws are concerned, almost everything in the National Strategy has been introduced into the laws, except for one thing. That thing refers to mandatory instructions. That's when most of them wanted to, and she put it in the National Strategy, so that mandatory instructions on prosecutors could be given by the minister of justice. We thought it was wrong, that it was the interference of the executive authority in the independence of the prosecution's office and the prosecution's work, and that part was not included in the laws. When it comes to prosecutors, and when it comes to judges, our concept is the same, which is that judges and prosecutors should be independent, that prosecutors should be independent of the executive authority and that the executive authority should at least influence the prosecution. There were examples, which were mentioned, that laws were passed where the government even appointed prosecutors. We don't think that was good. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides that prosecutors are elected to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the government. We have tried to fix this by this law, in the sense that the choice of prosecutors is more affected by the profession and by prosecutors themselves than by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That is why the law provides for a solution for the election of prosecutors to be part of the State's major prosecutor. The state's major prosecutors are elected in most of the prosecutors themselves. So prosecutors make up most of the state's attorneys' council and they will propose to the government candidates for deputies and public prosecutors. So the profession gives candidates, and besides those candidates proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, no other National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can be proposed. That's a good solution. We ruled out, as far as possible, the influence of politics, the influence of the D.A.'s executive authority and the choice of the prosecution. On this occasion, I must commend the work of professional associations. These solutions, which fix the Constitution as far as possible, have been made by the Prosecutors' Association. The Prosecutors' Association did not wait for the Ministry or any political party or MPs in the National Assembly to come up with a law on prosecutors and a state council. They also wrote 97% of the legal text written by the Prosecutors' Association, in agreement with the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, was accepted by the Justice Ministry and is here before us. I note once again, I think that this is a good way of working and a good model for the future when it comes to other legal proposals, that professional associations make proposals, and that we listen to those who know it better in the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7043	I thank Mr. Konstantinovic. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7044	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have two more important laws in the area of justice, a draft law on the public prosecutor's office and a bill on the State Council of Prosecutors. When it comes to the functioning of the judiciary, the practice so far has shown many shortcomings, which ultimately made the principle of rule of law more difficult. It was a constant problem in the past, and it still is. On the other hand, there is a significant ineffectiveness of our judiciary, despite the fact that we have, on average, more perpetrators, or holders of judicial functions, in the judicial authority than many other countries that have fewer of those, whose judiciary is more effective compared to our judiciary. The new Constitution has set out the principle of independence of the prosecution in relation to the executive and legislative authority, but also in relation to the judiciary in a narrow sense, because the nature of the work of the prosecution and the judiciary are two different categories in criminal proceedings that operate from different positions. The very fact that the new Constitution abolishes the High Council of Justice dealing with issues and courts and prosecutors, and establishes special institutes, on the one hand, the State's Major Prosecutor's Office, on the other hand, the High Council of the Judiciary, is talking about trying to bring things to the right place. It is one of the preconditions in a very difficult and long-term process of self-restraining of these important functions of the judicial authority. One of the basic assumptions of independence and independence of the judiciary is the depoliticalisation of this sphere of power. In practice so far, the issue of depoliticalisation has been regularly tripped in the election of the perpetrators, i.e. the bearers of this government, and this issue has always been controversial and is still controversial. It is very difficult to find a model in choice and in the functioning of judicial authorities outside and without the influence of politics, which is the ideal of a democratic society that we, too, hope, are seeking. These laws, the public prosecutor's law and the bill on the State's Council of Prosecutors, seem to prevent a greater impact of politics, and, on the other hand, to allow the greater impact of the profession on the choice and resolution of prosecutors and their deputies. In this regard, it may be one of the thin spots in the law, which politics or political parties can break through politicisation in the election of a public prosecutor, Article 74. Proposal for a law on the public prosecutor's office that defines the public prosecutor's choice. The position of the 2nd member states: "The government proposes to the National Assembly one or more candidates to elect as public prosecutor. "It's, in itself, okay. Article 3 says "The candidates of Article 2 of this article are proposing from a list of candidates established by the State's senior prosecutors. "Finally, paragraph 4: "The state's senior prosecutor is delivering a list to the government of one or more candidates for the election as public prosecutor. In case the state's chief prosecutor proposes only one candidate to the government, the government can return the proposal to the state's council of prosecutors. "It is a thin place, and if read carefully, the question arises as to why it is said in Section 1 that the Government is proposing one or two, and in Section 4, if we have a list of one candidate proposed by the State's senior prosecutors, it can drink water and propose to the National Assembly, but it does not, it can be subsequently asked to give two. There is already a scale and measure that is the proposal, that more possibly, by some measure, by some criteria that may be political nature, by the government. The second thin spot for the politicisation of the judiciary is in Article 51(6). The Law on the State Council of Prosecutors, which reads: "The High Council of Justice, within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law, proposes to the National Assembly of one or more candidates for each election member", is referred to as the first composition of the State Council, "from the public prosecutor's order, i.e. Deputy Public Prosecutors. "In general, the first composition of the State Council of Prosecutors can be a very controversial and thin place in terms of prolonging this political influence, a team before the High Council of Justice here has the role in the process of proposing. I don't want to reconsider, but it can be assumed or left to say that the High Council of Justice, which currently works, is burdened with political views that can influence what will be the choice of the first composition of the State's council of attorneys. We just had an argument, with which I agree, that in the election of a public prosecutor we have that he is elected in the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, and on the previous explanation and proposal of the State Council of Prosecutors to the Government, which forwards these proposals to the National Assembly. One of the thin spots that should be amended, and the SPS-JS parliamentary group has proposed an amendment, is a member of the 97th Public Prosecutor's Law, where a decision on the termination of the public prosecutor's office is said to be taken by the National Assembly, with a decision on the resolution being made on the government's proposal. The site should be repaired by the government proposing a public prosecutor's discharge on the basis of the reasons set out by the State Council of Prosecutors, because it is the authority which is first competent to propose a proposal to the government and explain the reasons for the resolution. If a public prosecutor's resolution is carried out on a proposal by the government, without justification, without a proposal from the State Council of Prosecutors, then it can be suspected that the resolution will be carried out on the basis of political reasons for the majority in the government or the majority in the National Assembly that is currently ruling. What is worth mentioning, and as chairman of the Committee on International Relations, I would like to underline this, are the provisions in Article 82 of the Law on Public Prosecutors which speak of general conditions for the selection of public prosecutorial functions, and in paragraph 2 there is an important question: "When selecting and proposing for the selection of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, the national composition of the population, the proper representation of members of national minorities, and the knowledge of professional legal terminology in the language of the national minority, which is officially used in the court. "We think it's a good solution. It should also give good consideration to the amendment of the parliamentary group of national minorities to Article 122, which speaks of the involvement, i.e. the involvement of trainees in judicial bodies in the same principle, taking into account the national composition of the population and what is the need for the existence of personnel in the order of national minorities in that part. The next question is courting, which was the case, and there is no need to talk about it in this part. It certainly leaves behind the consequences and the assembly of prosecutors, according to the number of public prosecutors, so that it can really leave negative consequences on the effectiveness of the work of this body. The fact is that the constitution has been defined as a monocrat system for the prosecution's arrangements, which means that one person is a public prosecutor, while all others are persons acting on behalf of the prosecutor. Let's say that when we have 30-50 deputies acting on behalf of a public prosecutor, and the only public prosecutor is responsible for the prosecution's functioning, and therefore, individually, for the deputies, there can really be major problems. Of course, the SPS does not rule in the sense that these proposals are not good; they have good intentions and go in the direction of full independence and independence, but we also have to accept the fact that this is a very large and difficult procedure and that the whole reconstruction mechanism provided for by this law will not go so easily. We also have a situation, something to think about, related to Article 82 of the Public Prosecutor's Office Act, where conditions are defined, that is, years of age and years of insurance internship, and termination of functions on that basis. In this case, the termination of office at the same time also means the retirement of public prosecutors, i.e. deputies, or the completion of a job. The term "execution of the working century", i.e. "extending of the working century", if proposed by the public prosecutor, is even used in attitude 2, meaning that this issue must be brought into line with the Labour Act, in the work on the termination of the employment relationship at 65 years of age and at least 15 years of insurance training. Furthermore, the SPS-JS parliamentary club believes that perhaps, through the amendments, it is necessary to consider moving deadlines relating to the validity of the functions of existing public prosecutors already working under the current law and deputy public prosecutors to 31. 3. In 2010, which also means moving other deadlines for setting new deadlines, etc. What makes such a shift of deadlines? For the simple reason that current practice in Serbia has shown that we have often passed laws that we have not been able to bring into force, i.e. to implement within the deadlines that were scheduled, which we have adopted. I repeat, this is about large-scale procedures, very complex reconstruction mechanisms, where we even had a situation where we might be deviating from the Constitutional Law, in terms of the order in which to choose public prosecutorial functions, but in practice it is simply impossible to respect the order literally and to the end. So our MP club is aware of the weight and complexity of the whole procedure and for these reasons suggests moving. So, the SPS-JS parliamentary group, despite certain shortcomings and inconsistencies in the proposals of the Public Prosecutor's Law and the State Council of Prosecutors Act, can and will vote in favour of the adoption of these laws, with reasonable grooming through amendments. The SPS-JS parliamentary group does not believe that the legislator of these laws intended further politicisation of the judiciary, nor "implementation of some lustration" from political motives, which may be burdened by some parties, and that the whole intention towards comparing these laws to European standards and towards functioning of an independent judiciary in the Republic of Serbia. If it turns out there's some of what's not true, the SPS and the JS will have a way to react.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7045	Thank you, Mr. Michaelovich. In accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: ZES, SRS, SPS-JS, DSS-Vojislav Kostunica and LDP. I give my word to the MP, Mrs. Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7046	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, I could only rely on yesterday's discussion of previous laws relating to the judiciary, the Judges and the High Council of the Judiciary, given that these laws today are very similar in terms of treatment of independence, independence, control, expertise and responsibility of the Prosecutors, so that I could once again just point out that we, as LDP, are very pleased that these laws are even today on the agenda of our assembly. The question arises whether these laws achieve independence, depoliticalisation, expertise and responsibility of the prosecutor's staff. There is one problem in independence and depolitisation, and this problem is already mentioned in the Constitution, specifically members of 158 and 159. The Constitution. We fully understand that the legislator could not go beyond the mandatory provisions of the Constitution and had to be able to comply and to coordinate his solutions with these constitutional solutions that are quite outdated, and also affect both independence and depolitisation of the prosecution. For what reason? Because in the case of a republican prosecutor, as well as with public prosecutors, the reelection still requires some agreement, or some government opinion, and the government is, as far as I know, an executive body. It is only after the government's consent, which has reviewed the persons proposed to her for such important functions as the prosecutor's office, that the assembly decides, so we introduce, in fact, and the legislative authority in the creation of the prosecutor's policy. Undermining, the republican prosecutor and the public prosecutors are the most important factors for the prosecution's functioning. Therefore, if we have such interference with the executive and legislative authorities in these segments, then we are literally introducing a policy, because we know who makes up the assembly, we know who forms the government. Thus, with all due respect and respect for those who created and gave consideration to this law in the congregation, we still feel that the best solution has not been reached, but we respect this limiting factor they have faced. As far as the expertise and responsibilities of the public prosecutors are concerned, we believe that these legal proposals have actually given us the opportunity for the most professional and most responsible prosecutors, i.e. the deputy prosecutors to deal with the prosecutor's work, the prosecution's trade, because every job is actually a trade. The trade is that everyone must become master of his craft in order to be able to do it and to carry it out safely. There's a very big task in front of the prosecutors. Organized crime, corruption, war crimes, co-operation with The Hague tribunal, an increase in crime in transition, terrorism, all these are major challenges and responsibility for prosecutors to be elected under these laws that are proposed. Now that we're deciding on this high council of the prosecution, we have to bear in mind that this initiative that is being launched by prosecutors in the conduct of criminal proceedings is very important, because the prosecutor is the one who decides whether or not a person will be prosecuted. Therefore, the High Council of Prosecutors must be a body that will be able to deal with such responsibility, since it does not matter whether a member of the High Council is someone who is obedient, who will listen to the government's proposals and advice, hence the executive body, on whether and how to prosecute a certain criminal offence. It is a great responsibility, a major challenge given through the high council of prosecutors, public prosecutors, the Republic Prosecutor, and through them by the deputy public prosecutors. We can make the best judiciary, we can pass the best laws to regulate the work of the judiciary, but unless we have an initiative from the prosecutors, in which case the courts can't act, so there are no acts in those criminal acts that could possibly involve the executive power involved in the work of the Republic, the public prosecutors, or the deputy prosecutors. Therefore, we can have high-quality judges, but without quality prosecutions, we only have a problem. We are going back to the same problem that has been highlighted during the debate on laws concerning courts. This is the limiting factor expressed through the provisions of the Constitution, which was adopted in 2006. It's a good thing there's a certain problem on the agenda that's related to the Constitution. In 2006 The Liberal Democratic Party stressed that the constitution is not modern to the extent it is presented, that certain solutions in the constitution are problematic. We boycotted the referendum that was called for on this constitution and we didn't even support its declaration. However, this constitution has been brought in. Now we have a problem, and we have no problem with that, because we have to decide on very important judicial laws, and we are constantly dealing with facts relating to independence, independence and depolitisation of judicial authorities. You'll let it, these are the backbones around which the question of whether we're really going to have a modern society or whether we're going to turn to some authority. In case we have political interference, in case we have the involvement of one branch of government in the area of another branch of government, in which case we have neither the modern judiciary, nor the modern prosecutor's office, nor the modern way of solving the problem that this branch of government is dealing with, I mean the judicial branch of power. It is good that the High Council of the Judiciary is indeed moving, very clearly and directly, from the domain of politics and from the domain of the second branch of the government, the legislative authority, the decision on the choice of judges. However, this is not the case with regard to the prosecution. Therefore, we have submitted certain amendments. We expect certain LDP amendments to be adopted, because they are only submitted for reasons to make certain corrections better, as far as the provisions of these laws are concerned. We reiterate and underline that we support reforms, support everything that is aimed at modernising the judiciary, the courts and the prosecution. To this end, we also support all the efforts of the authorities involved in this progress, these reforms and modernisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7047	Thank you, Mrs. Popovic. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7048	Dear Madam President, Ms Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, somehow in the shadow of the debate on judges and arrangements and areas of the courts and prosecutors, this debate on the public prosecutor's office remains, I think, unwarranted, because the public prosecutor's office is, in our opinion, the key cornerstone of the policy against crime and corruption, the struggle that at this point represents Serbia's own need, because citizens have been simply calling for justice for a long time. The public prosecutor's office and the people who are at the head of the public prosecutor's office, people who have the courage to face the fact that the perpetrators of the crimes are being prosecuted by those who need this society, are those who are expected to be the initiative and are expected to be the feathers of the fight against crime and corruption. When we look at these two bill proposals, they're on the verge of realising constitutional norms, and we can estimate a good part of those solutions. It's just that those solutions that are there, except for that part that concerns transitional and final provisions, which I'm going to say more about later, are the development of not only constitutional principles but everything that we know is the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. There was a controversy here about why the prosecution doesn't have that freedom that judges have. It's just that these two segments of the judiciary can't be the same. I cannot be the same for the simple reason, and this is clearly seen by the author, which is also the executive power that needs to be actively involved in the prosecution of perpetrators of criminal acts. In this regard, the government's initiative is to propose prosecutors to the National Assembly. These are, in our opinion, good solutions and it was indeed a pleasure to see that all political actors agreed on the proposal in 2006. The intervention in the Bill's proposal to include State Major Prosecutors in some way in the very process of proposing is good. In that sense, we can really say that the profession here is being asked, I hear here from the discussion that the Prosecutors' Association has also fully supported this law, which is unfortunately not the case when it comes to the laws governing the position of judges, where we have a sharp controversy in the public between the competent ministry and the Association of Judges of Serbia. I think that in these proposed laws, those parts relating to the precision of the public prosecutor's hierarchy, the need for the jurisdiction of prosecutors, from the Republic Prosecutor's office to the other prosecutors, and the ways of handling in the cases of precise offices, those parts relating to the devolution, which relate to the substitution, which refers to mandatory instructions, all of what we know in the judiciary, those parts relating to the taking of the case, the reasons for those decisions, are something that is regulated by this law in such a way that both more concrete, and clearer, and more specifically, the prosecution itself have the opportunity to initiate criminal proceedings and proceedings for the assessment of constitutionality and legality. But these two laws cannot be observed separately, which is where the view of our DSS parliamentary club differs from the proposings; we cannot, as we talked about yesterday's proposals for the law on judges, be seen separately from the proposal for a law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. What is announced by these laws that we've been most lenient about these days, which are the most controversial... The most controversial law in the set of these judicial laws is precisely the draft law on areas and seats of courts and public prosecutors. We are, of course, entering the part relating to the fact-finding re-election of public prosecutors and the fact that a large number of prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors will be left without a job, and that many municipalities in Serbia will simply be abolished by public prosecutors. Now we get to that part we've been discussing very closely these days. On the one hand, we have the fact that, in our opinion, that here we repeat, the availability of justice will be greatly reduced, but the question of how the declared fight against crime and corruption in certain areas will be fought, when we heard that crime and corruption in the judiciary flourish in these environments, if we don't have a public prosecutor's office in that environment. We don't have a public prosecutor's office to prosecute the perpetrators of criminal acts, so here's to justice. These are these issues, and these are the controversys created by the proposed law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. Of course, then we enter that section that refers to transitional and final provisions, where exactly all these controversys are being realized. Not to mention that the High Council of Justice will, in its current composition, literally enter the whole process of proposing and electing the State Council of Prosecutors, which we think is excellent, and this is a constitutional solution which is on track to what began in 2001 when the High Council of Justice was formed. Now this professional specialty through these two laws, on the High Council of the Judiciary and on the State Council of the Prosecutor's Office, is finally being implemented. We simply have two completely separate bodies that will deal with independence -- the prosecution here, the courts -- independence and independence, and, of course, their needs, education, disciplinary responsibility, finance and all that they need to guarantee the quality of the work of these organs. But it's not good, and these are the controversy and the bad solutions in both the transitional and the final provisions of this law, and the law on judges who were the subject of the debate yesterday, that the current Council of Justice's current assembly actually enters this whole business. That's what we believe to be one of the most important grudges besides this to be lifted by the public prosecutor's office. This, according to the DSS parliamentary group, will affect the effects and situation of the fight against crime and corruption, which is also defined in the prime minister's exposé as the fifth point, but is one of the government's policy priorities. Of course, at the previous session, we had a debate on important laws that should fight crime and corruption in advance, but if we narrow down to this extent the scope of public prosecutors, which are in fact following what are areas of courts, basic, higher and appeal, we think it will affect very badly. So these two problems are this law, which is technically the development of the Constitution and has solutions that have been generally implemented both in the strategy itself and in the Constitution... But it is completely disqualified by the law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors and transitional and final provisions, where, again, as in the case of the High Council of Justice, the current composition of the High Council of Justice plays a key role. In this way, this re-election that monitors the change of the prosecutor's network is rather controversial in that sense. Regardless of the quality of the solutions that exist in these draft laws, we are convinced that if the government (reappealing here to Minister Malovic) does not withdraw the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, this whole set of judicial laws, which is the development of the National Strategy for Justice Reform and the Constitution, will be dead letter on paper, will be completely ineffective, will create confusion in the judiciary and the prosecution, and above all, it has already created confusion among citizens. I also call on MPs from the parliamentary majority, from all political parties, not to support the bill. It is difficult to return to its environment afterwards and explain to the citizens why it was voted that in the middle you represent courts and prosecutors are being abolished without any argument, without any explanation, except that it is right in your place, in these courts and in these prosecutors, corruption is greater than in other cities in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7049	Thank you, Mr. Palalic. The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic has the word, and then Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7050	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the mandated representative of the SPS-JS Group has already delivered the SPS-JS's position on the proposal for the two laws. I'll take the opportunity to point out a few questions that convince us that these bill proposals should be supported, that they should be adopted, but at the same time point in a few points in the law that needs to be seen, with the aim of getting the best solutions. Otherwise, although I belong to the ruling majority, I believe that every remark, every suggestion, every proposal must be well considered and one worth accepting, regardless of who suggested it. One of the most important issues in Serbia today is the fight against corruption and crime. In addition to laws and other conditions, it is very important to have a well-organised, efficient, orderly, independent, impartial public prosecutor's office. When it comes to the prosecution, I don't want to talk about the work of the prosecution, about the daily problems and the failures it faces, but only about the law governing the organisation, jurisdiction, rights and responsibilities, the kind of prosecution, promotion, accountability, evaluation, etc., so a whole complex related to the work of the public prosecutor's office. First, I want to point out that, of course, the Constitution has arranged an independent judiciary and an independent prosecution; therefore, the prosecution defines it as an independent state body. What I also insist on, which is very clear here in the law, underlining, is the independence of the prosecutor and the deputy prosecutor in the exercise of office. I want to make this particularly clear, because it's a very important issue right now in the fight against crime. The law clearly prohibits any influence on the work of the public prosecutor's office, the work of the prosecutor and the deputy prosecutor. So I'm talking about the legal norm; I'm not talking about the everyday problems we face, I'm talking about whether the law creates conditions for such a thing. I warn you once again: the independence of a public prosecutor and the ban on influence on the work of a public prosecutor. No one has the right to influence the public prosecutor's office. The only ones who have the right to influence the public prosecutor's office are the Constitution, the law, international contracts and regulations passed under the law. It's something that's worth this law. Secondly, I would like to give the minister a chance to address the public once again with a clear explanation that the issue has been well considered, that they have taken into account all possible tasks to be done, any possible consequences that will arise from this, which is the issue of public prosecutor's arrangements. If we're looking at the public prosecutor's office, he's being made: the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the appeals, the higher, the basic and the prosecution's special jurisdiction. On the other hand, they follow an area for which appropriate courts are educated. Thus, it also states that the establishment of seats and areas of other public prosecutors is regulated by law. It was the subject of a debate in the previous days when court and public prosecutorial offices were discussed. I would like to warn again, to ask the minister to clarify once again whether it was all in the light of the Court and Prosecutor's Office's headquarters when it came to Belgrade's first basic court. The first basic court in Belgrade will include 1,700,000 people, more than some countries in the environment. The first basic court, with several hundred judges, will have a public prosecutor and several dozen deputy public prosecutors. If it is noted that the prosecutor's office is being held by a public prosecutor, and the deputy prosecutor's office only on behalf of the public prosecutor, that the prosecutor is organising and responsible for the prosecution's work, then the issue must be reviewed once more and see if it can work, whether it is too many and whether the prosecutor will be able to organise it in the best way, to monitor and answer for the work of those deputy prosecutors. If so, I don't mind, but I ask you once again to give a detailed explanation when it comes to such a massive basic court, which will have more cases, judges and prosecutors than any court in any country in the area. I would also like to point out that this law on the public prosecutor's office, unlike earlier, has very clearly established hierarchy. Of course, it was expressed through the authority of the D.A. directly compared to the lower one, through mandatory instructions, through the takeover of all the actions of the lower prosecutor's office, not to mention further. Simply put, a clear pyramid of the public prosecutor's office was established, starting with the Republic, which is more than any prosecutor's office. So, a clear pyramid was established, as I would say, for the prosecution in general. Also, when it comes to the public prosecutor's position, in addition to what I was saying about independence, I want to point out, and I simply insist on it, as follows: impartiality; a ban on political action and a question that still needs to be discussed and why it should be pursued, which is material independence, which is absolutely not controversial, but in these conditions, the question is how much it will be implemented, at this time; responsibility for the damages, etc. Another question, which I want to stay on for a while, is the part that talks about choice and resolution. I am not saying this because I would explain how the prosecutor's election and the resolution is envisaged, but simply to warn myself that once again, when it comes to these special conditions, the difference between the prosecutor and the deputy prosecutors and what conditions they need to meet. I would especially stick to two questions that are related to the termination of office. One question concerns the termination of office, especially when it comes to unprofessional performance. There is no dispute that someone who performs an unprofessional function should be resolved, his office stopped, but what we insist on is that when we evaluate the work, given that the prosecutor is worthy of the work of his deputy, and the senior prosecutor of the lower prosecutor, they should be very clear criteria and criteria, which should be strictly respected. Otherwise, abuse can occur in a perfidious way. You've seen from the law that's proposed that it's enough for someone to once get an "unsatisfactory" grade and get a condition for a function resolution. I repeat, instruction is also a condition for someone to be relieved of office. Valuation is absolutely necessary. What we insist on is clear criteria, clear criteria, with a view to preventing possible abuse. Secondly, this is what my colleague had already talked about, a representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, when it comes to the decision on the suspension that the Assembly is making on the government's proposal, it is necessary to further formulate itself. It is not disputed that this is brought by the Assembly on a proposal from the Government, but it is mandatory for the Assembly to bring it on a proposal from the Government by building the government's proposal on the grounds for the resolution set out by the State's larger prosecutors. In that sense, we have proposed an appropriate amendment. Not to be too long, I'd like to point out a few more things. You have the possibility in Article 10 of the Public Prosecutor's Office to inform the public of certain procedures. However, it stands there - making sure that there is no question of the procedure itself, taking care of the privacy of the participants of the proceedings, etc., but it must be kept in mind that we do not get into a situation, as was the case in practice, that someone is accused and condemned in advance, that such a public climate be made, and that there is nothing behind it. So, in that sense, you have to take another good look at that part. Our goal is to fight with all means of crime and corruption. But we're not meant to make any mistakes, or muddle anyone until whoever's authorized finds him guilty. I'm simply warning you about these things, let's just say, in detail when it comes to the prosecution's right to request a stay of execution. It's undeniable to give him that right, but it's also very important that he has clear arguments the moment he asks for a stay of execution. Otherwise, there may also be abuse. I don't want to raise any further questions, the essence of my discussion was that, of course, with support in principle regarding this law... I wasn't talking about the State Council law, as one new body, very important, which will be tasked with electing deputy public prosecutors to serve as permanent prosecutors, to propose deputy public prosecutors. However, there will be little further clarification that the State's Chief Prosecutors guarantee the prosecutor's independence. So he provides and guarantees. Full support for something like that, but I'm sure you need to see how to get there. Not to mention, I'm going back to square one, we're going to give support in principle to the proposals of these two laws. We have concrete suggestions and suggestions that do not disturb the essence of the law. We expect that in the coming days, when the debate is in particular, every issue to the end is clarified and everyone that can be accepted, regardless of who suggested it, and all with one basic goal: these seven laws are governed by an entire branch of government - a judicial branch, and absolutely necessary to reach these laws with the greatest degree of unity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7051	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The word has a folk MP Petar Jojic, followed by Mr. Aleksandar Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7052	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, with regard to the proposals of the Law on Public Prosecutors and the State Council of Prosecutors, and also to link their seats, should bear in mind the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 156 has normised the independence of the prosecution, as well as the independence of the public prosecutors and their deputies, but the model and the election of public prosecutors, as well as the election of members of the State Council of Prosecutors, have made it significantly difficult for the practical independence of the public prosecutors and the State Council of Prosecutors, should such a bill be passed. First, it envisions the existence of the College of Prosecutors and the College of the Republic Public Prosecutors as a form of collective decision-making. This can also have positive effects - one does not decide, but other ones participate in decisions that replace it, and when replaced, they have the same rights, powers and obligations. The law provides for a lower prosecutor, i.e. a deputy, to state the objection to the mandatory direction of the public prosecutor, not only in the case of the illegality of the instruction, but also if the instruction is unfounded, some kind of objection to the conscience. And here it could be said, since the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia predicts that everyone has the right to appeal and to object to a decision when deciding on his right or the right of another person of legal interest... True, there are also some solutions that the Serbian Radical Party is absolutely not satisfied with and will not accept, which are the following solutions when it comes to the prosecutor's organisation: the way in which the first composition of the State Prosecutor's Office is proposed by the Constitution in a completely different way, so that the bill proposes normation in a way that is not in line with the Constitution. The Serbian Radical Party believes that during the election of the first assembly of the State Council of Prosecutors, members of the State Council of Prosecutors should propose themselves prosecutors and deputies. We want an independent prosecutor's office, then get the prosecutors and deputies to propose themselves candidates from their ranks. What's the problem here? Some who have absolutely nothing to do with the judiciary are also involved in the judicial function. That applies to the professors of law school. What do law professors have to do with a prosecutor's organization? They can only keep a theory in college, but, in our opinion, we should not participate in the selection of candidates, in their resolution and advancement, because in that case we have a interference of administrative... , which is not even administrative, i.e. Law schools and professors who do not have this experience and legitimacy to decide on the vital interests of individuals and the public prosecutor's office. The first essay has an extraordinary task... I note, that also applies to the court. It's an extraordinary task, it's a filter, because this first composition is going to make a proposal and a choice - to propose prosecutors, and on the other hand to elect deputy public prosecutors. How can he do that? I choose myself. How? No organ has proposed or chosen me. What are the privileges of these 11 or 15 members to have in relation to other prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors? That's unacceptable. Practically, they're already selecting themselves in advance, and they're now going to elect prosecutors and deputy prosecutors. When new ones are selected, those elected for three years and those for whom the election is held for a permanent post in a subordinate position are subject to all policy criteria, politicians and political parties. Proposed choice of public prosecutors, i.e. deputy public prosecutors, who are first elected to office... Extraordinary tasks also require the extraordinary legitimacy of the State Council of Prosecutors. They must have extraordinary legitimacy. What does that mean? The mandate must first be confirmed, so let's see if they were in the past in the state council, or in the council for the judiciary and the judicial system. Who were those people? Let's see if they can replace the role, cross that line and bypass the procedure and the way prosecutors and deputy prosecutors are elected. So the privilege was made by the government, in the sense that the High Council of the Judiciary is now taking over the role and that it can choose. We don't think that's acceptable. That procedure and that filter must first be passed by major state prosecutors. The first filter for them, that's the previous question, and then to go to the election and re-election of public prosecutors, and the SRS is against re-election. When it comes to periodic evaluation, this draft law on the prosecution, the Ministry of Justice and the Proposer suggest that the basis for resolution can be one negative assessment. When you look at the reasons for the resolution and how many there are, you can find one harmless reason -- he didn't come in time for work, or he didn't make a complaint in time, or he didn't file a motion against the court to act on it. You see, in that case, it's not appropriate and it will give negative effects and will lead to numerous abuses. Who's going to do the abuses? Politicians. They will say - please, Miroslav Pantic did not meet this year, that is the reason for his resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a number of abuses in the application of this provision of the law. It was regulated in Articles 93 and 94 of the proposed law. The SRS finds this absolutely unacceptable and does not guarantee any deputy, not one prosecutor's permanent function. He will constantly be stressed whether his superior, justice minister, government or someone else influential in this country and some tycoon will say - the prosecutor is not responsible for us because he is chasing the tycoons in Serbia, so he should be absolutely removed and not allowed to do his job. And maybe it's about a decent man, maybe it's about an unsamped man. We from the Serbian Radical Party think this solution is not good. As far as the D.A.'s network is concerned, according to my information, the network of courts and prosecutors was not in line. How? The network of courts has been agreed at meetings in the Supreme Court by the President of the District Court, but I ask the question why were municipal courts and district courts not involved, but also all judges? Why weren't the public prosecutors involved? Public prosecutors say they were not involved when it came to a territorial organisation, i.e. areas. I have information that they weren't. The D.A.'s society points out that it wasn't involved. Madam Minister, it is evident that you are making efforts, your presence in parliament these days confirms that you have a different relationship with the National Assembly and with the MPs, which is absolutely acceptable. The other ministers do not see the messengers of the people, they do not come before the messengers of the people, and they should take account of their work. There have been cases of ministers coming here and treating the MPs as class elders or district chiefs. For that reason, I am obliged to be correct to you. Third, the draft did not determine (or I did not notice) the status of the prosecution in places where courts on the new network receive department status. Or, when it comes to days of jurisprudence, I don't know how you'll be able to overcome it because something like that isn't visible. So that question has to be settled. There have been objections from public prosecutors about seats and areas. I think you and those remarks have been considered. I have learned that a major contribution to the revision of these texts, written by the motionor to the competent Justice Ministry, has been given by professional associations, the Prosecutors' Association and the Association of Judges and Courts. Just a few more words. The right has been left for anyone to submit an initiative to discharge a public prosecutor. Please, it's not clear and it's not defined what's meant under every face. So any person can be a domestic and foreign person, therefore, and our citizen and foreign citizen, can be a natural person, full-time, minor, calculating, non-accountable, commercially capable, commercially incompetent and the like. Oh, God, guys, so what are you letting this happen? Why should we expose the prosecution organization and the prosecution and judges to such chicaning that everyone can launch initiatives? I think that's inadmissible. I apologize to my colleagues who will perform further, for their limited and divided time, and I will talk about the details in more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7053	I thank Mr. Jojic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7054	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, above all, as regards the proposed Law on Public Prosecutors and the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors, I believe that they are a full hit and that they are establishing a clear path towards the affirmation of the prosecutor's office as an independent and independent professional organisation, whose independence, on the other hand, will contribute to the more efficient work of all judicial authorities, as well as to an additional factor for the creation of sound foundations in the reform of the entire justice system in our country. What I would particularly point out, and what is clearly seen as a difference compared to the current way in which public prosecutors and their deputies are elected under the current law, is the circumstance that a public prosecutor is elected for a period of six years, instead of a permanent function so far, which ceases only for the legislation of the prescribed special reasons. I believe that this will increase the awareness of the prosecutor's office and the organisation, increase the responsibility of the public prosecutors necessary for the announced comprehensive reform of the judiciary. On the other hand, public prosecutors' deputies are now being elected permanently, instead of the legislation so far to be elected for an eight-year period, which may have caused some anxiety among prosecutors from political developments in the country, in the sense that after their mandates, they will be re-elected. Such a legal provision creates an opportunity for the full independence of the public prosecutor's office, which will in itself contribute to improving the efficiency of work and clear profiling of the prosecution as an independent professional and highly qualified organisation. Further certainty that the prosecutorial post will be completely independent and independent allows the state's chief prosecutors to propose to the National Assembly only for their first choice of deputy public prosecutor, while directly electing public prosecutors' deputies to serve as deputy public prosecutor. Finally, I would like to stress that, in light of the announced amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, when there is no investigation in the existing form, where a double job appears - in the police and in the court of an investigative judge, so when it is established so-called. The prosecutor's investigation, it is clear that such a well-conceived law will lead to a high professionalisation of the public prosecutor's office which will guarantee independence in the work and inviolability of the presummation of innocence among all citizens of our country. For this reason, the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia will support the above-mentioned draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7055	Thank you, Mr. Jankovic. The word is Miroslav Petkovic. He's not in the O.R. The word has Free Maras. He's also not in the O.R. The word has Dusan Maric. He's not in the O.R. either. The word is Mr. Lightning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7056	Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a law on the public prosecutor's office and a law on the State Council of Prosecutors. All of what was indicated yesterday, related to the wrong concept of the choice of judges, also applies in this case for the election of public prosecutors. Because of the very fact that the network of courts, as well as the way judges and public prosecutors are elected, there is one fundamental objection that we have and that is that the executive authority, so those who make up power and exercise power in this country, will influence both the choice of judges and the choice of public prosecutors. The ideal that is trying to establish itself in this society, which is a society with as little or as little crime as possible, is indeed a utopian concept that does not stand and that is really impossible to achieve in our society. Efforts to make Serbia one Denmark, for example, in which people, minors, are killed out of boredom because they have no personal, political and other problems, are indeed utopian and should not be pursued. It is simply necessary to build the institutions of a system that will function and it is necessary to establish such control of these institutions that at any moment it can be carried out and that the holders of these functions do their job in the right way and that the Constitution and the law prescribe it. With a few words, I'll refer to the D.A.'s special jurisdiction. They're the DA's office for organized crime and the D.A.'s Office of War Crimes. As far as organized crime is concerned, there is one floscule, which is that as much as you try harder to find new institutions and bodies to fight organised crime, it is stronger, more organized and more numerous. The authorities and organised crime are not and will not, I'm sure, not even the public prosecutors remain immune; this is what the practice so far shows us. As for the Public Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes, it should be said that what in our practice gives us two possibilities: one possibility is, in fact, that it is the prosecution for dealing with political opponents; another option it gives you is the possibility for daily policy needs. How? Whenever an important issue is raised on the agenda in this country, the public war crimes prosecutor's office takes the stage, with the accompanying elements that follow it, and then the search of alleged helpers Ratko Mladic begins, then financial control of some companies, Vujic and similar, etc. So it's all for daily political purposes. According to us, this public war crimes prosecution absolutely shouldn't exist. As for the principles under which the prosecution works and acts, I will refer to the principle of independence and the principle of impartiality. As far as the prosecutor's independence is concerned, it is a category that is almost impossible to achieve in our country, both because of the nature of the job and because of the influence of the official policy on the public prosecutor's office. Unbiasedness is directly related to this first category, with independence. If he is independent and impartial, then from where so many pending cases, from where so many criminal charges with public prosecutors they keep in their drawers, linked only to privatisation across Serbia. It shows that these two principles cannot be fulfilled so easily in our country. Your explanation that the profession gives candidates, as well as an explanation, I quote, "we ruled out how much power we could influence the choice of prosecutors," says that in fact, in practice, something else is quite different. Article 74 speaks of the election of public prosecutors. He says, "A public prosecutor, on a proposal from the government, is elected by the National Assembly. The government proposes to the National Assembly of one or more candidates for the election as public prosecutor. "There is a certain parallel between the election of judges and the election of public prosecutors. Regardless of the choice of judges is different from the choice of public prosecutors, the parallel is still clearly visible. First of all, in the election of judges, you're actually re-election judges. Although you say it's not a reelection, it's actually a re-election of judges, by violating one of the basic constitutional principles, which is the principle of state continuity, as well as the principle of respect for human rights acquired, for one basic reason, and that is - to carry out the lustration of judges. Those who are not fit will not be chosen, they will simply not pass the contest; others who are politically alike will pass. However, these first ones will either go to law school or somewhere else. When it comes to lawyers, and there, they say, is a small bar and a lot of crocodiles, more and more good experts, good lawyers and the judiciary getting worse. As for the second segment of this problem, the election of public prosecutors, it is done by electing the National Assembly on a proposal from the government. This is about double triage. Those who know what a trier machine is and what a classic will know what I'm talking about. What passes, which is being trained in the Government comes to the National Assembly, so there goes double triage, with the possibility of changing something, dress up, fix it, and then we absolutely get similar prosecutors. The aim of the public prosecutor's election concept is to get the election by electing politically similar prosecutors. There is a clear parallel between the election of public prosecutors and the election of judges, there is almost no difference in the very concept of each other's choices. The old Serbian proverb, "What Missed by Mali Radojica, is welcomed by Deli Radivoje", and crime and corruption in Serbia flourishes and blooms.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7057	The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic. After that, MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected representatives of the ministry, by discussing these two draft laws, the draft law on public prosecutors and the draft law on the State Council of Prosecutors, we are today practically finishing the debate on the set of judicial laws. As with previous draft laws, I will express my dissatisfaction that there was no public debate on these two draft laws. It is unacceptable that those to whom these solutions are to be applied were not able to get acquainted with the content and possibly respond to any proposed solutions. DSS MPs participated very actively in the debate on the set of judicial laws. I think you could conclude that our biggest objection is to the proposal for a law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. We find it unacceptable to abolish 104 municipal courts and so many prosecutors, without any predetermined criteria. This is, in the end, also a complaint sent by the Prosecutors' Association, because they felt that only representatives of the judicial authority were consulted when a new network of courts and prosecutors were created. The truth is, neither representatives of the court nor representatives of the prosecutor's office have been consulted. This draft law we could see on the Justice Department site has been withdrawn. He was gone a long time on the site, showed up a few days before these laws entered the congregation procedure, so no one had a chance to get acquainted with such solutions earlier. What is definitely an objection when it comes to the draft law on the seat and areas of the courts and prosecutors is that there is no particular status of the prosecution in those places where judicial units exist. I don't know how you're going to defend your argument that the availability of justice to all citizens in this case won't be compromised or disabled. I have to say, the truth is, it's not as big a flaw here as the courts are because the prosecution's jurisdiction is determined indirectly, based on the local jurisdiction of the courts. However, the question arises whether you will in this way enable all citizens who are interested and who believe that their rights are threatened to file criminal charges in the prosecutions, if the prosecution, the case works, is up to 110 kilometers away, such as the case of Bosilegrad and Vranja? In Vranj, there is also a competent prosecutor's office for Bosilegrad, and how do you expect a person who needs to file a criminal report to file a criminal complaint in the first place if he has to cross that mileage in one direction? I think they're very small grounds to defend these facts. The Democratic Party of Serbia also has objections to the election of the first assembly of the State Council of Prosecutors. They are of principle nature, as well as in the case of the Proposal for a Law on the High Council of the judiciary. What is unacceptable is that these members of the first composition of the State Council of Prosecutors do not pass the re-election. If, yesterday, I spoke of it, the re-election was accepted as a rule, why not apply it to all the public prosecutors, why not apply it to all the deputy public prosecutors? It is simply unacceptable that persons who will decide both on the deployment and on the election of public prosecutors and deputies will not pass the re-election. How do you think they will have legitimacy in front of their colleagues, who will ultimately choose if they are in such a privileged position? It is also unacceptable for us that the bill on the State Council of Prosecutors comes from the assumption that there is an autonomous province in Serbia. We have amendedly responded to all the members of the State Council Bill where an AP is mentioned and I find it extremely irresponsible not to accept such amendments. When it comes to Article 51. The draft law on the State Council of Prosecutors, we believe, should be amended in that direction that the High Council of Justice does not have this kind of authority. If you go into full analysis of the full member 51, then it is very clear to conclude that the High Council of Justice will also be able to propose candidates who have not passed the College of Public Prosecutors. That I am right to confirm the provision in Article 51 itself, where proposals by candidates who have passed the College of Public Prosecutors are said to be taken into account. There's no binding form of them being candidates. It is also unacceptable that the mandate in the first composition of the State Council of Prosecutors lasts five years. We think he's an inappropriate debt. We think it is the deadline when they are due to complete their role in July 2010, as provided for in Article 56 of this bill. The Democratic Party of Serbia has also submitted its amendments to these proposals of the law. We had good intentions to fix the text of this law. One of the key obstacles concerns exactly Article 6. Proposal for a law on the State Council of Prosecutors. We think he should change because it's unimaginable for the Republic Public Prosecutor to be president of the State's Council of Prosecutors at the same time. The state's major prosecutor should be an independent authority, which is in any case isolated from the prosecutor's organisation. It is inexplicable that he is handling the work of the State Council of Prosecutors and that he represents the work of the State Council of Prosecutors, since this is about completely incompatible functions. We also have an objection to Article 13, because we believe that the State's Major Prosecutors do not have the authority to propose officials of the Republic Public Prosecutor. If you start from an analysis of the entire bill, then it is clear that the Republic Public Prosecutor and all Public Prosecutors are elected by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, and on the basis of a set list of candidates from the State Council of Prosecutors. The state's chief prosecutor has no authority to choose or to appoint either the Republic Public Prosecutor or the acting official. We consider it best either to be appointed by the Government or to be the first deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. Here we should start with the fact that the D.A.'s office isn't so independent in its work. It is, in the end, part of the executive government, because the fact state has delegated certain powers to it. We cannot have the same relationship with the judges themselves, because judges should act completely independently in their affairs, and prosecutors cannot be completely independent of the executive authority. I agree that the influence of the executive authority should be reduced to the least possible, but it is unacceptable for them to be completely independent of the executive authority. To conclude, I think it would be much better if the Ministry of Justice addressed the issue of how to create conditions for the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is due to enter into force on 31 December 2008 and which provides for a completely different jurisdiction of the prosecution than it has created a whole new network of courts and prosecutors with regard to the organisation of their work. I think it's quite clear, on the basis of these discussions today and on the basis of discussions of all previous days, that the DSS simply cannot support any of the draft laws in the field of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7059	The word is by MP Srdjan Mikovic, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7060	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, if anything is better than the existing one, I think it should be publicly admitted. Today we are discussing the draft law on the public prosecutor's office and on the draft law on the State Council of Prosecutors, and I think we can all conclude that the proposed legislative solutions in the good part are significantly improving the existing legal solutions. The fact is that the active role in proposing these laws was precisely the Association of Public Prosecutors and that the ministry listened well to the proposals of those dealing with this problem, who know the problems best. In that sense, I could agree with some MPs who want to amend these bill proposals, if possible, but cannot be against the adoption of such laws. In any case, the draft law on the public prosecutor's office makes a whole series of solutions better than the existing ones. The current Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office does not discuss to the extent necessary the hierarchy of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and this law completes, regulates the relationship of certain public prosecutors and, most importantly, the issue of mandatory instructions for handling. So far, it has been possible to give instructions and verbally. However, this moment, by adopting the public prosecutor's law, as set out in the proposal, we are putting everything acting in a clear position that the person who gives the mandatory instruction must give it in writing, and the person who is not satisfied has the right to, according to the prescribed procedure, oppose it. The adoption of this law prescribes disciplinary violations and more fully regulates the disciplinary responsibility of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, equating their position in the process of determining the reasons for the resolution due to the unconscious performance of the prosecutor's office. In the former law, it was only the authority indicated. In this law, it's detailed. In our discussions, we were able to hear the wave of importance of the public prosecutor's actions, especially when prosecuted by the perpetrators of criminal acts and other criminal acts. I will point out what is not very noticeable in the public, which is a significant role of public prosecutors and prosecutors in taking measures to protect constitutionality and legality. It's something an ordinary citizen may not see at first sight, but the important role of public prosecutors is in this particular part. Not wanting to spend too much time, in any case, there will be opportunities when we consider amendments to refer to certain legal solutions given in the bill, I think it is a good thing that public prosecutors particularly regulate their position after the term of office. This is what contributes to guaranteeing the independence of prosecutors, because even in a situation where the public prosecutor is not re-elected, he is not existentially threatened. In that part, the public prosecutor remains immune to certain possible attempts at influence not his work. It's a good legal solution, and I think it should be pointed out specifically. The fact is that certain legal solutions have been criticised in discussions of some MPs. However, I underline that, especially with regard to the position, composition and election of the State Council of Prosecutors, certain things are regulated in the current Constitution in Article 164. No matter how critical it is that the State's Chief Prosecutors are to enter, as one of the representatives of the law school, the professor of law school, it is written in this Constitution. In that part, I must point out that I am particularly surprised that certain criticisms of that part of the law come from those structures that supported the vote of the Constitution on 8 November two years ago. Finally, I think we can all realize that all these laws will allow for a successful fight against all forms of crime. It will also enable better protection of constitutionality and legality, which is an important role of public prosecutors. In particular, we will be able to witness the implementation of a national strategy to fight corruption and money laundering. These draft laws are in line with European and international standards, as well as with European Partnership requirements. By adopting them, we will be one more step closer to our European goal and we will be able to better achieve their rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7061	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, followed by MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7062	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on the public prosecutor's office has passed one procedure through two draft laws: one was made on 9 and 10 October, the other October 26 and 27 October. By chance, I have one and the other draft laws, so I wanted to ask a question, but the minister is not there, why has there been drastic changes, given that from one to the other the draft has only been 15 days. Otherwise, the draft law on the prosecution is passed in order to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to create the principle of hierarchy in the public prosecutor's office, in order to discipline prosecutors. So we're creating a party prosecutor's office, as we have party courts, which we've been discussing the previous days. We heard Mrs. Minister and my assessment of her statement is: reading the reasoning – excellent, five; and her argument, not a sentence, is sufficient, one. She pointed to two variants of this bill; I will read it, but I will only be located on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, the first and second variants. According to the first version, we had the Criminal Court in Gorazdevec for the territory of the municipalities of Gora, Decani, Đakovica, East, Klina, Orahovac, Pec, Prizren, Suva Reka, with the court department in Velika Hoca; the Criminal Court in Gracanica for the territory of the municipality of Glogovac, Kačanik, Kosovo Polje, Novo Brdo, Obilić, Urosevac, Štimlje, Strpce, for the city of Pristina with the court department in Strpec; the Criminal Court in Kosovo Mitrovica for the territory of the municipalities of Vucitrn, Zvečan, Zubin Potok, Kosovska Mitrovica, Levujević, and Serb, with the courts in Zvecan, Zubina Potok, Leposavić, and Prilužje, and the Criminal Court in Rani Kosovštinjska Kosi, Konjić. The proposal covered the entire territory in which Serbs live in Kosovo and Metohija, covering both Kosovo Pomoravalje and central Kosovo and Metohija and the northern part of Kosovo and Metohija. The departments that were planned under the first draft are the Kosovo Mitrovica department for the area of criminal courts in Gorazdevec, Gracanica, Kosovo Mitrovica and Ranilug. Then, municipal courts: Municipality court in Gorazdevec for the territory of the municipalities of Gora, Decani, Đakovica, East, Klina, Orahovac, Pec and Suva River; Municipality court in Gracanica for the territory of Glogovac, Kačanik, Kosovo Polje, Novo Brdo, Obilić, Urosevic, Štimlje, Strpce and the city of Pristina; Municipal Court in Kosovo Mitrovica for the territory of the municipalities of Vučitrn, Zvečan, Zubin Potok, Kosovo Mitrovica, Podujevoj and Serbian, with the department of the court in Zubin Potok and the municipality court in Leposavić for the territory of the municipality of Leposavić, with the court department in Prilužje. Finally, the Municipal Court in Ranilugu for the territory of the municipalities of Vitina, Gjilana and Kosovo Kamenica. Analogically, the Kosovo Mitrovica District Court for the district courts Gorazdevac, Gracanica, Kosovo Mitrovica, Leposavic and Ranilug were also formed. On the basis of these, adequate public prosecutors were formed, so we had the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Gorazdevc for the district of the Municipal Court in Gorazdevec, the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Gracanica, the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Kosovo Mitrovica for the district of the Municipal Court in Kosovo Mitrovica, the Public Prosecutor's Office in Leposavic for the district of the Municipality Court in Leposavic and the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Ranilug for the area of the Municipality Court in Ranilug, as well as the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Kosovo Mitrovica for the district of the District Court in Kosovo Mitrovica. The draft law was exactly the one that would satisfy all Serbs in the KIM area. But 15 days after the draft, there is a suspension of all courts in Kosovo and Metohija, except for the Kosovo Mitrovica court, so we now have a misdemeanor court in Kosovo Mitrovica for the territory of AP Kosovo and Metohija. Further, basic courts: Kosovo Mitrovica's basic court for AP Kosovo and Metohija's territory and the Kosovo Mitrovica senior court for the main court in Kosovo Mitrovica. As far as the prosecution is concerned, we have a basic public prosecutor's office in Kosovo Mitrovica for the main court in Kosovo Mitrovica and a more public prosecutor's office in Kosovo Mitrovica for the area of higher court in Kosovo Mitrovica, so we are bringing into a very bad situation all residents living south of Kosovo Mitrovica, because they will be very difficult to seek justice and justice. A lot of questions are being asked. How will this one court function for the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija? The first draft here is probably changed because of this policy and the involvement of the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic in everything and everything in the state of Serbia, as well as in the judiciary. In fact, we had the opportunity to listen to his remarks on that round table at the "Sava Center" and we witnessed that against him were all those who were present, and even Vida Shkero, as representative of the court, that the Society of Judges, that the Supreme Court was against such a decision. So everything is contrary to what the judges are looking for and what they would suggest. This is where the lustration and elimination of the unsuitable; not the elimination of those unprofessional and unquality, but those that are not alike. Judges and public prosecutors will be only those who are similar and who can implement Boris Tadic's policy, which is absurd, given that we cannot go forward with such a policy but only go back. Also, there is an objection to re-election of judges through the high council of the judiciary. Then the Constitutional Court complained, for each of the judges who are not elected has the right to appeal only to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court says - we do not want to be a regular court, we do not debate the complaints of judges etc. There are many elements that suggest that this is only one political court under the orders of Boris Tadic, one set of laws that should satisfy Boris Tadic and this "yellow company". By the way, speaking of these courts, I'd like to read this 46th member of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which says, "The public prosecutor's function is carried out in the public interest, in order to ensure the application of the Constitution and the law... ". All are called on to protect the Constitution and laws, which must ensure respect and protection for human rights and fundamental freedoms. So human rights and fundamental freedoms are something that is the priority of Europe and the world. When we came from Kosovo and Metohija two days ago and brought 70,320 signatures we could not achieve our human rights and our freedoms. Our speaker of the assembly spoke to NATO representatives about human rights and freedoms at the moment, and Mr. President was busy. However, we will give them a second chance. In fact, we decided to invite all the committees of all local self-governments from Kosovo and Metohija, who may and may wish to come tomorrow at 1200 hours in front of the National Assembly building and the residence of the president of the state, to force them to masse... I count that there will be about 500 council members from Kosovo and Metohija; I guess it will be a figure that will intrigue the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic to see us so that we can tell him what Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija think, as well as the president of the National Assembly, so tomorrow at 12:00 a.m. most of the council members elected in the 11 May elections will be outside the National Assembly building.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7063	The People's Messenger Dusan Maric has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7064	Ladies and gentlemen, when these laws are passed to Serbian citizens, it will be announced that another significant step has been taken by Serbia on the road to European integration and their better life. However, it should be said to the citizens that none of this has anything to do with it. The adoption of these laws will essentially change nothing for them. They, like most or at least a good part of the existing laws in the judiciary, will remain a dead letter on paper. Serbian prosecutors are in the future, especially when it comes to the most serious crimes, as before, will mostly not interfere in their business. It will be until political consensus is reached in Serbia, until political will exists, particularly the political will of ruling parties and leaders of ruling parties, to deal with crime. That will is now gone. The basic reason why you do not have the will is the fact that Serbia, practically, is ruled by the mafia and organised crime. My opinion is that Serbia is not ruled by the government or by Mirko Cvetkovic, not even by these parties in the ruling coalition, but by members of organised crime, tycoons, organized mobs that have been brought down by the ruling parties, before all DS and G 17. Public prosecutors, excluding the war crimes prosecutor's office dealing with the export of Serbs to The Hague, are mostly not doing their job. For this reason, I will use this debate to remind myself of some drastic cases of indemnity, the failure of public prosecutors when it comes to some of the most serious crimes, including those of crimes that are directly aimed at undermining Serbia's constitutional order. I'll start at 5. Ten. In 2000. On that day, a group of people, some of whom are still present in this assembly, organized demonstrations aimed at violent changes in the constitutional order in Serbia. On that day, one person died, and several faces were more severe and more easily wounded. Violently occupied building of the state parliament, robbed, and then burned. Serbia has thus become another country in the newer history of Europe that has set its own parliament on fire. First, Adolf Hitler did it by burning down the Reichstag building. The same day, she was violently occupied, robbed, and then set on fire the Serbian state television building. The estimated damage was $20 million. Police officers who guarded the most state institutions in Serbia, parliament and government were humiliated on that day, shamarans, removed in their underwear and disarmed. Violently occupied the Old Town Police Station building from which more than 300 weapons were stolen, among other things; there were more than a hundred automatic rifles, and some of these pipes were later committed by some of the murders in Serbia. What has the public prosecutor's office done about these crimes that were directly directed towards a violent change in the constitutional order in Serbia? The D.A. didn't do anything. The next case I'm going to talk about is robbery privatisation. The entire Serbian economy has been destroyed and bought by organised crime. It was mainly bought by mobsters created by Slobodan Milosevic's regime, which had already changed to the cover of the Zoran Djindjic regime on October 5th. Serbian companies have been buying phantom companies from Virgin Islands, Marshall Islands for years and who knows where. They are brought, indeed and fictitiously, into sacks of millions of euros. It is clear that it is money that has been robbed by Serbian citizens. However, no one questions how the money was exported from Serbia and how it was earned. I'll only mention three cases of privatisation. The first is the privatisation of a modern-day hardware store that was sold in that scandalous privatisation for $20m. What is the privatisation of the best telling data that has recently appeared in the media that the owner of the hardware plant is now part of the hardware store, which does not even represent the 20th part of its property, the Smederevo Fubola Club and the football club stadium, selling for 35m euros. The next example is the sale of sugarcane. Serbian citizens know that three of the largest sugar candies have been sold for three euros. Two years later, memoirs were published in which the Deputy Prime Minister who made the sale claimed that only one sugarcane had half a product at the moment of sale in reserves, raw materials, as it is already said, worth 47m euros. The D.A. hasn't responded yet. The third case is the latest case reported in the media – the sale of the building CK, Business Centre "Usje". The competition, which was announced, was won by an investor who promised to tear down that building and build a business space of 20,000 square metres. Meanwhile, several owners, several investors, are no longer fully aware of who is building the business centre. The only thing that is certain is that citizens of Serbia, especially the citizens of Belgrade, can see, is that a business centre with a total area of 170,000 square meters has been built so far. Here I also want to mention the case of Mladjan Dinkic, which concerns money from Cyprus. You know that Mladjan Dinkic has travelled to Cyprus several times and has triumphantly returned telling Serbian citizens that he has found Milosevic's billions, he said. He mentioned a $10 billion amount. It's been a few years since. No one mentions those billions anymore. In my opinion, if there were "t" in Serbia from the prosecution, Mladjan Dinkic would be invited to an informative conversation with one question – whether these billions exist, if they exist, why they participate in their hiding, and if they do not exist to be called to account for public harassment. The next case is the case of Bozidar Djelic. You know that Bozidar Djelic has been moaning for about two years that there is nothing but one of the aunts' couches he sleeps on. To show how difficult his situation was, he even said that he was being saved by the fact that his aunt did not charge him rent. Suddenly, the man, overnight, earned 11m euros. It remains unclear whether he found these Euros in his aunt's couch, whether they fell off Mars or earned them in some way. I recall the case, perhaps even more drastic than these cases, which took place on Vidovdan 2001: a group of people, including top civil servants, who brutally abused their official position, kidnapped him from Central Prison in Belgrade by triple Serbian-Yugoslavija President Slobodan Milosevic, for his murder abroad in The Hague tribunal. The next case has been tied to newspapers in the past ten days. You witnessed that daily newspapers, especially during this pre-election campaign for the local election, were full of texts that were filled with hate speech and violence behind which this newly founded party stands. I'll read just a few headlines: "Seselj wants to kill Nikolic", "Seselj wants blood", "We want order, not war", "Radicals wants war", "Kill, slaughter." The D.A. didn't react. If there is an incentive to violence, if there is a hate speech that is contrary to both the law and the Constitution, and this was the case, the prosecutor was obliged to react, a team that has been established to suspect that this hate speech directly interfered with the defence of Serbian citizen Vojislav Seselj, the president of the SRS, who is neither guilty nor liable, as you know, for six years in The Hague tribunal's prison. The last crime case the D.A. didn't react to happened in this building. In this building, in the National Assembly, heavy theft took place in the highest legislative body in the state of Serbia. The chairman of the Administrative Board, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, has estranged 160 official documents, 160 documents from MPs. The case of theft has an additional, specific weight if the reasons why the theft was made are given in mind, and has been committed to the kidnapping of 20 parliamentary mandates and to end the electoral will of Serbian citizens. So it's a serious crime to brutally end the Constitution. As you can see, however, the public prosecutor has not yet responded. The public prosecutor is not responding, despite the fact that the chairman of the Administrative Board has publicly admitted that he has committed the crime, that he has committed the theft. I quote his statement from the "Politici" interview on September 12th – on the question of journalists: "So you've removed those resignations," he says, chairman of the Administrative Committee, "Yes, I've removed them." Most of these crimes, in fact, all these crimes I've been talking about aren't out of date. So the D.A.'s office has a legal basis to respond to them. She won't do it. For what? Because they would question not only their work but their lives. How can the public prosecutor's office handle these crimes if a clear and brutal message is sent from the Serbian Parliament – criminal acts are allowed if they are politically justified, if they are in the role of the ruling coalition, the ruling parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7065	National MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plassic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets the floor under Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7066	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, I would like to thank you for your word, I would like to speak of the breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. I believe that every time false or rude slanders are brought out in the Assembly, it is in some way a violation of its dignity, but also a violation of the dignity of the citizens of Serbia who follow carry these congregations. Dear colleagues and colleagues, for a while I was not in the Assembly, and I expected, it is my real expectation in life and in politics, that parliamentary democracy in Serbia is being promoted and that we are all, in some ways, grown from some of the limits we had previously. Unfortunately, by coming to the congregation, I see that things have not changed and that there is one way out for a congregation speaker, to take advantage of the time we have to express our views on the free subject. The free topic in this case has been – how one MP imagines crime and what he thinks he can commit. I warn you that the next time you mention the G17 Plus party and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mladjan Dinkic, you have in mind that you should always tell the truth; we can react to the truth, and above all, the truth you consider to be a crime can be reported to the prosecution. It is your duty, both as citizens and as political actors in this country, to report everything you consider to be a crime, if you have evidence. If there is evidence of that, of course the prosecution will launch an appropriate investigation. As far as I'm aware, no such investigations have been conducted so far. If so, Mladjan Dinkic, as a responsible citizen of this country, responded to calls, unlike many others in this country. He responded to the calls and received many judicial disputes that he had been instigating because of the slanders he had received. That's what we'll do in the future. Please weigh your words carefully every time, because all you've said here is slander. Besides, I expect you to be a little more inventive, because that Cypriot money, the National Savings Bank, and what you won't think of is so old, it really doesn't interest anyone else in this country anymore. So, I would ask you now to talk about how we will continue to develop Serbia, as the party G17 plus did, and Mladjan Dinkic, when she made sure that the dinar was stable, then when she made sure that the foreign reserves were stable, when she reformed the banking system so that at the moment when the global economic crisis was our citizens and their savings stakes were stable and safe. So that's what we can talk about, and those insinuations about intrusions, arson and so on... I will remind you, dear colleagues, that in 2000, a revolution occurred, that on October 5, 2000, a group did not stand up, a handful of people walking the streets and blocking traffic, but the whole of Serbia stood up. You could've watched that two nights ago on TV... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. ) Simply, that day things changed and that day Serbia moved forward. You stayed there somewhere behind, and that fact won't change anything, and that's what the citizens of Serbia told you in the last elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7067	National MP Dusan Maric, with the right to reply, is based on Article 101.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7068	Dear People's MPs, I was first surprised by this passion and I asked myself the question of how so much heat, but then I remembered, when it came to billions of people, it could have been even more intense. The first question – is there really anyone in this room in Serbia who has not heard at least ten times the statements of Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic that he has found the money Slobodan Milosevic brought to Cyprus? If you find me an MP who'll come out for this pay phone and say it's not true that he said it, I'll apologize. The next thing you know, the D.A. hasn't initiated a trial, he hasn't launched an investigation. Well, I've been talking here for ten minutes about the fact that it's inadmissible for serious crimes to be committed in this country, which are notorious facts, which all Serbian citizens know, and that the public prosecutor is doing nothing about it! Next thing you know, the money's out of date. You used it, take a stenogram and you see, you said – that money is obsolete, it happened a long time ago. Convince you Serbian citizens that these two billion, five billion or ten billion, mentioned, that they are obsolete and that they no longer mean anything to them. Next thing you know, I'm gonna look back... In fact, I'm just going to repeat what you said, quote: "insinuations about the arson of the Assembly". The citizens of Serbia should only remember October 5th, to remember the picture that has been visited around the world: the assembly, the national parliament, the national assembly of the Serbian state, the black cloud of smoke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7069	National MP, it's just a stenogram, it's not about building the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so I'm asking for some precision. People's MPs Vjerica Radeta and Vitomir Plužarevic earn. I listen very carefully to every MP. The right to reply has been given poor interpretations of words, as has been the violation of the Rules of Procedure sought for interpretation of words. And if the MP at the end of his line has spoken an obvious falsehood, I just want to get it into a stenogram and remind you to watch what we're saying at the speaker of the National Assembly. It was a building of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. People's MPs still earn, I'd say it's put into the stenogram, that you don't interrupt me while I help the MP to keep his presentation in the stenogram without making any sense. People's MP Milorad Krstin wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7070	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a distinguished colleague from G17, I have repeatedly pointed to an alarming state in Serbia's agriculture. That's what I pointed out, as a People's MP, in 2005 and 2006. You remember well, then the minister was Ivana Dulic-Markovic. Of the non-refundable loans, which were then around 400, 182, according to the report, was accidentally spent, in fact, by the current agriculture minister, Mr Dragin. Unintentional was spent and no one was responsible for it. I hope so. I've asked a parliamentary question twelve times since that year 2005. The Agricultural Development Fund has been allocated to the 180m dinar irrigation system, with three entities. We MPs of the SRS asked the Committee to deliver the names and names of the three subjects they received. I didn't get them until today. I asked the Secretary of Parliament why I did not receive an answer as an MP to the parliamentary question, which I have the right to do; he simply replied that Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic would not answer. I'm not being held accountable. It's not just that 180 million, as I said, for irrigation systems, that they've got three entities per 60 million. It's five years old, the grace period is a year, and there's four years left; when you divide that 60 million into that one subject of three, they're left to pay back 15 million a year. I'm really interested in how strong you are when they can pay $15 million a year, and they needed that $60 million to get it. We asked for how many, according to the districts, and which registered agricultural holdings received short-term loans, especially long-term loans and particularly grants. Never members of the Serbian Radical Party's committee have been answered. We didn't get them orally or in writing, and you laugh, but you, especially during the three years, your minister destroyed agriculture... (President: National MP, it's three minutes, you didn't say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured. ) Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7071	There's no breach of Article 104. So, you had to say what the injury to any of the points of view of Article 104 consisted of. If you compare your exposure, you'll see that there's no injury to that member. Please, if you are calling for an injury, explain what is the violation of the members of the Rules of Procedure you are referring to. National MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plassic wants to talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure, so MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7072	Thank you, I appeal, of course, to Article 104 — a violation of dignity. As I explained a little bit, notorious untruths and completely wrong interpretations of certain truths have been made. This concludes my discussion, and I hope to make a contribution to continuing the work of this House today. I really can't get over what the gentleman was talking about, because it's all about complete untruths or misinformation and incomplete information or free interpretation of what's really been going on. First of all, I'm talking about a period of three, four, five years ago, I have to say that since the fall of 2006, since October 2006, Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic has not been Minister of Agriculture. So we can talk about that period before 2006. I have one more thing to say. We've discussed this more than once here, and that's why I asked you for a moment not to go back to the discussions we had five or ten years ago. But here, for a moment we'll be back, for the two more minutes I have, for that debate, and I'm not going back to it. I really want Serbia to move forward and talk about what has yet to happen in Serbia, but, behold, you sometimes pull us back. What happened when Mrs Dulic-Markovic was Minister of Agriculture? If you remember, then there was a triple budget for agriculture and it was really a major shift for agriculture and farmers. It is true, the agriculture budget was tripled in 2004. At that time, for the first time, a large number of loans were granted to encourage agricultural production for producers. What was going on with those loans? Credits are divided according to maximum transparent procedure. I'm telling you again that I'm not an agricultural expert, but by force, I had to be directed to it. I will remind you here that at the time, the SRS and I were discussing it and that we agreed on it, your representative, or the Chairman of the Agriculture Committee, that the Committee on Agriculture had control and insight into these documents, that the Committee's committee had gone to the Ministry and could have obtained that documentation. You can say now because you had a fight with each other, so you don't know who's talking anymore. That's what happened. The Committee committee had insight into these loans. Credits are shared by transparent procedures. Moreover, huge progress has been made in adapting our agriculture to European market requirements. In a year, two, three or five, I hope no more, Serbia will be in the EU, and our agricultural producers must be ready for the match. That's what Mrs Dulic-Markovic was doing most seriously, as a minister of agriculture. As a security guard to those who are not ready to follow this competition, cruelly, we have to admit, but that's how we are part of it, they have provided funds for non-commercial agricultural households to help the most vulnerable and the poorest. Those are really good concepts. A strategy for the development of agriculture was also adopted, for the first time in this country. I think I've said enough and there's no need for any further thought about this. Whatever, whatever you remember next, I won't answer that again.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7073	National MPs, MP Milorad Krstin did not harm Article 104 in his presentation, he has the right to present information as he sees them. He abused the Rules of Procedure because he did not behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but it was until the chairman said whether or not he was acting accordingly. And you have called on Article 104 to provide counterarguments on a subject that has nothing to do with either article 104 or during the session. National MP Dusan Maric wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7074	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since my predecessor insisted on the shortest discussions so she wouldn't be late in Europe, and she broke the Rules of Procedure both times, saying three and a half minutes, I'll only take a minute. I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because I believe that Mrs Comic did so insisting that I misstated the name of the institution, the assembly that was burned and that, in some ways, I misinformed the public. I went out to say that the Federal Assembly was burned, that's when it was called the Federal Assembly. The Allied congregation, and then and now, was a people's congregation; and in the Allied and in this people's congregation are now the messengers of the people, the representatives of the people. I was talking, and Mrs. Comic couldn't possibly know, when I said the National Assembly, if I meant a little letter or a big letter. What's now called the House of the National Assembly is the National Assembly, this is also the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7075	People's MPs, the status of MPs only have MPs from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in whichever building they sit. In the Federal Assembly, in the SRJ Assembly, which had two homes, the Greater Republic and the Greater Citizens, MPs sat down. I ask you at least not to mix these basic things with a pay phone, because it's really a demeaning building where we sit, the course of the National Assembly session and everything we all stand for, and that's the respect of the institution where we sit. The People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta casts - "what we stand for". To have knowledge of the debate in this congregation. The national ambassador says it is said in Serbian - for what. It's more often said in Vojvodina - about what. I apologize, it's localism and there you're absolutely right. I don't have the right to localism, but when you live in Vojvodina for so many years then localism gets in your way. I apologize to everyone, it's said, for what we stand for, and in Vojvodina, it's said, for what. So, MPs at the SRJ Assembly, and here are the MPs. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Zeljko Tomic. He gets a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7076	The President-in-Office, respected presidency, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I am reporting by members of 225 and 226 and I am taking the opportunity at our session, as well as at some previous, present Minister Ms. Snezana Malovic. I'm reporting for the case of a Serbian citizen who has been charged with physical harassment against another person in the United States. I ask the present minister, and I have only five questions, which is why Mr. Miladin Kovacevic was detained and taken from the Tower to Belgrade, to Central Prison? Why is he in central prison in Belgrade under restrictive treatment, why is he not allowed to read? Question three, why isn't he defending himself from freedom? Why isn't the lawyer responsible for an emergency detention request? In what way are Serbian citizens' rights guaranteed and respected, and can you as a minister guarantee that you will respect the Constitution and the law of the Serbian state and that you will not allow the Serbian citizen Mr. Miladin Kovacevic to be extradited to the United States? That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7077	People's MP Milorad Krstin wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a colleague from G17 hurts the truth, so she had to come out. It seems she is not so interested in explaining to the people and the citizens of Serbia where that money went. I again, for the sake of Serbian citizens, because of those farmers, couples, peasants, I repeat -- the agriculture ministry has done an analysis on agriculture in Serbia, where it is said: out of the 334 landowners who received grants in 2006, even in 182 the funds were unintendedly spent. This is an analysis by the Ministry of Agriculture. I'm sorry, I didn't say I was answering by article 104. This isn't made up by Milorad Krstin, this is an analysis by the Ministry of Agriculture. I am convinced that, while these meetings continue, my parliamentary questions regarding these grants, which are shared by the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. This government... will continue to be shared with those closer to G17 and DS. That's obvious. He says you're from the Agriculture Committee in the districts. Yeah, we got it, but only in numbers. Mediterranean County - short-term loans 156, long-term loans 228, non-refundable loans 98. That's all the answer we've been trying literally for two years, since 2005 and 2006, to get those answers. Here's how you answered us. We're asking to give us a name, a last name, a subject, who's got, how much he's got. We know that there will never be justice as far as this division is concerned, for he who is in power, he who shares it with his own. But when it comes to G17, then you're in first place. Unfortunately, this is how it's always gonna be when you're in charge, and poor farmers and peasants are gonna suffer this, and those who need every penny. Here, you haven't begun to share subsidies for registered agricultural holdings yet. You promised. Budget's over. It's 13. 11, you haven't started sharing yet, and I'd like it to be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7079	There's no breach of Article 104. Both MPs interpreted the facts as saying they were talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word of the messenger of the people is Mirko Chikiriz. After him is the messenger of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7080	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that after the adoption of the Anti-Corruption Act, after the principled review of the law on the establishment of courts, the judicial network and judges, this is one of the most important laws, which will round this continent in order to become a legal and stable state. For us from the SPO, one of the greatest achievements of the proposed law on the public prosecutor's office and the State Council of Prosecutors is that people from the profession are left to choose, that is, to propose those who will be headed by the prosecution and that public prosecutors are forbidden to be members of political parties, and that they act politically. We believe that what marked our newer history, I mean the post-World War II period, will mark a kind of discontinuity with what we had in Serbia for decades. I think it was necessary to say, because of all the citizens who have suffered a number of injustices precisely because of the political colour of the prosecution, because they have not undertaken prosecution for the perpetrators of serious crimes, and on the other hand they have prosecuted their inexperiences politically, that, of course, the law on courts prohibits the interruption of extraordinary or so on. ad hoc, revolutionary courts. But we had them in recent Serbian history. After the entrance of the Red Army and the Partisans to Belgrade, thousands of Belgrade citizens, teachers, professors at universities, priests, that main social class, were, by way of court, revolutionary justice, deprived of life. Later they were formed, formally, by state prosecutors who, above all, were political prosecutors of the Communist Party. They took away property from people, deprived them of their lives, civil rights, and only cared for their inner enemy. As a political party that is facing our tradition and that cares for both those behind us and those who come after us and who is facing the past and the future, we believe it is necessary to say that all political parties should never allow such a thing to happen in Serbia again. It was in the multi-party Kingdom of Political Disputes, one murder occurred in the Federal Assembly, when the Radical, Punisha Racic, killed one Croatian MP, but never happened to be mass executions based on political differences. With the rebuilding of the multiparty system, we had the momentum, we had something that was similar. But I will remind you of the latest event – when, after the SRS rally following police torture, Ranko Panic passed away, the SPO first asked for a thorough and serious state investigation and for all those who contributed to the loss of life to justice. Live and seen, the SPO will insist on that. Of course, not because he's a member or not a member of our political party. The previous exhibitions show that everyone scratches where it it itches, but that the general principle, the general principle that human life is the highest value and that we should all stand in the protection of human life, has not been a mark of political parties' behaviour for the last 18 years. I remind you that during the most difficult political murders in Serbia's recent history, the scenarios were identical. First the victim was a media lyncher, then a media device was hired to prepare a murder to justify the murder. The same perpetrators were always involved, the same system and, in the end, the prosecutors, instead of prosecuted the perpetrators of these crimes, covered up those crimes. At that time, the injured had to pursue criminals in private lawsuits and seek justice. I think it was the obligation of all political parties, regardless of political differences, to insist on what the SPO insists on, as far as Ranko Panic is concerned. We're witnessing that Bill Clinton, as president of the United States, had to appear in front of the prosecution, that all relevant media were monitoring it and that he had to give answers to the affair with Monica Levinski. We are aware that this is the case in developed democracies; a Nixon, under public pressure, on suspicion that he was involved in something illegal, had to resign. It is the desire of the Serbian Movement to restore tomorrow's prosecutor, and this law largely allows him to do so, because it allows him independence, impartiality, independence, call and investigate and initiate proceedings against all, whether they are in the state's office or not. In particular, the burden and responsibility of war crimes prosecutors and the prosecution of organised crime are high. Of course, both perform a difficult and socially responsible task. Of course it is extremely unpopular for war crimes to accuse its countrymen, but definitely Serbia must do what is up to it, Serbia must make that clear distinction between crime and what is not. Therefore, the SPO believes that the prosecution should continue to do its job. Yesterday I heard a statement from the minister of justice that he was preparing a law on court experts and that he would be in the assembly procedure next year. That's good, because in this area we have an absolutely outdated law, one law that allows anyone who has a degree to just file part of the paperwork and that the Justice Department declares him an expert, and the abuses in that area are large and can be talked about for days. When Professor Vodnelic, a professor of crime, told us students that a public prosecutor could find out about the perpetrators of the crime and the crime from the newspapers, we laughed, but here we witnessed that the newspaper was flooded every day... I mean, a significant part of the space takes up what's called the black section, and in many cases prosecutors don't really act. I think that by adopting these laws, there should be a period behind us when prosecutors have kept certain cases in drawers, when prosecutors simply need to decide whether to initiate the procedure or to let a subsidiary prosecutor conduct the appropriate procedure in his name, with suspicion that someone committed the crime. Therefore, the SPO will vote in favour of this law and we, without any euphoria, expect, of course, with everything that needs to be done in other areas, to apply this law to results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7081	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Malovic, you are truly a great optimist if you truly mean what you've been telling us here for a few days. If you are convinced that after the adoption and application of these laws, in a year and a few days, something revolutionary will change in the state of Serbia in the area of justice, make sure you are wrong. The time will, of course, show, and we warn you (what we have done before) that you are again passing laws that cannot be applied. You're passing laws that, from the point of view of your position, I don't mean your own, I mean your party and the ruling majority, right now they seem favourable, but believe me, it's not exactly like that. Mrs. Malovic, you are, if I am not mistaken, the fourth DOS minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia. According to what you're talking about these bill proposals, it is concluded that you think that your former boss Vladan Batic was a bad minister, that Zoran Stojkovic was a bad minister, probably about him and now you think that the deputy president of your party, Dusan Petrovic, was a bad minister. Based on the way you speak, as well as fellow MPs who say they will support these laws, such an impression is gained. I remind you, Madam Minister, there's a lot you could have done for these other years. I'm not thinking about you personally again, I'm thinking about the Department of Justice who's been in the hands of DOS representatives for eight years. I also remind you, say, that you here speak as if these laws were going to establish courts, to establish prosecutors, to establish a legal system, as if nothing had happened before. You're talking about some discontinuity. You say that after these laws have been passed in Serbia, nothing will be the same again, etc. I remind you that Rade Terzic, I think, was your district attorney, that I am now not going back to the crime story that this man is being prosecuted for. So it's no problem, Madam Minister, and dear fellow MPs, in laws, we've had laws so far. The problem is with the selection of personnel, the problem is with party personnel at this high and should be independent functions. It hasn't been since 2008. Of course, there are a large number of people in the prosecution, deputy public prosecutors above all, who are honorable, honest, professional people, who try to be independent, as are a large number of judges who are honorable, honest and professional, but unfortunately, those who cheer and dress with the Serbian judiciary, they are the ones you are asking. You've been experimenting with the prosecution. You remember those famous prosecutors, i.e. the appointment of prosecutors by the Government of the Republic of Serbia; then you said they were independent, then you praised it as an epochal, best possible solution on the globe; then you were convinced that the prosecutor could be independent in his work and that he was elected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We warned you then to make drastic mistakes, but it is obviously not worth speaking to you. Here's a colleague said -- of course, I don't want to mention the name because I don't want to cause replicas, I want to express the views of the SRS, but I have to remind you of what was heard earlier -- that these bill proposals are so good that they, as far as possible, are now quoting this, correcting the Constitution. I've heard a lot of things, but this is something to hear from a man who's a graduate lawyer, that the laws that amend the Constitution are going to be passed here, it's really amazing. You also said yesterday one sentence concerning the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so you later corrected yourself and said you didn't think so, that you advocated the respect of the Constitution, etc., and that's fine, but somehow it seems to me that you said yesterday that all the solutions in the Constitution are not good, and that today a colleague from your party is saying that these laws will fix the Constitution. The colleague said that these bills, I'm talking about the public prosecutor's law and the State's Council of Prosecutors law, were not worked by anyone from the Assembly, no one from the government, that these bills were made by the Prosecutors' Association. We don't think that's good, if that's the case, because the government should propose laws to the National Assembly, that's what the Constitution says, it's the government's obligation. People's MPs are discussing bill proposals, submitting amendments, trying, of course, from the point of view of their party's ideologies (relevant to those who have ideology) and in the interest of all Serbian citizens, to warn government representatives that they will eventually accept any amendments to the bill. But what that colleague said wasn't true. Here, we've been able to read in written media every day the headlines of how various judicial and prosecutorial associations, the Society of Judges, etc. raises the voice precisely because of this set of law in the area of justice. Of course, our opinion, the opinion of the Serbian Radical Party on the existence of such associations is not the subject of today's debate, but certainly the theme is that these people perform these functions and warn you in advance exactly what Serbian Radical Party MPs are warning you about - that you will bring chaos into the area of justice by these laws. We're wondering what about those judges who aren't members of those associations, who aren't members of the Judges' Society, who do their job seriously, responsibly. They are not allowed in any media to give their opinion because you threaten them with lustration. What you're predicting for one of these laws is just a lustration in the area of justice. Years ago, eight years ago, as you threatened lustration, you failed to completely clean up the courts and sue some of the people you don't like and you didn't bring enough of your own into the courts and in the prosecution; then you realized that through this law you would put all the judges and prosecutors in a position to choose them again or you wouldn't choose them. Now I'm wondering what's going on with all the items that are current, which are interested in the government or parts of the ruling coalition, what's happening now with these items? What is it, and do you think there is, an impact precisely on the threat of these laws to the work of courts and on the work of public prosecutors? We know it exists and it's obvious, but we'd like you to tell us. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, I don't know, we read in some newspaper that one of the judicial associations is announcing that they won't apply these laws. Of course, we don't support such a thing, but here are fellow MPs who will vote for this law, raise their vote; they said it was against the law, against the constitution, which it certainly is. I remind you that we from the Serbian Radical Party in 2000, 2001 and 2002, in fact until the day of today, were reminded of the time when you expelled from the courts for violations of the judges that applied the law. The explanation was literally that someone was disposing of judicial functions because he applied the law. It was the Information Act. But it doesn't matter what law it was, so, judges, and it's a message to those who now say they won't apply these laws, judges have to judge by law and not judge by law. The laws are being tried by MPs, representatives of the citizens. That's why we're trying to draw your attention to some things that, if you don't accept now, be sure, talk again in a year, or when this deadline is over when these laws are announced. Because, I remind you, this is the third time we've had an announcement of the existence of appeals courts, a cassation court. I was also talking the other day about the two courts in Serbia being collapsed, that the citizens did not know who to appeal to, that judges were also publicly advertised, it was not known who the second-degree court was for some case. So it will happen again if you do not accept suggestions from Serbian Radical Party MPs. You have seen from all our debates that we have prepared these topics very seriously, but here to remind you, Mrs. Malovic, we have the Public Prosecutor's Law. Imagine, it was delivered on November 8, 2001, so you brought it in, and it was repaired in 2002, and it was once again repaired in 2003. In that law, believe it or not, Article 70 regulates... Not to read the whole article, not to waste my time, but the title above that article is especially about the unconscious and unprofessional performance of duty. So, the 4,300 items that are obsolete, which you spoke about in the media and here, are not obsolete because we didn't have legislation. Here, Article 70. The public prosecutor's law has just regulated that part and the prosecutor's relationship to the criminal cases they've been working on. So it wasn't the law, as it isn't now, but it is to those who apply the law. Mrs. Malovic, I will spend a little more time mentioning your recent boss, special prosecutor for war crimes, Mr. Vukcevic. I remind you, I talked about it a few months ago; and you, Mrs. Malovic, since you sat with him and often walked up that hallway in the Special Prosecutor's Office, certainly saw those pictures on the wall, that Vukcevic took pictures with Mesic, with Karl del Ponte; so Boris Tadic and Karl del Ponte... Full, respected Serbian citizens, walls in the special prosecutor's office for the war crimes of these images. Why do I mention those pictures? Because no one has ever answered the question which is the legal basis used by the Special Prosecutor's Office that so far, as you like to say, has prosecuted the perpetrators of war crimes committed against Serbs in the territory of the current Republic of Croatia. Vukcevic is full of fine stories about co-operation with the Croatian prosecutor's office, with the cantonal prosecutor's office of BiH, and he is very zealously respected when he... He almost got a memo from some prosecutor from the cantonal prosecutor's office in Tuzla, and I know that Mrs. Mirsada's name was not remembered; she ordered him to extend the investigation and start a criminal case against some other people in some cases that I'm not going to bring up here on purpose, I'll say later, she'll know what it is, but I'll say why I don't want to mention it. He, therefore, very zealously went out to meet this Mrs. Mirsadi, quickly and better expanded the investigation. And in the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, in the Special Prosecutor's Office, you should know that, there is not a single case against the perpetrator, whether the N.N., whether by name and last name, for crimes of war crimes against Serbs on the territory of the former Croatia. I also remind you of the exchanges involving the perpetrators of crimes that also refer to war crimes and I ask the question. The question concerns this special prosecutor's office, and you seem kind of a suitable person to answer all these questions because you've worked in that prosecution recently. It was a group of people against whom war crimes proceedings were conducted, their exchange took place. We have never known in Serbia, nor have the Special Prosecutor's Office informed us of this, whether the Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes has done anything to continue proceedings against these people in the Croatian courts, because Serbia has continued proceedings against those accused of war crimes. When it comes to Vladimir Vukcevic, who is otherwise known for having fully tribunaled the court, or the war crimes prosecutor's office in Serbia... How did he carry out the tribunal? By the war crimes prosecutor's office, the Special Prosecutor's Office, is in full compliance with the rules and rules on the work of the UN tribunal. First of all, procedures are being conducted here in parallel with proceedings in The Hague tribunal, and procedures that go according to the charges against Vojislav Seselj in one part, and in the good part. Of course, that's why I don't want to mention any of the cases, because I'm not one of those who was willing to co-operate with The Hague's prosecution, that Vojislav Seselj is killed in The Hague. I am among those who want freedom for Vojislav Seselj, who want Vojislav Seselj in Serbia and, of course, we are convinced that it will happen soon. Why did I mention parallel processes? In these processes you have protected witnesses, who are protected witnesses in the UN tribunal, who are protected here for the crimes of the most serious crimes. I'm convinced that you, Mrs. Malovic, know the name and last name I'm talking about right now, but I'm still very careful, I'm certainly not going to go out with some fake stenogram to get my president killed in The Hague. That's why I take great care of it, but, Mrs. Malovic, you as a minister, and your ministry, since you still have a lot of responsibilities when it comes to the prosecution, not you personally, but someone who becomes a minister, as a member of the State Council of Prosecutors, etc. So, there's still no speech about the prosecution's independence, nor when these laws will be, if they are, applied, but as Ministry, you should take care of how the Special Prosecutor's Office and the Special Court of War Crimes work; how false witnesses are recruited there, how these false witnesses are protected, and they have nicknames in front of the names "Blood," or they themselves were making statements that they killed in certain locations, talking about how many people they killed, how many people they killed in a monstrous way. These are now your protected gentlemen, on all matters. That's not possible by the laws, the kind of criminal you've brought, but obviously it doesn't matter to you. Now a little further on Vladimir Vukcevic, in order to bring Serbia's citizens closer to the kind of prosecutor he should be to advance in the DOS government in Serbia. Look how much I have on this Vladimir Vukčević, but now I'm going to use only one case, one KT object. In short, I will express how Vladimir Vukcevic does it and what he recommended for the special prosecutor. It's an object of KT 1505/98. The fourth municipal public prosecutor's office resigned on 27 November 1998, ending ten years these days, the Belgrade District Public Prosecutor's Office for damages of more than 30,000,000 dinars, i.e. between 30,000,000 and 36,000,000 dinars. From these documents... Let me just tell you that this case was walking: it was with the deputies; in 1998, the case was passed from KT mark to KTR, without any procedural action in the meantime. Prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic then held the case for more than six and a half years in his drawer, i.e. from 22 December 1998 to 28 March 2005. It's a case involving Telekom Srbija. Vukcevic asked Telekom Srbija AD, the Directorate for Residential Clients, for data on the damage suffered by a letter dated 17 June 1999, and then intervened on 19 December 2000, although in the case files he had a letter from Telekom Srbija AD, Directorate for Residential Clients, number 33667/1 since 8 October 1998. So he was fully conscious and deliberately delaying the procedure. This Vladimir Vukcevic has done nothing on this case, or has not prosecuted the perpetrators for years and thus has given them great material benefit. That's how he committed the crime. Of course, if someone provides a huge material benefit, a logical question arises where he is in what is popular in your circles. These documents show that, following a request made by a gentleman, he demanded to make an insight into the case files of KTR 2810/98, Goran Marjanovic, the deputy district attorney, suspended prosecution because of the ageing. On 28 May 2007, he informed the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and gave this gentleman insight into the entire file, but without the envelope of the file. Later, this gentleman was able to reach the cover of the file, so the cover of the file shows how this object was walked. First the processor was Vukcevic, then Vukcevic was on the second cover again, and then Vukcevic was crossed, and then, if it was Goran Marjanovic, it was not quite readable, then Grubovic, then Grubovic again. Why Grubovic? Well, in the end, as the pearl of the prosecution's work, the response of the public prosecutor's office in Belgrade, KTR No. 2092/08 since 17 June 2008, it is seen that as the only one to blame for being obsolete in this case, Mr. Bozidar Grubovic, who was the deputy district attorney, but who, meanwhile, left the prosecution. He had, from these six and a half years ago, the subject was from March 28th 2005 to February 26th 2007. So, Vladimir Vukcevic, who was obviously planned for that function that no decent Serb would accept, would especially not work the way Vukcevic does, had to be protected. And then there was the victim, who would be declared responsible for this, one of the objects led by Vukcevic, in the ageing phase. Question for you, Madam Minister: was the law the reason we don't have a state prosecutor? How long has Mr. Radovanović been in V.D. Is there any limit, do we even have a state prosecutor now? We claim we don't. So, Madam Minister, the laws, as you can see, were not an obstacle for the judiciary in Serbia to function. What you're doing now with these laws, it's an obstacle, it's a sword over your head to all the judges and prosecutors. The general fear is between judges and prosecutors; people don't know what to do with cases. In the MP group and strangers, people call us, dozens of people every day. Of course, we can't mention their names, not to mention any courts or prosecutors, because if we said so, they would immediately come under the influence of these laws, these lustrations, both in courts and in the prosecutions. Mrs. Malovic, you'll make a papaziania. Let the judges and prosecutors do their job, let them do it on their own, do not interfere with the executive authorities in their work. Tell your tycoons not to interfere with their work, so you'll see, that small number of corrupt judges and prosecutors will be removed, a large number of honest and honest ones who are in the shadow of those you run from the executive and your tycoons.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7083	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word and before the conclusion of the joint principled search, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. ( b) Does he want the word of the Proposer’s representative? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7084	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are ultimately discussing a package of judicial laws discussed for the previous two days. Once again, I want to thank you for the constructive debate that took place in this House. As for these laws that came on the agenda today, which are the draft public prosecutor's law and the bill on the State Council of Prosecutors, I have to say that the Ministry of Justice had the least to do here. That doesn't mean that the Justice Department hasn't discussed the entire legal text in detail, I mean that she was working on the law, as I said in this morning's presentation, a working group composed of people from the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and the Association of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Public Prosecutors. These are the people who will apply this law in practice, who know what they need and what the shortcomings are and what will contribute to the improvement and efficiency of their work. In cooperation with them, we've made some changes, and you've come up with exactly that kind of proposal. These are the laws I've advocated to limit the executive authority. Someone would resent it, someone would commend it, but it was my attitude. Of course, it was consistently respected by the Constitution and all those provisions that were not sufficiently elaborated by the Constitution, which is logical, given that this is the general and highest legal act in one country, and even in our own, we tried to specify this bill. Of course, the National Strategy for Justice Reform adopted in 2006 was also respected. I am fully convinced, and I tried this in this morning's presentation to convince you, and I will also do so during the debate on amendments, that these laws will significantly increase the efficiency of public prosecutors in Serbia, especially for the reasons that the public prosecutor's concentration will take place. There are not a small number of public prosecutors in which there is one deputy or one public prosecutor. As I said earlier, it seems to me that such prosecutions cannot bring about valid judicial practices. Many of the provisions in these draft laws are of principle character and will be elaborated by sublaws, primarily by the Public Prosecutors' Administration Regulations and sublegal acts, which will be brought by the State's Major Prosecutors, as regards the criteria for choice, promotion, resolution and disciplinary responsibility. These laws have tried to comply fully with the hierarchy that must exist in the public prosecutor's office and that the prosecutor's organisation is being designated as comprehensive, since we are all aware that there are special prosecutors who were in some way parallel and could not be seen that they were entirely within the prosecutor's organisation. This law will allow us to have a comprehensive prosecutorial organisation in Serbia and the head of the prosecutor's organisation will certainly be the Republic Public Prosecutor. We recently passed a package of anti-corruption laws here. Of course, these laws can't be fully applied unless we have a valid public prosecutor's office, and, as I said, I'm sure by adopting these laws, we're going to contribute to that. Process laws will be proposed next year. The next month, we will have a debate on the Code of Criminal Procedure, which in previous years has been a lot of controversy, but we will leave it for the next session of parliament. The justice ministry is preparing a draft law on the judicial academy to train both future judges and future deputies, and full contribution to professional associations. I'd like to thank you again. I also thank you for all the amendments that have been tabled; this suggests that all MPs have discussed in detail all the provisions contained in this bill. As I said at the previous session, the Justice Ministry will discuss them in detail and anything that contributes to better texts of the law, better efficiency, better regulation of the judicial authorities in Serbia, the justice ministry will have no problem accepting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7085	I am concluding a principled investigation into the draft public prosecutor's law and the draft law on the State Council of Prosecutors. I am informing the Assembly that, under Article 85 of Section 5, we will be working today after 1800 hours. I'm setting a break by 3:30. This afternoon's session will begin with a debate on the public procurement bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7086	Dear Members of Parliament, before we continue to work on the 8th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Public Procurement, I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the meetings to be attended by Dr Slobodan Ilic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Bogotincevic Zhivana, adviser at the ministry, minister. I welcome them. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC PROGRAMME (principles) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS MP group – one hour, nine minutes and 36 seconds; MP group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group Forward Serbia – 24 minutes; MP group SPS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; MEP group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and MEP group of PUPS – six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorized them to represent the SPS - JS – Dejan Radenković, DSS – Milan Lapčević and LDP – Vesna Pesic. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) Did the MPs Slobodan Maras and Mladen Grujic, who, at the meeting of the Finance Committee, issue an opinion on the bill, want to explain their opinions? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Mrs. Vesna Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7087	Dear guests from the Ministry, the Honorable President, as far as LDP is concerned, we will vote in favour of this innovative Public Procurement Act. I'd like to inform the public that we passed the first Public Procurement Act in 2002. I suppose it was not going to change and supplement because there were a lot of these illogicalities and a lot of instructions from the EU on how to fix this law, and then it was going to go to a new law, although it was essentially the same, and this was supposed to be the revised law that was passed in 2002. First, I would draw attention to why we feel that this law is very important and that it is almost fundamental. For at least a few reasons: the first reason is because in Serbia there is a very large public sector and since there are always orders from those who spend our money, the money of citizens, so that they are controlled to spend the funds. Of course, it should not be warned that when it comes to the budget of vast funds, surely over two billion euros, go to public procurement. It's some sort of assessment. Now imagine the possibility of saving and spending taxpayers' money effectively, if this process is very detailed. On the other hand, we need to reduce public spending. This is also a significant source where public spending can be reduced, not to damage citizens' needs, but rather to make these needs more efficient. So that's one of the main reasons why we find this law fundamental and very important. The second thing, from what I've said, means how much money is spent on purchases, how much is something that's so daily, it's clear that traditional corruption happens most often and most often. So, if we want to deal seriously with corruption, without the law on procurement and without applying control and all these complicated things that they write here, it's just not gonna be possible to deal with corruption. So that's why it's so important. Also, to remind our citizens that very often, when it comes to EU accession, there are only a few political interferences. We all know that some political interference is very large, say, the end of co-operation with The Hague tribunal or, frankly, the handover of Mladic and Goran Hadzic. It is true that this is a condition for us to move further towards the European Union, but there are some key institutional laws that are fundamental to Serbia's entry into the EU. This is one of those laws, which is absolutely a condition that we could take one step further, because there is also a fight against corruption, and also direct instructions on what to do when it comes to public procurement law. So, when it comes to Europe, we should not be fooled that there are only a few political conditions and that we are already there, but there is one huge institutional building, which is why I think that road is worth it to us. Without that pressure, we would probably never have taken care of these institutions, we would have made no order of this country unless there was a process of EU accession. Of course, I will call on exactly the latest EU report. To be precise, the European Commission assessed how Serbia acted in 2008. It's that famous report that we've been hearing very controversial rumors about, that it's favourable, that it's not favourable, we even had an incident at the European Integration Committee session today, which I would like to inform the other MPs about. We have a representative on that committee, where Minister Djelic came from two pages of the text and showed that everything is great and that it was very well assessed what Serbia was doing in 2008, because these are very systematic investigations that take place there. Of course, he showed in one false way that the EU has assessed Serbia's progress towards Europe, an institution by institution, a criterion by criterion. After that, there were some apologies on the subject. I just want you to know what the EU methodology is when it writes such reports and why it is possible that people from the government are lying to us when it comes to the success of Serbia in 2008. What is realistic and what we have analyzed in our party and when that report is looked at, the report says Serbia has stagnated and has not taken a step back, but not a step forward. I will show that the EU method is always such that for any area where it analyses what happened to us, it gives a single amount of compliments first, and then points to the real problems that we have in certain areas, when it comes to laws and individual institutions. I'll show you how it's possible then that ministers, as happened on this committee today, are manipulating such reports. Here, let's see what they say about public procurement. Chapter 4.1.6 - public procurement, this is the EU Commission's report: "There has been some progress in the area of public procurement. Transparency of the process that precedes the conclusion of the public procurement contract has been improved by setting up the internet portal, which has also led to lower costs, increasing competition and control, better communication among participants, obtaining the credibility of statistics, increasing awareness and better overall environment of public procurement." These are shared compliments, but all that is found in this report to be progress, that progress has been made, is actually about the expected progress if it is adopted and started with the application of this law. It is that the Public Procurement Authority has put in a portal and has gone to meet a law like this, but the obligation to use the portal comes into force only when this law is adopted. An increase in the transparency of public procurement, which boasts here, can only occur if such a law is passed and this law is implemented. Thus, it is obvious that such a pedagogy is that what is planned in advance is manifested as progress, and practically, in reality, there has been no progress. I will now read what a real assessment looks like (refers to the Public Procurement Act): "Institutions working in the field of public procurement, including the Public Procurement Administration and the Commission for the Protection of Providers' Rights, do not have enough space and human resources to work. Their operational independence has not been improved. Further efforts should be made to preserve, train and develop the public procurement system. The strategy for improving the public procurement system, which was adopted in June 2006, is still not applicable. The application of a public procurement system that should be non-discriminatory, which would work well, continues to negatively reflect the weaknesses of the internal audit system," means there is no internal audit, "the authority of the administration. The fact is that the state audit institution still does not function in full scope and that it is still high corruption. At all, Serbia still does not have a consistent, effective and fully independent system of public procurement. Further efforts need to be made through amendments to the law, changing the public procurement strategy and strengthening capacity to apply the requirements and the SAA. "As you can see, there is no praise, but it is good to say that the steps we take and which we will take in the future will lead to that promotion. That's what we've absorbed now. We've seen that there's a great possibility of manipulation, that the situation is showing us much more pink than it is, and that can't be when it comes to laws like this. I've pointed out his significance, but now I'd like to show you what's really going on with this law. You see, in our analysis, we tried... And that's where I have to comment, I don't know who, president, you may have rushed to Portugal, but there's been an inconvenience not only to our MP club, but to other MP clubs that I've had contact with, when the session was about an emergency procedure. Although this law says on the very cover, on the proposal, that it is an emergency procedure, and on the back, where it is said about the reasons for the adoption, it also says that it is an emergency procedure, however, probably because of the speed, unintentional, because I would not have any conspiracy theory, which is why President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic would have done it on purpose, we were mistaken that we could submit amendments to a certain deadline. However, when the agenda was established, this was not put on the agenda by emergency procedure. All these amendments have failed, unless there is a good will for the Committee to reconsider and see if any amendments are really crucial, and we think there are, I can say for some, and then the Committee will reconsider those amendments. I'm saying, I guess it wasn't done on purpose, but it was an accident, so I noticed these days that a really very small number of amendments arrive at such an important law. Probably because no proposed amendments have been adopted that have been made by parliamentary clubs. I'd like to say what the main impression is when it comes to this law. It is certain that the principles on which this law is based, and I will tell you the basic principles... First of all, in order for this law to be good, it must be non-discriminatory, it must be respected by the absolute principle of competition, that no one can be excluded. That means you can't set up public procurement and to someone your brother, friend, partner, etc. You're setting up public procurement. He has to be transparent. It must at any moment, firstly, from the very publication of public procurement, documentation and therefore the introduction of this portal and Internet communication. It exists in the law but it is not fully specified when it comes to the Internet, it will only be done afterwards. So transparency is another important principle, and then equal treatment for all those who compete. If these are principles - equality, competition, a procedure that must be completely clear and transparent, it is certain that this law represents a certain improvement compared to the previous law, that some illogicalities have been abolished. What my basic impression of this law is that he, gentlemen of the peoples and citizens, is terribly complicated. It is good that in one place the law stipulates that there must be one person who has a certificate in those institutions where there are a large number of public procurements; without expertise these public procurements cannot be done at all, because the application of such a complicated law is very difficult. I'll say after what the main objections are when it comes to such a law, but the main thing is that he doesn't have any legal or institutional framework in this society. You take a law that exists in a very complicated and complex legislative system of the European Union, you transfer it to Serbia, and you have no legal framework at all, no institutional framework, no awareness of the validity of rights, no law. In a party state, where you fill institutions with party friends, where everything over a relationship can be realized, you introduce such a complicated procedure without having some basic things to put it into some kind of frame so that it could work at all. Here, I will state this example that I have already mentioned here and that concerns the criticism of the European Union. So, what is our internal control in the public administration, first of all? I've never heard of that system of administrative control, meaning internal control, working at all. Secondly, as is evident in this report by the European Commission, of all institutions, since two institutions are formed here when it comes to public procurement, which should have been independent, none have been able to achieve it. This assembly knows very well how she chose the State Auditing Institution. The law was passed in 2005 and still, beware, after three years of age, does not work so-called. external control; besides that audit institution, we still don't have those auditors controlling the way the funds are spent. Why do we need such a complicated law on public procurement? It's a good thing it exists. But how is it going to function in one environment where there's no control of how who comes to certain places, how do you spend the funds, how do you even control this? I really don't see how this law will carry out its role if such practical institutions don't exist. When it comes to all six institutions -- to control competition, the Galactic, for access to public information, the Commission for the Protection of Rights, is now the Republic Commission for the Protection of the Rights of the Providers, so it is an independent institution, it is shown everywhere that neither has enough personnel nor has enough resources, and it is also a matter of choice. As far as I can see, she's chosen by the government proposing that commission, and then she's elected by the Assembly. If it's like we chose the State Audit, that institution, then I know there's nothing in advance. Or there will be some few brave men who will fight the windmills, but who will have very many difficulties to function. So in a system where an independent institution cannot be founded, where it cannot work independently of other influences, this law really becomes very problematic and the question is what can happen to it at all. Now I'd like to say one more thing, that there has to be this control mechanism, so, including those other institutions that have to function, that this complex law would make sense at all. That is, for example, when you say, and here in the Assembly we have often discussed, the purpose of the procurement is not solved by this law. So he only solves the central part of the procedure between the client, means the one who buys, and the one who sells. That's the central part about public procurement. But how is it going to evaluate what needs to be done, should we say, buy 200 cars or 10 cars, or should the carpets in the Assembly or not be changed, whether computers should be purchased or not? It's not all about this part at all, it's about the other legislation that doesn't add up to these parts. And let's not talk about what kind of agreements and contracts are even made. This law does not go into it at all, so the very purpose of public procurement does not go into it and of course we can have these big problems about it. So it's just that central part, and these two more, and you don't have institutions that can control it. Since my time is running out, I'm going to say that I'm sorry that the government never has the courage to touch some other parts of the government that might eventually be limited in some way. One of our amendments, at least five or six of which I think are very significant, refers to confidential procurement. That's your Article 7, I don't know exactly what point in Article 7, where you have some supplies that are practically the most expensive. From time to time, it's known that the biggest corruption in military procurement is, and everyone always likes to trade with the military, because it's classified procurement and there's no control. Just to warn the citizens, that's when this complicated law that I've been talking about puts an ad act together and has no control at all. So maybe some kind of internal control within the military, within the police force, although we know what it's been like so far, but they're being separated from this process, there's no this procedure. We have proposed this amendment to define this more precisely, to adopt one regulation to minimise as much as possible such huge procurement as possible, which is removed from the public's eyes and that this complex law, which should represent some progress, is applied as much as possible. Because if we separate those parts, if it turns out that they can't be applied here, and so you give them this great freedom not to tell them what security is, or what national interest is, that it doesn't specify, then it seems to me that this law is already in advance for a great deal of public procurement will not apply at all. Other amendments will be discussed by other colleagues, since I probably won't have a chance to talk about them in an individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7088	Thank you. The law is otherwise referred to as an emergency procedure; however, the Assembly did not vote for an emergency procedure and is practically in the procedure like any other law. The river is owned by Master Jorvanka Tabakovic, representative of the parliamentary group Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7089	Dear colleagues, respected Serbian citizens, should be heard by all who make their arguments. The Law on Public Procurement, which the Government has decided this time to present to us not through alterations and complements but through a unique and comprehensive solution, is one of those laws that speak of themselves and more about procedure than the very essence that this procedure wants to resolve. What is a fundamental object and the reason why the Prosperity Club can't vote for this law is that the law talks about competition all the time and encourages discrimination; it talks all the time about spending funds and savings, but no proposed legal solution allows them to be saved and implemented through the application of the law. What is most controversial is that this means of spending from 2002 to today could be seen, where the biggest problems are, and they have been considered, since we have had the opportunity to make sure that a huge amount of public funds are spent in this process. According to the Public Procurement Administration, which is the body formed by this law, the largest contractors of jobs, goods and services are public enterprises, among which we have various categories of public enterprises: those who earn profits and which are financed from their business, but unfortunately those who spend budgets, which show losses, and the way in which they spend public funds and public procurement do not show that they deserve it. In the group of companies are Telekom Srbija, Elektroprivreda, Tent Obrenovac, Belgrade City Administration, the Republic Health Insurance Office, the Building Land Directorate and the construction of Belgrade, the Mining Based Kolubara, Belgrade Road, thermopower plants, ElektroSerbija Kraljevo, PTT traffic, all local self-government and a large number of yet unimportant small enterprises. What I want to draw citizens' attention to, and what is not resolved by this law, is that statistics show that in the public procurement implemented under the existing law, which does not change much, a large number of contracts have been awarded to domestic suppliers, i.e. manufacturers and service providers. That percentage is 98%. It could be said that the Public Procurement Act, according to this information, is forging a domestic clientele that offers services and goods. I must say that only 2% of contracts are awarded to EU companies, but this data is devalued by the fact that in that number of contracts, where statistics show their skills, in those 2% of contracts awarded is the number of those most valuable. So the largest amount of funding that Serbian citizens have made possible the government's budget, through its public enterprises, to spend it has just been allocated to foreign bidders through the most expensive jobs, such as building bridges and highways. That the situation has not even been corrected by law tells the fact that the law proposes a solution that the client can require a number of subcontractors to be domestic. No - may require, the law should be binding, while EU laws do not oblige and until they allow, that more than half of the subcontractors should be domestic enterprises. This is important in the moment when the waves of the global financial crisis affect us and the most in businesses are going to have problems with jobs that come into question; this is the additional reason why you had to make such a commitment by law. I must say that those who have analysed the law all the time were thinking about what statistics are that, according to EU criteria, will qualify us as a country that has competitive procedures, so, dear citizens, it is said that at the beginning of the law, we had a situation where contracts were awarded in the competition of three bidders or even less, before 2000, means before the validity of this law, and then, in the course of 2002 to 2004, we applied to one job by up to seven bidders, that a large number of participants were delivering reports of public procurement made, but that after 2004, the situation took place to compete with five bidders and to reduce the number of those who submit a report on how they were spending public funds. (The MPs of the SRS are banging on MPs' benches all the time. ( ) The reason for this is, above all, not in the imperfection of the law, but in the way in which it is applied and in which it lasts. Despite the existence of criminal provisions in the Public Procurement Act, mainly state-owned enterprises and companies in which the state has a certain participation through management rights or capital, the state punishes its companies with warnings. Although you have in your criminal provisions that the violation of the provisions of this law is punishable by a legal person, as an institution, in millions of proportions, amounts, authorized person behind these decisions and infractions of the procedure, means poor spending of funds, is fined by between 20,000 and 50,000 dinars. The state is not an unnamed ship, some people represent the state. Public undertakings participating in these procedures sign and represent quite certain people, who are responsible for the way the funds are spent. The basic intention where the state wants to show that it takes care of the means is precisely whether it punishes those who violate that law, whether it provides preventive control. Why do you say he can hire homework? Write down that he has to hire some homework. If he doesn't, the punishment will come. At this point, we cannot leave the functioning of the state on the consciences of individuals, but on strictly defined, precise provisions that cannot be subject to double interpretation. Why would someone respect the law, as you can see, why would they even hand you reports if it was a fine of 20,000 to 50,000 dinars? Always the individual benefit of breaking the law is greater than the punishment that stands here. We have a law in which you prescribed that mandatory conditions for participation should be, among other things, proof that tax is paid. To be clear, tax obligations are uncut, citizens have to be respected, and citizens have to pay taxes, but the Public Procurement Act can't do a job for the Tax Administration, it has to do it on its own. I know that when you take visas and when you register cars, you demand proof that you pay your debts to the state... (The President warns the Messengers with a bell that they do not interfere with the speaker. ) But do you ask every bidder for proof that he paid taxes, and the one to whom this law applies is fined by 20,000 - 50,000 dinars? Where's the equality of punishment, where's the seriousness of access? That those to whom this law applies are very imaginative, so some call them cheaters, speaks also the ingenuity of those who are obliged to apply it. For example, a case that shows practice, and many citizens would know to enlarge this exposure to various experiences, that lately the bidder gives a drastically lower price because the client told him in advance that a particular job will not even be done, so he has a promise that his risk will be worth it, because in the realisation of the job, this cost will be something that will not burden each other, I stress, the profit. There's one rule that can be classified into imagination, and I can say - and fraud. The rules of foreign banks that appear as investors in many jobs or as lenders are placed above the domestic law on public procurement, so it is the will of whoever gives money is very important when choosing who will do the job. It happens that at the stage of assessing and comparing offers, if it is not possible to do so, commission members invent a whole repertoire of some decision-making criteria to choose the best offer. This is done when the price of the criteria, where the price carries only about 30 points, and the reference list, so the list of those you've already worked with, is carrying 50 points relative to the price. Is it important, for example, for the delivery of office paper or toilet paper that you have references to the list that you delivered it to a large house with a sound name or is it important to deliver the requested and verified quality? So, abuse of criteria, abuse of rules speaks more about discrimination than about competition, which is basically the law. The law on public procurement requires that taxpayers' money be spent publicly, transparently and on competition principles, but that is a theory. We are witnessing that practice shows that the number of procedures that have been annulled, and there were averages of 300 a month, is actually talking about the abuse of the law which, I can't say otherwise than, after all this time of application, left the gaps of this kind consciously. What I want to underline as an abuse is that some services are performed as exclusive, that there is the only producer of any material, any element, for sealing, for sneezing, or some element of ordinary plastic. What was the role of the Chamber of Commerce in the certification that these were exclusive and only producers? I don't want to judge, and it's up to you to set it up by law. What allows this law, as such, to last, is the state's attitude towards the State Auditing Institution, whose primary job is to control companies that spend social resources in public procurement procedures. The fact that the State Audit Institute has not yet received this in the mission says that the state is not in the interest of controlling the way the funds are spent. I especially warn you in the way of spending resources in BIA, MUP, military and other organizations, which, for entirely justified reasons of confidentiality, should have special treatment. Dear citizens, special treatment is provided in a very simple way. You and such public funds may not be in the public procurement system, but, of course, the finance minister will report on it at least three months. The authorities of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, which is the Committee on Defence and Security, must submit a three-month report on such purchases, because we can provide such control and protect both the institution and the confidentiality of the procurement, but above all, to provide the public, or control of the spending of funds. In law, you also applied that general principle - the market applies to everyone except the state. The market applies to every citizen of Serbia, but does not apply to those whose citizens of Serbia are filling the state register. Why did you legally give up the service of bankruptcy managers, and you have the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants? For them, among other things, it is not possible to sell its services and to obtain these services on the market, but to extract them from the domain of public procurement. It is about those who, on behalf of the state, have the largest amount of funds from privatisation, from social capital and from privatisation, in bankruptcy proceedings with banks, financial institutions and insurance companies spending huge funds, and without any control. If we trust them with billions of euros, to decide on them, why are we deprive them of the competition that the law provides for everyone else? One more thing I'm going to say: why in the penalties and in the stories of the imperfection of the law that we need to change even the people invited by the Public Procurement Authority say, one company and some authorised man outside the company were misusing funds? In the name of what do we keep from condemning the public to those who have violated the Public Procurement Act? By nominate those who do not manage public funds in the right way, we must try to bring them to the public by calling on a conviction called conscience, perhaps it has an impact. Because I am convinced that this law does not define the spending of funds, neither criminal policy nor encourages domestic production, nor introduces order in the spending of state resources. It's simply one of the laws that needs to be spent here for five hours of debate and a little more hours of debate on amendments. I don't expect any more serious, different policy than spending those funds, and I'd like you to deny me. Thank you. (For the entire duration of the speech of MP Jorgvanka Tabakovic, the SRS MPs were banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7090	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7091	Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, I must warn you that you are constantly violating some of the provisions of our Rules of Procedure, above all I am referring to Article 27, but you might be able to find some other member from the beginning to the last cover, because you have also violated those members. I fully understand that you are maintaining international co-operation, but as far as I know, you were not in Greece. You have now demonstrated a Greek concept, the original concept of democracy, and that is the concept where every citizen comes to the centre of the square, says what he has to say, and then all the citizens present vote and counts for the decision being made. Of course democracy had to evolve in the meantime. Of course, the reflection of this evolution is the people's MPs as their kind of people's representatives. When you give a word to someone who thinks he's a national representative, and that's not... Of course, the mandates have been stolen, but it's not a thief's problem, the problem is who's guarding that thief. Dru Mrkonjic said the other day – I really don't know if the president is abroad or in the country. The Dark One said - we would have opened this time 15 days ago, but we couldn't catch the President of the Republic. He's on some peace missions, not using the Seagull. Please don't let this happen to you, because every day you become an accomplice to something called a crime in Article 328. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia. When a citizen, aware of his broken oaths, violation of the Constitution and at the border of the moral sunflower, comes for this pay phone, then, of course, in a serious discussion, we can hear the criticism of Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic because there was no toilet paper in that package yesterday. The lady was talking about toilet paper. You from the Democratic Party must, through public procurement, make these packages for elections. It's that message from your future coalition partner, because it's taken a very good example of public procurement of toilet paper. Yesterday we realized, besides jams and stuff, Martinovic later brought that toothbrush you put on, but you forgot the toilet paper. You see, your coalition partners remind you. That's why it's no wonder that the yellow package said it -- vote for Boris plus Tom, Smokey, because it was also in that package. Please, it's not funny, Mrs. Djukic. This is a very serious topic. You become an accomplice not only to this crime; you save them in this way so that the court does not go further to investigate the abuse of official position and the fact that, under the orders of Boris Tadic, this group of citizens has caused the SRS to block 68,000,000 dinars. Look who's applauding.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7092	No more words, you're done, time's up. Ms. Marina Ragush is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Article 226 and I am asking for an explanation, possibly an explanation from the Prime Minister, the BIA, the Ministry of Defence and all the authorities, given that a real diplomatic scandal is being prepared at the next Security Council meeting. It concerns Eulexa and increasing pressure for Serbia to recognise an independent Kosovo. So, the Serbian Radical Party has, from a few minutes ago, very precise data from circles close to the UN's senior officials that there has actually been some stalemate in negotiations on the Belgrade-Brisel, Washington-Pristina line. We are from these sources too, and it needs the public to know, get an explanation of what the status neutral mission of Eulex means. This means being neutral about the status of independent Kosovo and Metohija. So many dear colleagues, you know, we've asked the answer to this question both from the foreign minister and from all officials of the Serbian state and we haven't received it. There's a very difficult diplomatic struggle going on right now. The Romanian parliamentarian in the European Parliament, Mr Adrian Severin, asked the Council of the European Union to answer directly to the question whether it is true that the European Union is pushing Serbia to recognise Kosovo and Metohija. So, unfortunately, the public in Serbia, exactly at 1627 hours, should know that the Assembly is not a place where the government and all those participating in these negotiations came to answer these questions, that these last moments for all those Serbs who signed the petition, and these are 70,000, also very important historic moments for the entire Serbian people, are actually for the Serbian national entity, the Serbian national heritage. Ladies and gentlemen, if we happen to have our delegation bow to that condition, therefore, now very defined condition, the European Union to recognise on the Serbian side the independence of Kosovo and Metohija, we have nothing to look for here in this House anymore. That was why the Security Council session was postponed and nothing else. So, I hope that in the days to come we will find answers to these dilemmas and this information that the Serbian Radical Party learned a few minutes ago and that we will be able to find a common solution to preserve what really is the heart of Serbia, which is Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7094	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7095	I want to rely on what a colleague from the Serbian Radical Party said. What is unacceptable is that Kosovo authorities decided that at the Security Council session, they were represented by Foreign Minister Skender Hyseni, which is something that is actually the opposite of UNMIK's statute. The question I have for the President of the Assembly is this. Since October, according to a stamp from the National Assembly's office, there has been a request from the Association of Families Kidnapped and Killed in Kosovo and Metohija to answer the question whether, who and when decided to withdraw the red Interpol warrant for Ramush Haradinaj and Hashim Thaci. Let me remind you, Prime Minister so-called. Kosovo Hashim Thaci, born 24. 4. In 1968, in Buroje, a Serb municipality, the Republic of Serbia, convicted of terrorism, was released for UNMIK intervention. Whether UNMIK alone, the question is, because UNMIK chief Michael Steiner himself claimed that his release was not a high-level intervention, but a top-level operation. In fact, Mr Thaci is a colleague of President Boris Tadic's and his student, current Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic. How's your buddy? A colleague at the Socialist International. The Democratic Party and the Social Democratic Party of Serbia were admitted to full membership from Serbia from 30 June to 2 July 2008. The particular question is - how is it possible that the Democratic Party, whose own name does not correspond to the Internationale programme, should be a member of an organisation that does not respect our Constitution? It seems that Tadic's violation of the constitution has already become a common right approved by foreign mentors. To note, Nobel laureate Martti Ahtisaari is a member of the European Socialist Party. Otherwise, co-operation between Tadic, Jeremic and Thaci is not a newer date. At consultations of the Socialist International on the future of Kosovo, held in Sofia on 30 November 2005, Jeremic and Thaci met already and supported Ahtisaari together. At the next, a bar for us, a public gathering of the Socialist International in Athens in 2006, Tadic and Thaci participated in the panel discussion. A resolution supporting Ahtisaari and its European perspective for Serbia and Kosovo was adopted. Pay attention, not for Serbia with Kosovo. Also present were Vuk Jeremic, Dusan Petrovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Oliver Dulic. It is no wonder, therefore, that a statement by Minister Dulic was found on the front page of the NIN on July 31st this year -- we will also co-operate with Thaci's government. Dosto Thaci is a negotiator in Rambuje, but also a signator of an agreement that was pushed into Resolution 1244, which the Serbian side did not sign. It's a special story. On February 18th, Serbia's MUP filed criminal charges against Hashim Thaci, Sejdiu and Krasniqi, who organised a false state declaration on Serbian soil in Pristina on February 17th, committing a serious crime against constitutional order. What happened to the criminal report and how could Minister Dulic, on behalf of the Serbian government, declare Thaci a co-operation partner? How was Interpol's arrest warrant withdrawn for a man who was sentenced in Pristina in July 1997 to ten years in prison for crime and terrorism? Who, when, why and how did he decide to pull the red Interpol warrant after Thaci?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7096	Mrs. Ragush Marina, again. Your question today... This is actually a parliamentary question, it shouldn't be at this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7097	I'm reporting again on the basis of Article 226 and I'm asking for an explanation and an explanation from all the Serbian government authorities. As far as, of course, what we learned a few minutes ago. It seems to me that this is the essence of the overall problem and is related to the discussion and implementation of the Eulex which de facto already means the recognition of Marty Ahtisaari's plan, which Mrs Doris Pak explained to us the other day before our Serbian government officials. So, as Radio Free Europe reports, Sonja Licht, I quote, the president of the Belgrade Fund for Political Excellence, also said on this topic that Mr. Jeremic has tightened his stance in negotiations in the sense that there is no more conditioning, which is recognition of Kosovo's independence and Metohija, because someone who plays a certain significant role on this or that side of the ocean is putting pressure on him that was previously thought to be gone. This only confirms the information we have received, which we want from the Serbian government officials to check. Also, the foreign minister, whom we cannot welcome at the Committee on Foreign Affairs because there is a shortcut to work (probably negotiates on his own behalf, since there is no platform by the Serbian Parliament), I ask how it is possible that in the United Kingdom's newly appointed ambassador to the United Kingdom, we hear that the United Kingdom is strongly favouring such a reconfiguration of UNMIK that would be based on its replacement to Eulex, and if, due to a possible Russian veto, it is necessary and without the consent of the Security Council. So, the Serbian Radicals and the opposition who wanted to put this on the agenda of the National Assembly situation is quite clear. Why does not the foreign minister come and all those responsible for this situation are also very clear. It is simply unacceptable that we all inform ourselves of such an important issue, for example, from Albanian diaries. So we find out what kind of formula it is, how EULEX will actually be implemented in the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija -- by chairing the Security Council, avoiding Russia's veto, to issue a statement that EULEX will replace UNMIK, to be neutral to the status of Kosovo and Metohija. The saddest thing is that only one ordinary Serbian Radical Party MP explains to you what we got again from foreign sources but, thank God, the friendly sources of close UN officials about what a terrible fate is being prepared for the entire Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7098	The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7099	I remind you again that there is a Article 27. The Rules of Procedure and I draw your attention that what you are doing in the National Assembly is scandalous. You do not care at all that the meetings of the National Assembly run in the best order, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and that those issues that are relevant to the people and the state are resolved. There is probably no more important topic at this point than the Eulex question. You devalued it, you threw it practically into oblivion. Let me remind you, last week we asked to join the agenda, according to the Constitution, a proposal to vote for no confidence in the government, among other things because of these secret negotiations on the installation of the Eulex mission on the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija. You said it would be at the first next session. Look now, the miracle of the greatest or wonder never before seen: the government's MPs have begun to submit amendments, we probably have about 200-300 amendments, where they correct their government's proposal. Of course, it's designed to buy time to discuss these points of the agenda as long as possible. Among those points are seven points relating to a set of laws in the field of justice, which should not be followed by an emergency procedure, since all of this will start to apply in 2011. Look at this disgrace and shame today: a representative of the government under the draft law on public procurement - the minister of diaspora. What does the minister of the diaspora have to do with this item of the agenda, and in what sense would he very professionally state the government's views on some issues concerning, above all, the Ministry of Finance? Stop it more, please, with this devaluation of work in the National Assembly and by playing all possible regulations. Of course, it's clear to everyone now why you're holding something you shouldn't sit here and why the subject of a high-sense debate over the public procurement bill is to get toilet paper. Do not devalue and destroy what exists in this nation. Probably the next point, the second point of urgency that should be on the agenda is these three laws regarding deposit insurance. You have also submitted amendments and you deliberately move them to the end, and you know that the financial crisis is shaking and that this Jelasic poor man is about to die, since he cannot say what our financial system is like. What do you want to accomplish in this way by holding a session of the National Assembly, to further demean the National Assembly? Well, there's no need to bother, she's demeaning enough with the fact that she's stealing, that she's getting rid of things here, and that the thieves are giving moral lectures to someone who's supposed to apply regulations tomorrow. I would ask you to, if you can, find a qualified representative of the government for this agenda point, because a representative of the Government in the National Assembly should not sit, be beautiful and take a picture, but should be actively involved in what needs to be discussed at a session of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7100	Mr Milan Lapčević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7101	The President-in-Office, the honourable MPs, the Honorable Mr Minister, the law on public procurement should, by nature of things, be one of the most important, not to say the most important laws that, in addition to the budget and the laws that bring us closer to the European Union, would be the subject of discussion at the meetings of the Serbian Parliament. Honestly, I expected to see Mrs Dragutinovic, not because she is a woman of nature and who is a minister, but because she is a minister of finance and would probably be much more competent to answer many questions that will be raised here during the principle, especially during the debate on table amendments, if there are any, which is another problem that I do not seem to have been accidentally made. Because the law was proposed by an emergency procedure, but the ruling majority did not give him that urgency, but entered the regular procedure and thus reduced the possibility of submitting amendments until the start of a principle debate on the given law, but only until the beginning of the session. Such a law is very important and current with several aspects, especially from the aspect that ranks Serbia as the 87th country in the world at the rate of corruption. It is particularly relevant in terms of the huge public spending Serbia has at the moment, which is further increased by the current budget rebalancing to 25 billion, and the budget deficit is 25 billion dinars. So, huge public spending, according to the announcements, should be even bigger, given the pension allocations, if there is one at all, and if Mr. Krkobic at the last minute does not give up on his intentions. So, if the minister is not here today to explain this current and very important law, to say what the basic paper is in that law, why he is better than the previous one and what it recommends to be voted in the National Assembly, then it was most logical and normal for at least a representative of the Government to bring out here what the minister was supposed to do, or for her deputy, Mr. Ilic, to say anything about this law on public procurement. In my opinion, it is really inadmissible for the government to be Minister Sredkovic, who, of course, is not competent for this law and we cannot expect him to say anything about it. But at least the State Secretary, or Deputy Finance Minister, says anything about this law... In any case, it speaks of the seriousness of the government and the seriousness of the finance minister, that is, how important this law is and how serious it is. The previous Public Procurement Act has had many shortcomings. Among other things, these shortcomings have been reflected in the transparency of procedures carried out by state authorities and institutions and by all those who have the state budget and state money. It was also problematic equality in the tendering process. There have been many shortcomings and as far as the urgency of the proceedings is concerned, many holes that have been widely used, abuses, in terms of negotiations without publication of a public call, overcoming the basic price of the procurement contract, etc. These basic problems which were the subject of criticism in the previous law are somewhat removed by this law and must be said. This law is a qualitative step towards the previous, but in any case, far from what could have been found in this law and far from the ideal law that would reduce the possibility of any manipulation or corruption in public procurement. That, therefore, has not been achieved. I'm just going to tell you a little bit about the structure of public procurement, which is, therefore, what all states and numbers are spending money on. From 2003 to 2007, since the latest procurement data in Serbia, the state has spent about a billion euros (2003) to over two billion euros (2007) for various goods and services financed from the taxpayers' budget or public enterprises. Of these public procurements 15% is waste on state authorities, 65% on public enterprises, far the largest number of public procurements on public enterprises, state, 13% on institutions and 8% on municipalities. The biggest problem in public procurement has been seen in the control of these public procurements. The control so far has relied on the opinions of the Public Procurement Administration which did not have sufficient capacity to monitor the reports and to give relevant opinions on a particular public procurement that is controversial. The key restriction the Public Procurement Administration had in the previous period is that there is no possibility of verifying the credibility of the claims made by the contracting authorities in the memos and reports which are subject to certain controls. In this law, several objectives were to be achieved: to introduce a modern concept of monitoring and controlling public procurement, to redefine the role of public procurement institutions and, of course, to strengthen the staff and financial capacities of these institutions to monitor public procurement. The Public Procurement Administration, we said, does not have enough capacity to do so, because it cannot control on the ground whether a particular entity, a public procurement client, which provides information or public procurement reports, gives credible data and cannot enter into its business, into the budget etc., but only relys on the subject of what was delivered by the contracting authorities, therefore, only the data contained in the procurement order reports are used. Also, a special problem is the budget of institutions that monitor public procurement. For the Serbian Public Procurement Authority, the budget was around 350,000 euros last year, while in countries with approximately the same population, for example, in Slovakia, the budget for institutions dealing with public procurement control is around 4.3m euros, in Hungary. The vulnerabilities of the previous law were most pronounced in that section concerning the procedure of guessing without prior publication of a public call, which has been massively violated in many public procurement procedures. And if a particular contracting authority, i.e. the bidder on that procurement, has complained about such a procedure (or anyone interested in such a procurement), the Authority did not have the capacity to verify the truthfulness of the claim that certain public procurement must be done with a guess, but without prior publication of a public call. It was logical to expect that such a provision would be repealed in this proposed law, and that was the recommendation made by the European Commission and EU authorities, however, the provision remained. For example, an example of Croatia that has such a provision that although public procurement is carried out through direct guessing, such procurement must again be made public, at least 15 days before the start of this procurement, or public procurement negotiations. I'm going to make a brief note of what other shortcomings are in this new proposed law. I will be held back in a negotiating procedure without making public calls, where one who wants to make public procurement in a negotiation procedure without making public calls does not have to ask for that public procurement of any permission from anyone and does not prove why it is necessary to make public procurement after the negotiation procedure, nor why such a procedure is not publicly announced. This can be clearly seen in Articles 5, 7 and 8, where the procurement of public works or services is talked about, where it is possible for those who provide certain services or works to negotiate directly with the bidder, without prior publication, and that they do not have to submit any request or later report to anyone. One of the basic characteristics of the proposed law is that it is really very complicated and complex. Instead of reducing paperwork in this law and simplifying the procedure, he seems to be further complicated. So, let's say, the bidder is asked to respond at all to a certain public call, or tender, that they have to meet a huge number of previous conditions, deliver enormous paperwork, which additionally burdens the whole process and which burdens the bidder himself financially. One of the important things that this law did not provide, and I will give only one example, is Article 59, which says that after the deadline for submitting offers, the bidder cannot withdraw or modify the offer, and if he does or if he does not sign the contract when his offer is selected, the client is authorised to cash in the guarantee given with the offer. So the client can cash in, but there's no telling if he has to do it. I think it had to be in this law, especially if the case of Mayor Zrenjanin and what was done there - that several bidders in the tender had made their offers and that the first or the second one had always withdrawn with the lowest price, and otherwise he did not bear any great sanctions for it. Articles 64 to 68 discuss deadlines for submission of tenders. Article 66 lays down a general time limit for the submission of tenders in a restrictive procedure. Article 67 shortened the time limit for submission of tenders in a restrictive procedure, and Article 68 refers to conditions for further reduction of deadlines. So in two members, deadlines are shortened. I really don't see the purpose and logic of double-cutting the deadlines for supplying offers, and in that case, whoever asks for this deadline cut doesn't in any way prove the need to cut the deadlines for supplying offers. It is also stated in Article 82 that "after the conclusion of the contract, the contracting authority may allow a change of price only for objective reasons, which must be set out in the competition documentation, i.e. provided for by specific regulations". This is quite vague and inexplicably defined and can be the subject of many manipulations; the client can invent a million reasons and say, in agreement with the one who offers a particular commodity or service, to allow a change in price. There is one item that I would publicly praise, it is contained in Article 90 where it is said that if the strategic interest of implementing the public procurement process is to remove regional differences or to open new jobs in underdeveloped areas, the contracting authority may, in addition to the elements of the criteria of general elements to predict and some specific ones, favouring those suppliers or those entities coming from such areas, which is certainly a good thing and I hope that in the coming period, it will be used as an instrument for overcoming major social differences and differences in the development of certain parts of Serbia. I expected, as already stated in Article 90, that I could see in Article 101 that the headquarters of the administration could be in another city, for example, someone underdeveloped, which would further help a certain environment come out of this rut of underdevelopment. However, this commission for the protection of the rights of the bidder, its headquarters, will also be in Belgrade, as will all other administrations, commissions, government and NGOs, public enterprises and the like, which continues to favour the centre as the city in which everything is going to happen, and in other parts of Serbia regional differences will continue to grow. In any case, I can say that this law has partially improved the situation of the previous period, but there are many shortcomings. When it comes to details and certain amendments, we will criticise this law and ask the legislators of this law to adopt our suggestions so that this law can contribute to reducing public spending in Serbia, which is too large and reducing corruption, which is one of the most important elements of harmonising Serbia and the EU's relations, i.e. Serbia reduces the expenditure and burdens of citizens who spill over into various tycoons who in this way poverty citizens and themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7102	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was first advertised by Mr Dimitrijevic, so Mr. Maras. Before I give my word to Mr Dimitrijevic, just to let you know, Minister Diana Dragutinovic is in meetings with IMF representatives today. Mr. Sretkovic and her closest associates are quite competent to receive all the information. During this session, she will be able to address and answer all the questions she will be given. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrievich.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7103	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to speak by Article 226 and to inform the public of Serbia and the public of Belgrade of some facts relating to the work of SO Vozdovac, but also to receive answers from the relevant state authorities. Since its constitution, SO Leader has been working under illegal conditions. It cannot be the congregation majority number 28, if the total number of MPs is 56. Convince us that's the case. Three So sessions are scheduled; there are three solutions to the District Court that the SO has been convened in an illegal manner because there is no parliamentary majority. Apparently, the haughtiness of this government has no limits. In the end, they have an example here from the Republic Assembly where there are several people who do not have the right under the Constitution to be MPs. When they have an example of the Republican congregation, it is easy for them to behave in the local congregations as well. We talked a few days about a set of law enforcement laws. From the minister of justice and MPs of the ruling coalition, we have often heard of respect for rights and laws. Is this how you respect the right to rule without a congregational majority? Is this how the law is respected, when there are three district court decisions? Is that what you assure Serbian citizens of? Is that justice for everyone? Do you have an answer to this? The memos were also sent to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. The letter was also sent to the mayor of Belgrade. There's no answer because there's only one answer - the assembly is illegal. Under the Law of Local Self-Government, a congregation that has not had a quorum for three months must be dissolved. A congregation that doesn't have a secretary of parliament for six months, which is an obligation under the Law on Local Self-Government, such a assembly is illegal... (President: bring the end, Mr Dimitrievich, please. I'm done. Think about it. You talk one thing, you work the other, and who knows what you think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7104	National MP Slobodan Maras, then Srdjan Spasojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7105	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary, I called, above all, because it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I want an answer from you, too, President of the Assembly. Last week, we extended law-making by emergency procedure because, at the intervention of the opposition, we were given time to submit amendments. It was probably more of a reason to organize and take a trip to Portugal, and that's fine. But it's a little... I have here also the stenograms of 5 November and the Government's proposal to convene the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the Assembly since 31 October, where these laws are proposed. We have here a proposal from the government by emergency procedure, which was subsequently withdrawn, etc. What's my question? Why couldn't we postpone the start of this agenda for tomorrow morning, so that there was Minister Diana Dragutinovic here and that we could hear a word from her instead of Mrs Vesna Pesic, the LDP MP, who was, in fact, the introduction to this agenda point? The way it was speeded up, that is, the way that the proposal for a law on public procurement did not go according to an emergency procedure led to the fact that the three opposition parliamentary groups did not submit amendments to this law, or that they did not have time to submit, since we were counting on it to be in accordance with this... I can accept that it's our failure, our ignorance of law, or we haven't read it, and it's gonna hurt us. But our failure is not that you still have a problem with Mr. Krkobic in the government because Mr. Krkobic is rocking, or is looking for what he was promised. The International Monetary Fund, with which we want an arrangement, cannot accept those demands. You have a problem with him, and that's why the IMF extended its stay here. But if you say that the Minister will be able tomorrow, why weren't we able to see the Minister from the beginning, that is, to explain to us this proposal for a law on public procurement? This is how you brought Mr. Sretkovic into an awkward situation, because whatever question we ask him can be whispered to him by Mr. Ilic if he is intended to answer during the debate, but that is not it. So, I'm just asking you why we could give five days for some laws and some trips are being arranged, and we couldn't give one afternoon Minister Dragutinovic to come here and explain the bill to the MPs?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7106	Mr. Marash, this was a law that was in the regular procedure. The government has been defined as being defined. There was no suggestion to move this point; we had already entered it. (Free Marash, from place: why couldn't we postpone until the minister arrives tomorrow? There were no such proposals by the MPs. The Minister will absolutely answer all the questions, I have assurances. Mr. Savior, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I report to members 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. We've been discussing a set of justice laws for days. The desire is for all of us to be right in this country. However, there is a flagrant violation of the law on a daily basis, and court decisions are not respected. It is so currently in the country of Serbia. What's this about? My colleague Dimitrijevic has already said a lot about it, but I'll give you some details. So the Vozdovac municipality has been causing public attention for months. It's a classic will, what happens in that municipality, because the parliamentary minority - DS, SPS, LDP and G17 plus is trying to exercise power, and objectively it can't, because it doesn't have a majority. LDP's Isidora Injac, who was established by the District Court as a member of the Municipal Council, was appointed. Regardless of the decision of the District Court, it is constantly providing quorum and taking part in the voting session of the Voždovac Municipality Assembly, although this is not allowed under the law. Today I ask the question behind the congregation speaker: How is it possible, and why do the competent authorities tolerate the law’s disrespect? How is it possible that the competent Ministry of State Administration and local self-government is not advertised and does not give an opinion on the written requirements of the DSS-NS parliamentary group? How is it possible for the Ministry of Local Self-Government to be selectively advertised and to react in cases where there is obviously interest in the ruling coalition and to close their eyes for months before breaking the law in municipalities like the Leaders? On the other hand, is Belgrade Mayor an accomplice, because he is obliged to introduce temporary measures in the Vozdovac municipality after the adoption of the Belgrade City Statute? I ask this house to establish and ask Minister Milan Markovic to be invited to the National Assembly to answer the question why six months after the election of Voždovac municipality has not been established and the Secretary of the Assembly of the Municipality has not been elected? I remind you that all decisions following the election of the LDP board to the municipal council are legally disputed and therefore I ask the mayor of Belgrade why he tolerates the insubordination of the law, the haughtiness and the will of the ruling parties? I believe the prosecution should also react because DS officials in this municipality are publicly saying that implementing decisions in the municipality is not a competent court. I repeat, they call and say it's not the court's jurisdiction. The Council's "Nemanity" has decided to hold a session again, the fourth in a row, illegal, tomorrow, November 14th, although everyone is absolutely aware that there is a valid court ruling that is not challenged by any other verdict. On behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group, I demand that with this lack of respect for the law and legal violence be suspended and that, without delay, the Ministry of Local Self-Government be announced and that its opinion, as well as that the mayor of Belgrade take a decision at the City Council session on the introduction of provisional measures in this municipality. I'm sorry about the time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7108	MP Dejan Radenkovic, authorised on behalf of the SPS-JS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7109	Honored Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the honourable ministers, after five years of applying the Law on Public Procurement, have created the need to adopt a new one, in order to address the shortcomings observed in the practical application of the existing law and to identify new solutions that will enable public procurement providers to carry out public procurement procedures more quickly and to protect their rights more effectively. The new draft law eliminates the conflict between certain provisions and applies the European legislation, with a view to more effective law enforcement. The first part of the law contains basic provisions defining the subject matter of legal regulation. The meaning of the most commonly used terms and concepts is specified, the subject of a public procurement contract has been established, public procurements not covered by the law, principles of public procurement and data protection have been established; the rule on the use of language and currency applicable to public procurement has been laid down, and, most importantly, the way to counter corruption in this area has been regulated. This part of the law contains provisions governing the subject of a procurement contract, which may be the supply of goods, the supply of services and the purchase of works. The law found that public procurement procedures were carried out in accordance with the following principles. The first principle is the principle of economic and efficiency, which means that the procurement process will be carried out and the selection of bidders will be carried out within the deadlines and in a manner prescribed by this law, with as little cost as possible for the realisation of public procurement. The second principle is the principle of ensuring competition among bidders, which means that the contracting authority cannot limit competition between bidders in the process, nor can it unduly carry out restrictive proceedings and guessing procedures. The third principle is the principle of transparency in the procurement process, which, in the sense of the law, means that a public invitation to tender is published in "The Official Messenger", and if the value of public procurement exceeds the amount of 50,000 dinars for goods and services, or 200,000 dinars for works, the public invitation is also published on the website of the Public Procurement Authority. The fourth principle is the principle of equality between the tenderers, which implies the obligation of the contracting authorities to provide equal treatment to all tenderers at all stages of the procurement process. The relevant segment is that anti-corruption rules have established the obligation of the contracting authority to reject the offer if it has at its disposal credible evidence that the tenderer tried to bribe a member of the procurement commission, a person involved in the preparation of procurement documents, a person involved in the planning of public procurement or another person, in order to influence them in order to obtain confidential information or to influence the behaviour of the contracting authority or decision-making at any stage of public procurement. Also, the orderer is required to reject the offer if he finds out that the bidder has used a threat to those persons. Among other things, the law regulates both the conditions and the way in which public procurement is carried out, so that the law establishes that the choice of most favourable offers can be made in one of the three types of procedures, and that is: the first procedure is an open procedure. All interested parties may submit tenders in accordance with the conditions laid down in this law and the competition documentation. As a rule, the client applies this procedure. The second is restrictive and consists of two phases: in the first stage, the contracting authority recognises the qualification of applicants, and in the second stage calls on all candidates to whom he has recognised the qualification to submit tenders. The third procedure is a negotiation procedure. The implementation of this procedure is an exception to the rules for procurement to be carried out in an open procedure. The contracting authority may conduct a negotiation procedure with prior publication if, in the open or second phase of the restrictive procedure, it receives all incorrect offers or unacceptable offers, provided that the content of the competition documents does not change. The contracting authority shall invite all tenderers involved in the failure of the open or second stage of the restrictive procedure to complete the tenders by making them correct and acceptable. The price offered in this case cannot be higher than the price offered in the open or restrictive procedure. The client may also conduct a negotiation procedure without prior publication. In this procedure, the contracting authority shall, without public publication, invite the tenderers to submit tenders with all those who have submitted the correct and appropriate offers, negotiate the elements of the procurement contract. The fourth procurement procedure is a competition for plans. Public procurement of services in the areas of urbanism, urban planning, architecture, construction, engineering, design and IT is carried out through the competition. A draft, plan or design is chosen by an independent jury. The fifth procedure is the procedure of public procurement of small value. These provisions relate to the selection of the most favourable offers in the retail procurement process. The law lays down the conditions that the bidder must fulfil in order to participate in the procurement process. A negative reference has also been made to the tenderers for which the contracting authority may refuse the offer of the tenderer. The law obliges the contracting authority to make the most of the choices in a situation where domestic and foreign bidders provide services or perform works, and the difference in the final weighting, i.e. the price between the most favourable offer by a foreign bidder and the most favourable offer by a domestic bidder, should not be greater than 20 weightings, or 20% of the price for the benefit of a foreign bidder, it undertakes to choose as the most favourable offer a domestic bidder. The aim of this provision is to accelerate a domestic economy that is not competitive in the EU market. The opening of tenders and applications is, regardless of the type of procedure, public. Exceptionally, for reasons of keeping business, official, military or state secrets, the contracting authority may decide not to open bids and applications publicly, which is required when advertising public procurement. The third part of the law regulates the procurement of goods, works and services in the areas of water supply, energy, telecommunications and transport. Public procurement from this area is carried out in a qualifying process, which can take place through several stages of qualification and must be based on equal conditions for all. The contracting authority shall also determine in its decision on the recognition of qualifications the period for which the qualification of candidates is recognised and shall not be longer than four years. The fourth part of the law also contains rules on keeping records of concluded contracts under this law. An obligation has been prescribed for the contracting authority to submit a three-month report on the completed procurement contracts to the Administration, and the Authority is obliged to prepare a summary report and to deliver it to the Government by 31 March of the current year. The law also provides for issues relating to public procurement, i.e. the contracting authority needs a public procurement act to provide for a place of work to be carried out and public procurement operations. The legal provision does not oblige less contracting authorities to have a special place of work for a public procurement officer, but rather enables the contracting authority to carry out other public procurement activities in the context of a job. The law also regulates the form of organisation and business of the Public Procurement Administration. The Public Procurement Administration is educated as a special organisation for the performance of professional activities in the field of public procurement. Rules on State Administration apply to the work and organisation of the Public Procurement Administration. The law regulates the area of protection of the rights of the bidder and of the public interest. During all stages of the procedure, the offerer was provided with legal protection by the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, which is a independent and independent body of the Republic of Serbia. The President and members of the Republic Commission are elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. The Republic Commission for its work corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The law also regulates the supervision of the implementation of this law by the Ministry of Finance Affairs. It also regulates the reasons for the futility of the procurement contract. These are the reasons relating to the behaviour of the contracting authorities in the procurement procedure contrary to the provisions of this law. In one part of the law, fines are prescribed from 100,000 to 1,000 dinars for the contracting authority who did not comply with the provisions of the law regarding public advertising, conditions for the initiation of the procurement procedure, respect for the principle of equality of the tenderers, etc. Also, fines are prescribed from 20,000 to 50,000 dinars for the responsible face of the client. The fine of 100,000 to 1,000 dinars will be fined for a violation of a legal person, a bidder, if, for example, it gives incorrect information on professional references, gives incorrect information regarding the conditions for participation in the procurement procedure, i.e. giving incorrect information in a statement of compliance with the conditions for participation in the procurement procedure. In the transitional and final provisions of the law, all public procurement procedures and any right to protection shall be initiated before the entry into force of this law is completed under the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, under which they are initiated. The Commission for the Protection of Rights will continue to decide on requests for protection of the right to elect a Republic's Commission for the Protection of Rights. The proposal for this law provides for its provisions to enter into force at the end of 60 days from the day of its publication in the Official Messenger. However, the SPS-JS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 128 because we believe that this deadline does not comply with the Constitution and that it is 15 days from the publication of a deadline that is in accordance with the Constitution. At the end of it all, I'd briefly recapture it. Since the Public Procurement Act regulates the state money spending process, more than three billion dollars annually, it is clear how important the law is. Public procurement is often the subject of public interest due to suspicion of illegal spending of money and the possibility of corruption. The existing law shows many shortcomings in practice, thus expressing the need for a new one, all in order to reduce corruption and save state money, which is one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Today, when it is necessary for the state, due to the global economic crisis, to take certain austerity measures, to represent only one more in a series of measures taken by the current, responsible government. The previous government had no political will to regulate such an important area, such as this, in accordance with EU directives. Over two years, there was a draft of this law on public procurement, but the previous government had no time for such system law, and other anti-corruption bodies were neglected. In the previous period, there have been cases, which are not secretive, that certain ministers have put pressure on the Commission for the Protection of Vendors, followed by the resignation of the President of the Commission, which is a classic abuse of the official position. The SPS-JS parliamentary group advocates an orderly system in the field of public procurement, control of the spending of state money, and this is particularly necessary at this specific economic moment for the whole world and thus for Serbia. The government's determination to deal with the problem of corruption is obvious right through a set of laws in this area that have been passed and will be brought in the next period. Seeking to improve individual members of this bill, the Socialist Party of Serbia has submitted a number of amendments that essentially concern the protection of workers' rights and the avoidance of opportunities for workers to be collateral damage in each process. Also, we have submitted a number of amendments which technically, but also essentially improves the proposal for this law. We hope for these reasons our amendments will be accepted, because they are aimed at improving this law. The SPS-JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support this proposal for a law on public procurement.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7110	Thank you, Mr. Radenkovic. A representative of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Bojan Mladenovic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7111	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, citizens of Serbia, the government that came after the parliamentary elections is, above all, an unnaturally interesting government. If their party interest was most important, they showed in the negotiations, in the struggle to get as many resolutions as possible. It was important for them to take the party people home, and they didn't care if they knew they were doing the job they were entrusted with. The same frames simply go from resor to resort, depending on which ministry their party has won in the new coalition agreement, as if they know everything about it. The government and the number of ministries are made according to the needs of the parties to employ their personnel. As the government was playing tricks on the formation of ministries, it is playing with both laws and institutions. A series of bad laws were in the previous period. The Serbian Radical Party wanted to make the Public Procurement Act better, so it submitted a large number of amendments, and the government gave a positive opinion, i.e. adopted several amendments, suggesting that the law is missing, poor, there are a lot of failures. The past period has been marked by a large number of malfeasances in public procurement. Public tenders are often placed on individuals who are politically similar, or who will later be reimbursed by funding expensive campaigns and whatever else is required of them. By installing the tender, they made them rich, powerful and influential; they call them tycoons, and I would call them thieves because it is a real and adequate name for them. How the government will fight corruption which is often represented in public procurement when its first man, Mirko Cvetkovic, was also the director of the State Privatisation Agency and the private consultant house "Ces Mekon", which the Agency often hired for consulting services in privatisation. His choice as prime minister means nothing more than to fight corruption and malfeasance. Over the past period, public procurement control mechanisms have not been established for the police and the military. All we can remember is the Serbia-Montenegro Ministry of Defence contracts, which have been concluded by the state-wide harmful contracts for the purchase of military equipment worth about 300m euros. This affair is about a large amount of money, and someone put some of that money in their pocket or made it possible for someone to do it to their own. Let's remember what the procurements were for the police who were scandalous, harmful to the state - the procurement of lighters, badges, shirts and other things. The Airport affair - coffee spoons paid at an incredible price of several thousand dinars, then chairs, ficuses and other furniture paid at ten times the real price. It must be put in the way of these purchases; these contracts destroy businesses, harm the state, and allow individuals to become illegally rich within a very short period of time. As regards public procurement, it must finally be prevented in Serbia from ordering goods or services: 1) to make a specification of goods or services so that they correspond to a particular bidder, 2) to incomplete information on conditions of purchase, 3) to take direct negotiations with only one bidder claiming that due to urgency they cannot conduct a tender, 4) to open the received tender before the deadline, 5) to take bribes. It must also be prevented that the donor is working in co-operation with the client in order to determine the price of the offer or possibly offer a bribe. This is the part where we have submitted, among other things, a very important amendment – when bribery occurs, a customer of goods or services must inform the Ministry of the Interior. It's not supposed to be like it was before, so somebody's offering bribes and nobody's getting punished for it. We've submitted an amendment that the orderer must inform the MAP that he's been offered a bribe, or that he's been threatened or something. It is important that all tenders be made public and that as many bidders as possible participate and that in time everyone be informed of the terms of the tender. Getting goods and services should be the best combination of price and quality. Opening an offer should always be public. Now I'm going to read you a few examples of how we've been malfeasanced in public procurement. I'll read to you first the report of the Department of Internal Control of 31. Ten. In 2005, a record of the financial business control carried out at the Belgrade High School of Central Railways. In 2004, he obtained groceries for the needs of the disciples from the following suppliers: "Stanković International", number of contracts 146, since 26 May 2003, for the delivery of meat and meat processing, which was completed indefinitely; "Almas DOO Belgrade", contract number 144, since 26 May 2003, for the delivery of other broad-use foods, which was also concluded on indefinite time; "Inline DOO Belgrade", contract number 338, from 9 December 2003, for the delivery of milk and milk products, without the date of validity; Sladjan Petrovic, Slanci, contract number 148, since 26 May 2003, for the delivery of seasonal fruit and vegetables, also concluded on indefinite time; "Sorab DOO Belgrade", contract number 336, as of 8 December 2003, no bread and no bread. All these contracts are closed indefinitely, which is contrary to the Public Procurement Act. Contracts must be concluded for the financial year, i.e. with the importance until 31 December of the current year. With regard to suppliers' accounts, number 1854 of 30 October 2004, 1903 of 6 November 2004 and 1041 of 19 April 2004, the comparison of the prices from the accounts and offers found that the prices in the invoices were more than those in the offer, with an oral explanation that Article 8. A price adjustment agreement according to the prices on the product market. What does Article 8 say? Article 8. The agreement states that the parties agree that the harmonisation of prices established in the accepted offer of the seller is in percentage line with product prices on the product market in the event of an increase or reduction of this price of 5%. What did we get here? We received that for milk (one litre) the price from the basic offer of 23 dinars, and that the price in the account was 25 dinars - an increase of 10%; yogurt - 35 dinars is the price from the basic offer, and the price in the account of 53 dinars, an increase of 55%; melted cheese - 46 dinars is the price in the account 68 dinar, an increase in price of 46%; margarine - from 98 to 120 dinars, 23%; a helmet - from 264 dinars to 290 dinars, 10% was raised; cheese - from 118 to 144 dinars, one species, and the other to 165 dinars, or there is an increase in price from 20% to 40%, and the contract says that there is no higher than 5%. Furthermore, the same with regard to the House of Students, an insight into the accounts of 846 of 7 December 2004 and of 22 December 2004, compared the prices from the accounts and offers found that the prices in the account were more than those in the contract offer and that no payment deadline of 45 days was respected. Again we have an example: lemon syrup went from 105 dinars to 126 dinars, there was an increase of 20%; "Eurocreme" - from 226 to 260, an increase of 15%; mustard - from 80 to 100 dinars, an increase of 25%; chocolate pudding - from 76 to 108, an increase of 42%; vanilla pudding - from 76 to 102 dinars, 53%, and so on, that I don't read all the way to the end. The analysis of the existing situation found that there was an increase in prices compared to the basic offer, on the basis of which the contract was signed. It was also found that the payment was made contrary to the offer and contract. Not respected members of the 7th and 9th contracts, number 144 since 26 May 2003, which regulates the price and period of payment. The last example from this school, also acquisitions: June but - price from the offer 250 dinars, and the price in the account is 370, there is an increase of 47%; Hamburg bacon - from 228 dinars to 368, an increase of even 61%; a sausage - from 166 to 260, 57%; a liver pork - from 120 to 145 dinars, an increase of 20%; chicken meat - from 120 dinars to 170 dinars, there was an increase of 40%. In the light of the documentation presented, it has been established that there are no written requests from the supplier for price correction and contract annexes which establish a new price. It was found that there was a percentage increase in prices relative to the basic offer, and the payment was made contrary to the offer and contract. You can see that these prices, per kilogram, aren't very high, but when you take into account the number and quantity, you get the multimillion dollars that have been embezzled in this case. We can see how malversion occurs by increasing prices more than once compared to a basic offer. This was one way of making public procurement big malfeasances. The budgetary inspection and audit sector, the Budgetary Control Department, the minutes from 18 January 2008 on the law enforcement control carried out in the field of material and financial operations, the dedicated and legal use of budgetary resources for the period from 1 January 2006 to the day of control, as well as the verification of allegations at the request of 401 etc. since 18 May 2006 at the Law-Birotechnical School "9 May", i.e. now the new title is Law-Business School. Now we'll see how the public procurement malfeasances have taken place. Control was performed over a period of 18. Seven. In 2007, by 15 January 2008, with interruptions, in the premises of a controlled school. That's where the public procurement was made. The first was the purchase of excursion services in 2006 for school 2006/2007. A year. There's been a series of irregularities within this public procurement, and I'm going to give you just a few. First of all, the contracting authority started the procurement procedure, although the procurement did not provide for a public procurement plan for 2006, because it did not bring it in, which is contrary to Article 24(1). Public procurement laws. No decision was taken to initiate the procurement procedure, contrary to Article 25(1) and (2). Public procurement laws. Then, a public call was not issued in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", which is contrary to Article 69(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law, and with regard to Article 72(1) of the same Act. Then, the competition documentation does not contain all the elements prescribed for the competition documentation in the open procedure: the contract model, the form, the invoices with the instructions to be completed, which is contrary to Article 27(3). Law and Article 2. Regulation on mandatory elements of competition documentation in public procurement procedures, etc. There's a lot of these irregularities, and I've only listed a couple. The same school runs public procurement chairs in 2006. I'll also give you a series of irregularities within this public procurement. First of all, the purchaser did not provide for a public procurement plan for 2006, because he neither brought it nor the financial plan for 2006, a request for the purchase of equipment, which is contrary to Article 24(1). Public procurement laws. No decision has been taken to initiate the retail procurement procedure, contrary to Article 25(1). Public procurement law, Article 37. Budgetary system law and Article 3. It's a rule book. No competitive documentation is drawn up, which is contrary to Article 5. It's a rule book. In addition to tenders, the tenderers did not provide evidence of compliance with the conditions for the subject of procurement: a copy of the court or other register, a confirmation of the competent authority keeping records of the authorisations issued for the performance of the relevant activity and the name of the person authorised for contact, contrary to Article 8. It's a rule book. Furthermore, the opening records do not contain the number under which the tenders are listed, the names of the tenderers, etc. The third purchase at this school, which also had a lot of malfeasance, was the purchase of a computer for the banking office in 2006. The following irregularities have been identified: the contracting authority has started the procurement procedure, although it has not adopted a public procurement plan for 2006, which is contrary to Article 24(1). Public procurement law and Article 37 Budgetary system law. The decision to initiate the procedure does not specify the regular number of public procurements, contrary to Article 25(1) of the Public Procurement Act, Article 37. Law on the budgetary system and Article 3(1) of the first indent of Article 1 Regulation, etc. The fourth purchase was the procurement of painting services in 2007, where there were also a number of irregularities. The contracting authority started the procurement procedure even though the procurement was not fully envisaged by the public procurement plan, nor in the financial plan for 2007, acting contrary to Article 24(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Public procurement law and Article 37 Budgetary system law. It is also not a report on the award of public procurement contracts, contrary to Article 81(1) and (2). Public procurement laws. The procurement of additional works by the contracting authorities may also be considered to be an amendment to the competition documentation, contrary to Article 27(1) and Article 29(7). Public procurement laws. We can only see on the case of a school to which there is malfeasance in public procurement. There were irregularities everywhere. At the beginning of the field trip, it continued through the purchase of chairs and computers, and ended with painting services. Here, I'll tell you a few sentences about how there's been a disturbance in public procurement in the Starship Community. According to the budget inspection, the "yellow" management of the Starship Municipality found no respect for the Public Procurement Act. So the works on the arrangement of the municipality, whose value ranged from 1,000 to 10,000 thousand dinars, were allocated in an illegal manner, without a tender, while certain millions of invoices were paid to companies with which the municipality had no contract at all. According to the budget inspection, almost all purchases of goods and services financed by the Zvezda municipality since 2004 have been made past the execution of the tender, regardless of whether it was small or high-value purchase. For example, the cost of preserving the environment in 2004 amounted to 11.9 million dinars. The inspection by means of a random sample made an insight into the individual costs that the team had in connection with the municipal budget and an absolute Javezlu was discovered. 900,000 dinars were paid to organize 11 children's playgrounds for the company "Marathon" DOO from Mačvanska Mitrovica. Then, the same company was paid an amount of 2.6 million dinars to edit green areas at 16 locations. Also, the municipality has paid 470,000 dinars for building support walls on the sports field in Bosutska Street on Zvezda company "Ceraprom" from Belgrade. On the basis of these three expenditures, whose value exceeds four million, the budgetary inspector found that the municipal authorities were obliged to implement public procurement of high value, which was not done. Further control of public procurement by the budget inspection found that the municipality of Zveztar paid for works from the budget in 2004 on the roof of the municipal administration building. The initial value of the contracted works with the Belgrade-based Triumfall company was 950. Thousands of dinars, but the works, with sales taxes, are paid at 1,200,000 dinars. Apparently, for these papers, there is a panel record on the selection of the most favourable bidder - Triumfall companies, whose offer has been considered in competition with three other offers. However, the inspection found that these works required a high-value tender, in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and the 2004 Budget Law, because the value of the works exceeds a million dinars, which the municipal government did not do. The exact same case took place during the recovery of the Big Wet Lug Meat Community building. The value of the works was 1,200,000 dinars, with sales taxes, and the job was illegally allocated to Belgrade's "Productioninvest" company. As for the purchase of office materials for the purposes of the operation of the Municipality of Zvezda in 2004, total expenditure on this basis was recorded at 4.7 million dinars. The budget inspection found that no high-value procurement procedure was implemented for the purchase of office materials, although the total value of the annual purchase exceeds a million dinars, which is defined by the Budget Law as a limit. One of the few and fewer successful tenders that the democratic government has conducted, or at least tried to conduct, is a tender for the purchase of computers and computer equipment. Namely, for the needs of the municipal administration in May 2004, the purchase of 36 computers and six laser printers was carried out. According to a report drawn up by the Public Procurement Commission, the most favourable bidder in the tender was "Mega" from Belgrade with a bid of 1.7m dinars, without sales taxes. With this bidder, the Municipal Administration of the Municipality of Zvezda concluded a procurement contract that was immediately implemented at the contract price. However, the inspection found that the public invitation to the tender, which was published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", was illegal because it did not contain all the criteria by which the most favourable offer was later hit and evaluated. In addition, it was found that in 2004, additional computer equipment of 850,000 dinars was purchased from the same company, for which no public procurement procedure was carried out at all, according to the law... (President: Time. I'm bringing the end. There's a whole series of cases of malfeasance here. I listed only a few irregularities to the citizens of Serbia and a few examples of thieving events that occurred in completely different places: in the military, militia, at the airport, the home of students, at school, in the municipality. There have been severe irregularities in public procurement everywhere. (President: Will you bring the end, please, speak two minutes longer. Here, I'm done. The government and ministers involved in a series of malfeasances will not be able to fight, nor will they seek to reduce malfeasance in public procurement because it does not suit them.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7112	I will now give my word to the elected MPs, first Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7113	Happy family. We needed this law for the simple reason that it is European practice and European value. It is not corruption in public procurement Serbian fiction and Serbian matter. She just got some creative interpretations, but other countries, Western countries and countries we want to get close to, have problems with this. It's just, it's a big challenge to spend other people's money. (President: I'm sorry, sir I'll stay, just to ask my fellow MPs by the door to be a little quieter, or maybe to change the location for a little while. I thought of them when I said it was a happy group, but anyway, Chad provided this smoking salon, just to make the buffet work, so it'll be nice. In the West, regulations governing public procurement are becoming more complicated and more complicated just to avoid corruption and to destimulate and intend to get into it. I don't know how much you know, in some countries public procurement has become so complex that ordinary companies, normal businesses dealing with business, and they want to participate in the country's bids, are no longer able to follow those regulations. Companies who are able to prepare documentation for public procurement were specialized. We are still far from that practice, but this law is also a shift compared to that of our first one in 2001. In principle, I will look only at four segments of this law, which we in the LDP think can be better. Number one, that's the secret to procurement. We think that the greatest abuses in the past time in public procurement have occurred just as far as the secrecy of purchases are concerned. It is very vague that member who regulates it and who allows some purchases to be declared secret. We know that, first of all, it was military and police, but then every procurement became a secret in the police department, because to God, if you get socks, so it goes to a public ad, then you'll find out how many socks to get, so you can find out how many cops there are or how many police are doing, or how many haba stockings. Then it went to its opposite, that everything became a secret, and secret procurement was the source of corruption. So we think that this solution from article 7, which remains quite rubbery, vague and subject to different interpretations, should be given its own particularization. We think that secrecy must be graduated, some regulation must be passed, a special regulation that would regulate certain types of procurement to be classified. That would be just the first step. The second step should be the existence of the authority of a particular person to declare specific procurement confidential. This way everything can be secret. Let's say, the other day, Friday, in the village of Tasevo in the municipality of Prepolje Rasim Ljajic, after sharing packages he did not get on public procurement, fighting for voters, he said he knows where Ratko Mladic is and how he will soon arrest him, as Radovan Karadzic arrested him. Some have been asked here for days from the pay phone to determine who arrested Radovan Karadzic, and now we know – Rasim Ljajic. Let's say, imagine now that his Ministry of Labour is publishing the public procurement of handcuffs. Then Mladic could probably read it, so he realizes that he has decided to arrest him, so he can hide even deeper and that procurement could be declared a secret. But it's not the point. It can be declared secret and what was distributed in packages: shoes, uniforms, powder, etc. That's why I think we should define here who declares that something is secret and that's why he declares it. We think, let's say, that some kind of formulation that would specify secrecy could help the state and the taxpayers, that people who decide to purchase less would come under attack to declare it all secret and that it ends in four eyes. So we think maybe there's a need to define exactly how something can become a secret. The second segment that is very important for the transparency of public procurement – so secrecy and transparency are, on condition, some target that we are targeting – is the publication of the need for public procurement not only in the newspapers and not just, as it is formulated here in law, on the Internet. We think that there should be everything on that web portal; not only should the need for public procurement be published, but all those who participate, and those who do not participate, can follow who answered, what he has submitted from the documentation and what are the criteria. Not only that, we think that everything that's about the competition has to be on the Internet. This will prevent the possibility of manipulation. After all, this is what we want to be in countries where we want to be. Some solution has been given here that those who lost in the public procurement contest can request documents in writing, so within two days to be delivered to them, within two days to seek, so I don't know, seven days to deliver them... However, if all of this hangs on the Internet, everyone will have an insight, and those who participated, so they think they lost or want to know why they lost, so next time they don't lose, and other people or companies who are about to participate in some public procurement. So we think that some more concrete solutions related to the transparency and clarity of the process itself when it comes to, let me say, new technology. The internet can improve this law. The third area that attracted our attention, these are nevertheless the elements of the criteria and the methodology for the award of weights. We think the proposed solution can be fixed. Why? We all know that in practice there have been situations where an orderer artificially inflating some elements and assigning disproportionately many points can favor one of the bidders at the expense of another. We believe that these elements of the criteria and methodologies for the award of weights must be defined in such a way as to ensure that the principle of economic and efficient use of public funds is applied. So, so far, and in this solution, it's pretty much given the freedom of one who determines the tender that some of the elements of the offer favor points that it assigns to it in relation to others. Let's imagine, for example, that someone who believes that 100 days is enough because the orderer said that 100 days is a perfectly acceptable deadline can write that they will deliver in 90 days; someone who knows the information will write that they will deliver in two days and thus get disproportionately many points on the deadline and can then save, say, a price, that they will give a higher price. In one sentence, if this is related to the principle of economicism and efficient use of public funds and a little more concrete, then there will be less room for, conditionally speaking, favouring some of its firms in this way. We understand some need to favour domestic economy; in the end, what has been retained so far -- if the domestic bidder is more expensive than 20%, it has an advantage over the foreign one, but we point to an agreement that we have ratified together, a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In Article 76, paragraph 4, we have taken that obligation to reduce this favouring of domestic bidders over time to fully equalise domestic and foreign bidders at the end of the fourth or fifth years of application of the Agreement. I would like to remind you that in this position of Article 76, we have made a commitment that over the past five years Serbia gradually reduces the advantage it gives to the companies established in Serbia, so that the advantage does not exceed the level of 15% by the end of the second year of implementation of the Agreement, 10% by the end of the third year of application of the Agreement, five to the end of the fourth year of application of the Agreement. There's no such thing in the law. So this law is not in line with the Stabilisation Agreement. Whether we're going to pass some other law in a year, I don't know, but I think if we ratified this we should meet that condition of the Agreement. After all, the government has decided on a unilateral application of the Agreement and we do not see why this is not built into this legal solution. On the one hand, yes, it stands for favoring the domestic economy. It is now protected by the fact that the offer can be worse by one-fifth than the party, but in principle, if we are to do so, strengthening competitiveness and spending money on taxpayers must lead to the service the state orders, or the product, costing taxpayers less. If the stranger is better, in five years, when they are equal, it will be in favour of Serbian citizens because it will pay less; it will ultimately be in favour of Serbia's economy because it will have to compete, improve and become more competitive. These are our principled objections in these four areas. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to submit any concrete amendments. We will be free to hand over the ruling majority of what we have said in the form of amendments. If it is a mutual desire to fix the law, this failure (which we may be responsible for, but not just us but others) can be removed to the benefit of all, because it is in everyone's best interest that public procurement and spending of budget money be regulated with as little corruption as possible. We know that we are when it comes to corruption in a very high place. When it comes to health care, let me remind you, according to the World Bank, we are the fourth country at the level of corruption. What I can finally say is – okay, we're going to pass the law, but if we're going to apply it, that's what might be more important. We meet some criteria by adopting the law, but is it essential that such a law, which has taken decisions from others who have passed this process before, can be effectively applied in the party state? We'll see about that from practice. So far experience doesn't give us much room for optimism. We're for this law. We're about to be better in these segments, but we think corruption is something like temperature -- corruption is not a disease, corruption is a symptom. A party state is a disease that produces corruption. He can't fight the disease by taking off the temperature. In the long run, in general, the best law on public procurement will not produce results unless we break down the rule of law. In essence, this law on public procurement is in some way a message that the rule of law must give way to a normal state, in which it will not be - I tell you to me; in which parties will not be parallel employment institutions, in which the parties that are in power (and the government is the source of corruption, not the opposition) will not be a means to favour one's companies. We know that in previous governments there were lists made in the cabinets of prime ministers, lists of companies that could pass on public procurement and cannot pass. We hope that past is behind us. We hope this law will fix, but we are sure that the biggest pains in this country, corruption, will not be released until we have broken down that party country that we unfortunately inherited from the one-party. Now that she's multipartial, it's not at all any plus when it comes to corruption; it's even a minus because the communists, to be fair, had one limit of negative selection over which they didn't cross because it would then be harmful to them. Since the murder of Djindjic and the formation of the government, the first government of Vojislav Kostunica, where the principle of feudalisation has been introduced, negative selection has been allowed in depth and no one can interfere with what the party that has received funding, banks, airports or JAT is doing there anymore. So we are in principle for this law. We will try to fix it, but we hope that the development of our society will contribute to the lack of corruption, not because it is a good law, but because we do not have a party state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7114	Thank you. MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7115	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll try to say a few words about the law on public procurement. First of all, I want to say that the Serbian Progressive Party, or the MP group of Tomislav Nikolic, is not satisfied with this bill, that the ruling majority had enough time to recognise everything that was bad in the previous law and that the law had to be significantly more comprehensive. The level of corruption in Serbia is extremely high and does not fall from year to year and the law on public procurement, unless it is part of a broader strategy, cannot solve the problem of corruption in itself. When it comes to corruption, the biggest problem in Serbia is, above all, the state, the government; a country that is a force above society, a state that is an employer and an investor. We have a situation that in the country between 40% and 45% the price dictates the state, so they're directly under state control. Also, close to 50% of gross domestic products are under state control and this is the source of corruption. The virus of corruption comes out of state institutions, comes out of state authorities, and the carriers of corruption are state officials and state officials. What the government, which the DOS parties have not provided since 2000, is that we have as few countries and as many markets as possible. The fact is that today, unfortunately, we have a partial state and that is the basis and basis on which corruption is strengthened in Serbia today. As far as the public procurement law itself is concerned, he doesn't control what it seems to be, most importantly, the planning of public procurement. There is no control, nor is there any word in the law about it, but there is no control over the implementation of public procurement contracts, or contracts with the contracting authorities. The fact is that this area should, above all, be dealt with by the State Auditing Institution. But for three years now, this authority has not found it appropriate to make sure that we get one competent State Auditing Institution to work for the benefit of Serbian citizens and that would allow us MPs to have a better insight into the functioning of all the institutions of the system. Therefore, without the State Auditing Institution, this law does not in itself mean much. As far as the law is concerned, I would taxively list some basic problems, something basic that has interfered with the MP's group Tomislav Nikolic, SNS, which is in Article 7, which refers to confidential acquisitions. I would totally agree with a colleague who spoke before me. There's no word on how to handle confidential procurement. The MUP, the military, the BIA have the ability to decide what are classified purchases and also to purchase. There is no control of these procurements, and it is necessary to include either the Ministry or the Security Committee. And more serious things, the Republic Assembly, or the Security Committee, can control and public procurement in police, military and BIA. We believe that in Article 24, which relates to the release from the publication of public procurement, there is an extremely large amount of room for manipulation and abuse when it comes to new services representing repetition. This is below point 8). I think it was necessary to rank in article 44, because Article 44, where extensive documentation is required for relatively small purchases, is left with the possibility of abuse. In particular, it is problematic to demonstrate financial and business capacities, technical and personnel capacities, and the client has the opportunity to determine a large number of additional conditions which should be much more fully defined in this law. As for Article 45, proving that the conditions are met also leaves a lot of opportunities for abuse, and this is another area that should have been more fully regulated in this law in order to prevent any abuse. We think it's a very badly-placed article in 47 relating to negative references. In Article 47, in the first position under point 4 you have even that you can give up public procurement, that is, that the contracting authority may challenge the tenderer if there is a supervisory authority’s report on the works carried out in some previous procurement. I think things are too wide. As for the treatment of domestic bidders, I think what is offered in the law is about 20% of the advantage of the score, compared to the price offered, a good solution at this point, that will mean a lot to the domestic economy, but also that it is insufficient and that it is not developed in the law. What we from the SNS recognized, it is, above all, that Article 9 leaves the possibility that the client may require the bidder to engage a number of domestic subcontractors in public procurement. We believe not that he can, but that the client must ensure that 50% of the subcontractors are domestic subcontractors and that this is very important for the development of the domestic economy. The domestic economy is in difficult conditions anyway. If we take into account that neither this law nor any other legal solutions have allowed our economy to take place on a foreign market, it has any advantage in its competition, and that you have left the possibility of applying the provisions treated by the CEFTA agreement, we believe that, if not in another way, then, under this law, we should leave for the incentive of our companies on foreign markets. What is very bad about the state's attitude towards the Serbian economy is the fact that the state today in Serbia is a monopolies. The State dictates the conditions under which suppliers, sellers of goods and services must enter into contracts, and Article 31, for example, prescribes the amount of public procurement funds above which the contracting authority is obliged to request bank guarantees. (President: Mr Saviæu, Mr Jojic, please allow us to hear the speaker. The Lords did not learn anything. A few days ago, they had the opportunity to understand that this protest was going to reflect on the ratings, but they obviously don't care about voters, they don't care about the hundreds of decent radicals fighting for censorship at the municipal level, they care about their parliamentary mandates, at least when it comes to gentlemen from the presidential college. To move on to what I'm here for. So, what I'd like to say is that it's very important that, apart from the state, when a contract is concluded, bidders are protected. It is therefore necessary for the law to regulate that they are obliged, i.e. by the state, that public undertakings are obliged to issue security instruments to suppliers, or contractors. Today we are in a situation where the state pays whenever it wants, whoever it wants, to create the possibility of major abuses, to have suppliers who have the advantage of paying and thus to destimulate competition with suppliers. The state doesn't pay for a penalty when it's late to pay. The state thus blocks the trade assets of the economy, pushes them into liquidity, pushes them into a situation to take expensive loans. After all, it also raises the prices of goods and services offered by suppliers to public enterprises and, in all, affects the general incompetence of the state economy. We think it is a phenomenon that is very dangerous for the future of the Serbian economy, and that this way and through this legislative project, it was necessary for this area to be defined. In the end, I would like to say that, unfortunately, the criminal provisions given at the end of the law in Article 122 are not adequate, that the fines between 20,000 and 50,000 for responsible persons are inappropriate, I would say even funny, since it is often about the amounts of public procurement measured in millions of euros. It is unfortunate that this legislative proposal does not define the purchase of small value, but is left to the economy ministry. It is also regrettable that we do not have the criteria for education of public procurement commissions. Well, I guess that's some basic stuff and that's what's supposed to be found in this bill. Therefore, the Serbian Progressive Party, the Progressive Group of Serbia's Tomislav Nikolic, given the number of complaints I have now made and which will be presented by other my colleagues, will not be able to vote in favour of the legislative proposal. We call once again on you to make more serious approaches to the application of these laws when you are preparing laws that touch the area of corruption and, above all, to edit the State Audit Institute urgently. Thank you. (SRS emissaries banging on benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7116	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7117	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you would have to see into the content and essence of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You have seen for yourself that at one point it was difficult for you not to say vomit, when the predecessor from this pay phone for crime criticised the government of the Republic of Serbia. If there's anyone who could be the last person to call for a crime, then it's this small group of outlaws and purgatory. They're accusing you of crime. Imagine that moral set: steal, everyone knows that they stole mandates; you keep them, and they accuse you of crimes in public procurement. It's like you got them in some kind of public procurement tender. You know, when Americans take matters into their own hands and an Englishman wants to compete for the post of deputy foreign minister, then a gift-mar is made with such expendable goods in Serbia. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you have guaranteed your place in history because as president of the National Assembly you have succeeded in what no one has succeeded – you have formed your own party, which you must suffer here. Look at the shape of that tape. Usually, in Serbia, a beautiful saying is true, as it is said – what is smart is ashamed, the fool is proud. You just had a chance... (President: Mr. Krasic, please, the term you have spoken is not in line with the tendency of all of us to take care of dignity. ) It is a folk saying, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. I know you're holding on to folk creation. National creation is not only a kind of wit but also a psychic, accumulated for hundreds and hundreds of generations, and one rule of conduct was made out of it. The modern version of the same rule is – you spit on it, and he thinks it's raining. It's new now, which young people understand. This is really inadmissible. Be careful, the thief criticises the government of the Republic of Serbia. Everyone in Serbia and abroad knows that mandates have been stolen, mandates should be returned. You didn't notice before, I said, someone's been charged, someone's been sued for 68 million dinars, due to an SRS account blockade. They applaud as if it were a great success. They're proud of their crime because they think you have to protect them. I don't have any problems. Let the mandates be returned to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who voted for the SRS. Let's get it in the process, see who stole it, how much he stole it, etc. Everyone who stole went to that group, to Smoki's: he, and the financial director, and the cashier, the dactylographer. How come everybody escapes? How's that? And the secretary, and the computer, everything went there. Look what the American warrant means. (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... An American warrant to assist in the attempted murder of Vojislav Seselj. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you may find it interesting the way I explain this to you, but you see for yourself, crime is spreading. You can see that they find themselves properly popular, coming out here to command you. Imagine, Antic accused the Republic of Serbia of stealing! (President: Mr Krasic, I allow you to know your party comrades much better, but do not attribute to me qualities that I do not really have in the formation of new groups, political groups etc.) I work for one single political option, and that's the SPS. Here you go. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you were wrong again. Your mistake is to interpret the Rules of Procedure, whether someone needs to know or not. I know you knew Banet Ivkovic, and I know you were disgusted by what he did. Probably even now, I know it's getting dark in your eyes now when you think you should put up with criticism, but you have to, Boris Tadic is not in the state. He's not in the country, he's abroad. He's an alpha and omega of this illegal state. You're his deputy, for God's sake, I have to say, that's the situation. It's illegal. Look, they're encouraged by you passively treating something called crime and then taking on other dimensions. They get strength and think it's a rule of conduct and insinuate that it's a rule of conduct that makes Sredkovic a poor man guilty, should listen to him as he tells him – you in the government steal. And the government is watching him. It's something amazing. That's absolutely amazing! Once upon a time there was – who should decide on privatisation, boss or horse? This was a hypothetical issue when adopting the Privatisation Act at the expense of social property and funds. Does a social enterprise need to decide whether to privatize because it's a slave? Now we've got a bit of a weird, shifted configuration: you've made it possible for the goods to be stolen and now the goods are calling you. I don't have any problem if you can take humiliation from guys like this. That's your problem, but I invite you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, to apply the Constitution, the law. As instructed by you, we have initiated all possible court proceedings. It's all clear. The man says they have resignations, I lose them, I don't give them to anyone, he holds my mandates, it's mine, I don't give anything, that's what the Americans told me. There's a mandate in his pocket, so there's a mandate there, etc. You're putting up with it. You're counting on us to do some damage. You've probably done some damage, but the damage you're doing to the state is far greater. You undo the Constitution, you undo the law, and that grain of morality you must have trampled. Remember, whoever plantes pumpkins with the devil, he's got his head peeled off. I read to you last time a man doesn't keep his oaths. Who can trust that man? There was a Tabakovic this morning; well, if it hadn't been for Vojislav Seselj, she would have died. He hired her, let her get an apartment. She turned around and left. Where? Why? It's an oath. They've been given mandates. So who would give them mandates?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7118	Time, Mr. Krassic. National MP Djordje Milicevic, SPS - JS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7119	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after five years on the agenda, came up with a draft law on public procurement and again with a proposal to be adopted by an urgent procedure, as well as during the previous adoption. The basic reason for its adoption lies in the fact that it is necessary to speed up the accession process to the European Union, and should be kept in mind that the European Union Commission is preparing a report on Serbia's progress in the EU accession process. I think that no one disputes these reasons and needs of harmonising the legal rules that create conditions for faster entry and accession to the European Union. What is controversial and negative lies in the fact that the first Public Procurement Act was brought five years ago with the same reasons that are listed again. Does this mean that we lost five years or was the law passed bad or not in line with the requirements and regulations of EU legislation? Cited as a revolutionary, anti-corruption and system law, he has suffered many changes and additions over the past five years. Practice and experience in implementing this law should be made, as well as an assessment of whether problems have arisen in the implementation of this law or whether there is a lack of the provisions themselves. My assessment is that changes are mostly made to ad hoc, to adjust public procurement procedures for certain jobs. Such practice has totally annulled basic, original veggies and reasons for law-making. All previous experiences and changes have contributed to the fact that the law loses its anti-corruption importance and control of public revenue, particularly in large-scale transactions with significant resources. In the light of the law, it is reiterated that this law creates an environment for the operation of anti-corruption authorities in the operations of controlling the spending of funds and ensuring the financial discipline of state authorities, organisations and other legal entities which are obliged to apply the prescribed procedures. The first question is: does this apply to state authorities or to individuals only in them? What quality and assessment will the EU go to us if we state that the authorities in the country did not comply with the legal rules in the previous period? The most media hajka during the past period has been directed towards individuals and state institutions in terms of public procurement of high value to state authorities and public enterprises. The question arises whether the adoption of this law continues with this practice, which could be supported by the following: this law takes effect 60 days from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", which seems to be a long time. Bringing sublaws will take time, and you can't stop life and public procurement. All public procurements, most of them, will be implemented under the old law and with all the shortcomings as before; or public procurement will only be started before the new law enters into force by implementing them according to the rules and procedures laid down by the old law. We therefore have a concrete proposal, if we want an effective law and the work of state authorities and organisations, to implement all public procurement according to plan and means for 2009 under the new law. The most important chapter refers to the basic principles and rules of public procurement, which mainly create public procurement, and the public procurement process itself is a more procedural and technical issue. I must conclude that there are the most problems and abuses in the principle of equality between bidders and competition and anti-corruption rules. Closing the circle of bidders by the already known subject who will get a job with several other service offers is, I think, a detached rule in implementing small-value public procurement. Public procurement is by name only. Article 26 of the law limits this procurement to an estimated value at an annual level less than the value set out in the law governing the annual budget of the Republic of Serbia. If we take the information that since 2008, this limit is 2.7 million dinars and the number of contractors that implement them, we can come up with a significant amount of savings and prevention of corruption. This area is mentioned only in one member of the law and has been authorised by the Minister in charge of finance affairs to regulate the retail procurement process by a special act. If this is added to the fact that the contracting authorities will also regulate the process of low-value public procurement, which has been a practice so far, I think it will be under-controlled and transparency that we do not talk, since there is no legal obligation to public advertising. For the legality and prevention of corruption, Article 19 is important. It's a bill of law. I don't think that's a good solution, that the client himself decides to reject the offer, if he has any knowledge of bribery, gift or threats to the members of the commission. It's like that people's saying, "When you're sued, you're judged." Since the customer's responsible face brings a solution to the formation of a commission and determines the composition, what if they are employees who are loyal to it? There is a possibility that he may reject the most favourable unwanted bidder only with evidence, confirmation by members of the commission that someone has threatened or referred to them in an abusive manner, which is also decided by the contracting authority. If the client has already agreed and pre-determined the bidder, everything will do to implement it and the innocent will suffer, and the public procurement will be legal but, unfortunately, set up. My suggestion, however, is that it must be decided by someone outside the authority of the client. We suggest that it be a body or a republican Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedure. We also believe that in Article 98, which regulates the status of public procurement officers as a contracting authority, it should be provided that the same for its work corresponds to the Public Procurement Administration, which also gives him a certificate of public procurement officers and which can deny it a certificate if it does not work under the law. The above-mentioned proposals should indeed be seriously considered and joined in the experience of the previous period, so that in five years we do not realize that we should pass the same law. We also believe that all suggestions and remarks should be seriously considered so that we do not change and adjust the same ad hoc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7120	Thank you. National MP Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word, please. Let MP Zoran Bortic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr Minister, I will first say several important things relating to the Public Procurement Act, which is still valid and which, from the moment it was brought in in 2002, has shown many shortcomings. There have been many concerns about its application and many have just recognised one of the culprits for such a high degree of corruption in the country, and I must remind you that Serbia is on the 180-nation list with a 3.4 index placed in a place that is very infamous, which is 85. The least we expected from the new bill, both the DSS and the citizens, is to actually solve the problem of corruption, at least in that domain as far as this law can. At the same time, we expected a more efficient and faster procedure of public procurement to be carried out, to protect the rights of all parties in the process itself. We expected to eliminate the problem of obvious cohesion between individual members in the old law. We expected to eliminate the problem of indiscretion, the inaccuracy of certain members of the old law. And, what we expected most, I am talking about a large number of people dealing with various matters in the area of this law, first we expected control of confidential procurement and very complicated so far, but much better co-operation of the Commission for the Protection of Rights with other authorities in Serbia. What we got as a bill was a very detailed analysis, as a parliamentary group, and we saw that it was quite repacked in the previous law. However, he has removed some small misunderstandings, although many of the indiscretions I am about to point out are left. First of all, I want to start by saying that the definition of "debt at the offered price" is completely incorrect. In theory, they say that discount on the offered price is not a method of pricing, as it is said here, but is part of the price the bidder will not ask if the client orders goods, services or works from several parties of a public procurement issue. This is what it says in theory. I can place a similar remark on the definition of electronic offers, as well as electronic bids. In defining this idea, you have the right definition given in one part, and the other sets the conditions under which the electronic offer is correct, let's say, when the offer can be submitted. I think I need to clarify these things a little bit. In particular, this applies to electronic bidding, because I have to remind you, this is going to be a big problem when they bring in sublegal acts because this is very important. I want to point out to you what is the foothold of the European Parliament and the Council of Europe's directives. Furthermore, the problem can arise with the regulation of exceptions, because the law must propose a more detailed regulation of exceptions. There are several very important principles that I can implement under several elements. One of these is, as you say, transparency, and I'd like to say, public procurement procedures. That's a very important detail, too, if I could say a detail at all, that could prevent abuse. In the proposal that you made here, in Article 10, you did not cover all the important aspects of the transparency of the procedure. Let's just say, you're talking about where and how you can, under what conditions, publish a tender, but don't say what I think is important for all interested citizens to know; no matter what they do, first of all, I'd like to apostrophe the press, they have to get information on what conditions a tender is going on, what is it like and how it is with that tender. If that does not appear, you are violating a law that has been passed in this congregation, which is the law on the availability of information. Then, another principled story, that's the urgency of procurement. I think it's very important that I draw attention to it, because it's actually a way around the law. This is the momentum of corruption that has so far had a terrible support in this previous law. If I were to tell you that I have in this material... I show this because of my colleagues and citizens, there are all the possible reasons why, for example, the urgency of procurement is being implemented and the law on public procurement is being bypassed. You see, for example, the reasons, and the value is 180 million: late received funds, late adoption of the business plan, mass respiratory infection, failed procedure, failure, epidemic of salmonella, termination of delivery due to termination of contract with the supplier, donor conditioned execution of works, facades endangering safety, roof leaks. Watch out for a reason. Then, the threat of normal hospital functioning, the necessary amount. Check this out: the open procedure failed and the fountain's working season began, emergency intervention to remove the haemarium on the sewer. So here you'll find so many reasons why you can make an incredibly good humorous show, but that's all about corruption, because in the procurement process, it's impossible to avoid what's important in the law, which is that the law is accurate and that we can say based on it -- it's impossible to avoid what are the provisions of the law. What is still very important and what DSS MPs point to is that so-called. confidentiality, i.e. confidential procurement. When we talk about classified procurement, it's mostly procurement we understand, military procurement, police, BIA, but I think it's very important that the law predicts there has to be a control body. Whether it will be the State Auditing House, whether it will be parliament, whether it will be who I don't know, can be talked about, but it is simply impossible (really, the values are enormously high) that the funds of Serbian citizens are being spent so that you have no idea where they are going and under what conditions they are leaving. Then what else is important? You should take a closer look at the part of the law relating to the references of the bidder. It simply seems to me that in the bill of law you provide the possibility that in the competitive documentation the client himself will determine the period that is important to him and refers to the references of the bidder. I think it's much smarter for the law to set a deadline and say, "Five years, ten years." It doesn't matter, you offer that deadline, but I think it's much more important that such a deadline exists than that of abuse. When I talk about the possibility of abuse, I mean corruption, first of all. You will very easily agree with someone to ask for 15 years to be offered references and you will give another man the opportunity to offer his terms, and you will not, so it seems to me that a more precise definition allows you not to favour anyone, that competition is indeed the right one. I think it's kind of a five-year deadline, but it's left for discussion. Furthermore, what is extremely complicated in the proposal of this law, and it has been in the previous one, is weighting, i.e. it is a process where points are given for certain elements of this contract. It seems to me that it's too complicated here and that we're going to get into a situation where we have a house that only deals with the preparation of competitive documentation, and I don't think Serbia really has any conditions for that right now. Most business firms aren't at that level to offer. That'll lead to you not having real competition, because whoever has a stronger firm will be in a position to offer you what you're looking for, and the rest won't be able to. Then, I understand the proposal's intention to partially favour domestic bidders, or suppliers of domestic goods, but it seems to me that this is not the best way, because it can happen to completely discourage foreign bidders, while at the same time putting our bidders in a position to relax, to have an initial advantage and to have reduced competition. It's not a healthy relationship, and I think we should reconsider these provisions. Given that it is necessary, it seems to me that a lot of administration in various instances is still opening up the possibility of a great manipulation and playful of legal provisions. That's one way to corruption. Let's say, what are we going to do about the disputed situation with regard to the origin of the goods or, say, the origin of the bidders? Now, one question regarding the Public Procurement Administration. I think it would be important to talk a little bit about it because I see that in the past law, and also in this proposal this administration is slowly dying, and it has also played an important role in the past. Let's say, look, these are just materials in one calendar year, all tenders that have been cancelled. This is the material provided by the Commission for the Protection of Rights. Not to read, I think it would be interesting to read which institutions most often violated this law and where procedures in general have been annulled. You won't believe it, but only when you look at the material from this one year you come to the conclusion that it is the story of world and European institutions that in Serbia the highest degree of corruption has health institutions and that the fourth in the world is a confirmed story. If you look at it, you'll see it's really true. If only the authority of the screening this material (which is really extensive), you will see that one third are various clinics, even the Ministry of Health on several occasions, so it is a very interesting material that you should look at. To get back to this Department of Public Procurement. I don't think the Public Procurement Administration has the capacity either in the previous law or in this law. Its capacities are very limited and they are an obstacle to the application of this law. It seems to me that when a system of internal and external checks is established, first and foremost through the functioning of the State Auditing Institution, which should be a basis for us in Parliament, but also for the state, this law can have those elements that you wanted and which I see as intentional through this bill. The interesting part, which was very interesting for DSS MPs, is the criminal provisions you provided for in the law. It's one very interesting thing because you don't offer that an individual person is responsible, as I would say, but you're talking about a legal person. Then we come up with a really funny situation... You may not understand me, but I'll try to explain what I'm talking about. I'm talking about, for example, that the bidder competed in a particular tender and that tender was kind of torn down; it was responsible for a person who broke the law, who tried to enforce the provisions of the law. That face has a name and a last name, it's a person who works for that company and who does the job. You don't punish that face. You leave it to punish the institution in which the person is doing it. Then we come to the fact that the money of the budget users, so every citizen of Serbia, is being re-infused into the same budget. Public enterprises have been punished, public enterprises have their own budget. That budget is actually the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So it's a completely ridiculous situation. It seems to me that it was necessary to find yourself in a law that was finally responsible for what was wrong. Well, to cut the short story, because there are other colleagues who would talk about it, I'll just say one thing. This is one small step in relation to what you have offered the previous law, but there are still many shortcomings that are seen in the inaccuracies and inaccuracies of the proposal. I think that's enough of what I said. So, this law, it seems to me, still remains controversial in all those elements in which it has been before. If amendments are not corrected, the law will not be a law that will regulate something in this country; there will continue to be a story about how we have passed a very good law, which should address the issue of corruption, and it will be the momentum of corruption. That's why the DSS won't vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7122	I thank Mrs. Markovic. The People's Messenger, Zoran Bortic, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people, Marina Toman, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7123	Honored presidents, respected ministers and government representatives, esteemed fellow MPs, the SPS-JS parliamentary group concluded that the existing Public Procurement Act, which was adopted in 2002, showed a number of shortcomings that need to be addressed. You know that the Public Procurement Act is an anti-corruption law, and that's why I don't want this opportunity to get into its details. My goal is to point to the basic elements that constitute the essence and essence of this law and, therefore, to the need for it to be passed. First, this law will allow for a more economical and efficient use of public funds. The funds will only be able to be used for the purposes that are in the contract, and the contract award process itself will be implemented at as little cost as possible. The purchases will be made under equal conditions for all participants in the procedure. This will lead to better and more efficient public consumption control. Secondly, the law will ensure better competition among bidders. This competition will not be limited. Unequal conditions and criteria in tender procedures cannot be used. In particular, it is necessary to highlight the open procedure when it comes to high-value purchases. The increase in competition will lead to lower prices and raise quality levels. All of this together will affect the development of the economy. In order to be more competitive, the bidder will have to increase the quality and reduce the price of its products, services or works. All this together leads to a free market and all those elements that such a market carries with it. Third, the law will allow the public in public procurement procedures. Public procurement ads will be made available to a wider range of interested bidders. Anyone who participates in the procurement process will have the opportunity to gain insight into the information contained in the offer of all participants in the procedure. Fourthly, the law will allow for the equality of bidders. In all phases of the procurement procedure, the contracting authority will be obliged to ensure the same position for all tenderers. In particular, it should be pointed out that bidders will not be able to discriminate either territorially, or in question, or personally. This means that any public procurement business can participate in the procedure and make the most favourable offer. These are, therefore, the principles on which a system of public procurement is based to avoid corruption. The law is complete. In a comprehensive and comprehensible way, it regulates the whole procurement process, from decision-making to the conclusion of the contract. To reach the contract, it will be necessary to pass through several phases of the process in which more persons will participate. The law stipulates that each bidder will be able to apply for the protection of his rights at any time during the procedure. This law will create an opportunity for public procurement to be opened not only to all bidders, but, more importantly, to the general public. This will in a direct way allow double control of the consumption of public funds and will contribute to a much safer work of the enforcement officers that will apply the law. Each commission, contracting authorities and persons participating in the public procurement process will know that their decisions will be able to repeal the second-degree bodies and that their actions are under the watchful eye of the public and the bidder. I would also like to point out in particular that this law will, in a comprehensive way, regulate and protect bidders, as well as the public interest protection process. Finally, this law, apart from having an anti-corruption role, is one of the conditions for speeding up the accession process to the European Union and will be one of the foundations of a fairer society.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7124	The word has a National MP, Marina Toman, and let Zoran Kasalovic be prepared. You're giving up, Zoran? All right. Then Mr. Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7125	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the rationality of public procurement must be seen as an integral part of the efficiency of budget spending. Unfortunately, public procurement is a source of corruption, perhaps at this time the number one in Serbia. It is precisely facts and reasons why this law should be amended. However, this proposed solution cannot change many of the things the law regulates. On the contrary, some of his provisions are just pointing to the opposite conclusion. When making amendments to this law, the SRS parliamentary group had to take care of some of its provisions and their application in practice, i.e. the extent to which they leave room for corruption and malfeasance. We have to face the fact and the reality that the existing law has largely been violated and abused by opening the door to corruption. One of the main issues raised is how to combat corruption in planning and prepare public procurement procedures. According to the finance ministry, between 2002 and 2006 positive developments were made in the area of public procurement and savings of $300,000. However, the reason why this fact cannot be accepted is that the Public Procurement Authority only accounts for this savings on the basis of the difference between planned and realised public procurement. This also contributes to the Public Procurement Administration's data to save in public enterprises a negative trend and that they were below average between 2005 and 2007. This is alarming, as in the overall value of public procurement in Serbia, public enterprises range from half to even two-thirds. Corruption also occurred in the stages of the realisation of contracts that were not sufficiently controlled by the competent authorities. The issue is gained on its importance and weight, taking into account the high value of public procurement, which last year, based on available data, amounted to 2 billion euros. However, the value of public procurement is estimated to be twice as high because a number of public procurement suppliers, around 10,000 of them, according to the Public Procurement Authority, do not deliver annual reports. Instead of applying a methodology for the preparation of public procurement plans, on the basis of which the contracting authority will make up its annual public procurement plans in due time, the level of public procurement is determined on the basis of the assessment of the contracting authorities and the competent ministry. When it comes to public procurement, there are two problems: insufficient effective application of controls and sanctioning violations of the law. Proposers announce that new legal solutions will also include some newspapers, reportedly be in line with European standards and will introduce new control mechanisms throughout the process. It has been announced that the State Auditing Institution will have better control of the bidder, whether what has been agreed is indeed delivered, i.e. to verify the quantity, type and quality of the supply items. The state audit institution would also have to control the regularity of the procedure, the enforcement of the Commission's decisions on the protection of rights, as well as the realisation of the contract, according to each agreed item. Control by the State Auditing Institution should cover the overall procurement process, start from the plan until the end of the implementation, however, here we face the fact that the State Auditing Institution is practically not working. The appropriate working conditions were never provided for her. We return to the beginning of the story, the law is passed to apply in practice, not to be a dead letter on paper. If we include certain provisions of this law in public procurement and the State Auditing Institution, which is established but not working, then all this and this whole story of amending the law is pointless. Yes, the SRS is in favour of resolving the chaotic situation in the public procurement sector, above all, to curb corruption, but we believe that the government has not shown enough will and seriousness in joining this problem. That shows a large number of amendments. The government must first face the reality that the State Audit Institute is not working, then remove the causes that led to this, only then to propose new legal solutions. I repeat again, if that is not the case, it is all pointless and it is a waste of taxpayers' money, as well as the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. One of the newspapers is that public procurement will no longer be advertised in daily newspapers, but on portals and in "The Official Messenger". Indeed, advertising in the daily paper was a major financial cost, however, it is interesting to announce that the training of a person who will "add" public procurement is only being announced, or tenders on the portal. How long will that take? Wasn't that ineffectiveness already seen? "Agreement" on the portal should introduce some transparency throughout the process, however, the said provision will apply only to public procurements exceeding five million dinars, if it is goods and services, or 20,000,000 dinars for works. The Serbian Radical Party believes that this provision should be changed and all public procurement on the portal is advertised, whose value exceeds the purchase of small values, since there is no justified criteria that would permanently limit the value of public procurement that would have been uploaded to the portal right now requires greater transparency. Also, one of the papers in the law is the introduction of officials or public procurement advisers. I have to notice that the government has accepted our amendment and that instead of employment, it has introduced only redistribution of personnel that have already been engaged in previous public procurement. We think it's a much better solution to do better systematization and workers just reroute instead of hiring new people. The law on public procurement also imposes criminal sanctions on those managers and officials, as well as companies that do not comply with the rules. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the existing criminal policy is bad, and especially should be borne in mind that public procurement is the area in which corruption is currently the most corrupt. This is exactly the kind of criminal policy that leads to the constant repetition of law violations, corruption spreading, and the responsible are not sanctioned. This fact is best confirmed by the Director of Public Procurement. Mr. Minister, perhaps you could listen to this statement, it's very useful. So, the director of the Public Procurement Administration Predrag Jovanovic said for a daily paper: "We have submitted applications for serious violations, but sanctions are lagging behind. For example, there was one serious purchase of around 20,000,000 dinars, and the company was fined only by warning. The court explained that the fine would be a cost to the state budget, as it is a state-owned firm. "If this is how judicial authorities behave, then I don't know what we can expect from others. The law is broken in a number of cases. The Commission for the Protection of Rights shall establish in several hundred cases each year that the contracting authorities have not implemented the contract prescribed by law. Despite the Commission's decision to partially or fully annul the tender, only in 2006 the decision to cancel the tender was made 175 times, there is no feedback whether the decision was implemented in practice at all. So we're in a vicious circle. The last example on which the situation of crime in the area of public procurement could be clearly seen is the municipality of Zrenjanin, whose mayor, Goran Knezevic, when the Democratic Party, was recently arrested. Public procurement director Predrag Jovanovic says, quotes: "There have been several complaints sent to the Commission for protection of rights. The Commission annulled the tenders, but later on, we learned from the public information funds that these jobs were closed, despite the annulment of irregularities. "It lasted until the Democratic Party made a political decision to demonstrate its fight against corruption in the Knezevic case. Unfortunately, that thinking took a terrible long time. Also, there are no annual reports from the Public Procurement Administration. According to data released by the Administration, only 2,100 provided a public procurement report in 2007, and the number of those who should do so is at least six times higher. Also, we have to realize that this number is increasing year by year. We're asking a question whose responsibility it is and if anyone's controlling it. Interestingly, although the Law on Public Procurement was largely violated, according to the Justice Ministry in 2006, it is very interesting, only 27 legal entities were fined, while 28 fines were imposed on responsible persons. The question is, what are the judicial authorities doing if the Public Procurement Act is in breach so much? To conclude, the rationality of public procurement must be seen as an integral part of budget spending. Can this law change that? We believe that no, because there are no foundations that would allow it to be properly implemented, primarily the State Auditing Institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7126	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stojanović Filip, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7127	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting by members of 225 and 226 and requesting a notice and explanation from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Interior Minister Ivica Dacic as regards the status of members of the Kosovo Police Service who lost their jobs on the day of the declaration of the Republic of Kosovo. A letter came to me from the Kosovo-Pomorava County, addressed to me by members of the Kosovo Police Service of Serbian Nationality. We are aware that the government of the Republic of Serbia, on 17 April 2008, made a decision on the mandatory takeover of all members of the Kosovo Police Service at the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia. As you can see, the government of the Republic of Serbia has not yet fulfilled its promise to this day and has not respected its decision made six months ago. I believe all these people have been deceived by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of the Interior. These people, who have been actively involved in the fight against terrorism and banditism, have decided to contribute, to stand up for all remaining Serbs who have remained to live in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija. I don't think they deserve this fate to be rejected in this way and left on white bread, without a job, because it's the only Serb protectors in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7128	Mr. Stojanovic, you will receive information from the MUP, or your question will be forwarded. There's a word from the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7129	Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia's Progressive Party MPs' Group Forward thinks this law is not good. In our opinion, this is a set of laws and regulations. The tax-numbered elements in this law may be very similar to the regulation, but to end it would be a regulation, there are still some details that could finally be carried out as a procedure for which an authorised person, a customer, a service or something else which is the subject of public procurement, can, by respecting the procedure, simplify the process of entering a large financial investment, from which usually, what is interesting to us, large institutions and large systems, above all in social or state ownership, can be used, most often for the benefit of individuals, therefore, bosses, owners, directors, presidents, etc. In this way, what is fundamental in this law, which is its anti-corruption activity, is at stake. (SRS emissaries chattering about MP benches distracting the speaker. ) In what way? So it's pounding, though. Good. The client will reject the offer, said Article 19, if there is credible evidence that the bidder acted through a series of persons who were in a certain, insufficiently defined manner could participate in the process of creating the offer. It is also likely that an official who, pursuant to Article 98, will be appointed as a responsible person, employed or out of the staff order, will be appointed to carry out this procedure. But we think it doesn't matter, because it's possible to influence that person indirectly, and this decision, this attitude can only work so as to say that the legislator thought of that variant that there was credible evidence... (President: Mrs Vukicevic, please. ) It can hardly be this delicate state to be... It's a conditional reflex, you know. Now Paul's Nobel Prize would come into question, but this is a common condition... Please, I will punish you. )......................................................................................................... for part of the opposition in Serbia. The client, he said, will refuse the offer if he has credible evidence that he threatened a member of the commission. You know, if a member of the commission and one who participate, a public offering participant, agree to do something, he'll never admit that someone threatened him, that he was blackmailing him. So this can look like one of the insolent members. For a short period of time, I will only go according to certain items of this bill. First of all, a member of 44 compulsory conditions for participation. The lieutenant and the tenderer must conclude, i.e. the tenderer must comply with the conditions prescribed by the contracting authority or the service provider in the public call and in the competitive documentation submitted. However, if parallel legislation is observed, we can see that it is not fully taxed here, even if the contract model is given, unless it contains everything necessary to enable the bidder to perform decently in his notice and to know exactly what to appear in front of the commission formed by the client. In the case of weighting, we'll best see how this thing can be until the end of the disenfranchisement. The orderer is required to determine in the competition documentation what he considers necessary financial and business capacity. Then, because it is a member of 45 who is working on this problem in a more detailed way. Then perhaps what the bidder offers should be classified in several categories, for example, evidence of financial capacity, evidence of legal validity, evidence of its economic success, and then beautifully formulate it - what is the statement, what is the decision, what is the report of the audit committee, what is the report of another financial authority, what is his personal report, how much is the bidder, this company, this private company, that state-owned, social firm, that stranger, obliged to offer. If it does so through other points of the law, then it is not in one place; it would be good if it were packed in one place and told what conditions are for business ability, what are conditions for certain forms of public procurement. It is not, therefore, the same if it is the subject of the supply of goods, different services or works. Because various procurements form different evidences of the provider’s validity. Of course, this could be seen from parallel laws in other countries, as it could be further cleared; the law might be bigger for several members, but it would be more extensive, it could be known exactly what opportunities to offer. Because if we start now from what is in this bill, it is somewhere in our third position – balance sheet with the opinion of the authorised auditor, etc. in total revenue for the longest three financial years, are we automatically bringing into an unenviable position of someone who started working, say, this year? He's a successful businessman, he's developed a company, he's invested money, and he doesn't have a year behind him, he doesn't have a chance to show the financial situation. For example, it's a kind of discrimination. Further, rejection, negative references. Someone can really be rejected if the company doesn't work badly, but what if there are only negative references in that company? Therefore, this should be clarified because some predict a very large set of negative references for the authorised person representing the firm. So, the company's doing business neatly, and she's hired someone with a biography like this or something. If he's private, you can't ban him from hiring whoever he wants. So maybe it was also possible to comb and see how it was solved in other institutions. Now, the kind of criteria. In order to assess the offer of someone who wants to participate in a public tender, at the first point, and these are the most economically favourable criteria, 12 points are numbered here... (SRS emissaries chattering about MP benches distracting the speaker. ) (President: Mr, don't do that, I ask you to allow Mr. Poscurica to address the Assembly and speak. ) Bihejvioral therapy can do it anyway, okay. ... So, the most economically advantageous, 12 points... Now they're all pricked, as far as the bill knows, up to 100 points. It might be directed that these 12 dots are put here, really seem logical, complex so that they are hierarchically valid. So the most important is the first, then the second, then the third. But if the object is an artistic good or something, the question is whether it's just a valuable price or, say, an aesthetic impression. Does the client have a right when he makes an offer, to stab each of these items differently? So the special question, if that's how it works, is it true that we've really protected our domestic bidders? If we put that the difference between 20 weighted points is the criterion that directs the client towards the home, instead of the country, that doesn't mean that in a financial sense, if the weighting is not defined, we did it for the register, for the budget, the budget of the local, the budget of the republican. Imagine how important this is in the supply of drugs, medical equipment and others. If someone pulls 20 points on the basis of, I don't know, good co-operation, prominent companies, etc. And he gets, a stranger, some advantage, and it costs a lot more financially, then it would be more understandable if it was put here that 20% of the price, as it was put there when it comes to this criterion of the lowest offered price. Then that thing is clearer, because 20 points, it's a math that can easily put everything within the framework of legality, and it's going through a very expensive procurement. Imagine on the drug market where you have a domestic parallel or a foreign drug, and then you evaluate this or that, it's going to be 19 points, and it can be a stranger, and it's twice as expensive. There are sources of corruption, crime, unfounded wealth. Let's go to health care, talk about the directors, the chiefs of the tender, the ones that are being negotiated, etc. Here the law provides for what will be the official person who will do so, the control authorities and the contracting authorities, the protection of the rights of those who participate in the public procurement, in the public offering. However, the question is how effective it will be. If the unusually low price, you are now putting the orderer in a situation that I have to find mechanisms in a re-invocation; whoever answered the tender for public procurement has to call again and say, "I'm sorry, why is the price so cheap for you?" If you're building a road, you put less asphalt on it, do you put less tampons on it? He has a whole series of activities to take on. The question is how much of it will be true, how much someone who objectively wants to make a progressive profit is going to be cut out of the process, because it came out at the lowest price. It's a very relative category for which, finally, as I was saying about this previous one, where someone can be scared, bribed, corrupt, no criminal provisions, no criminal liability, no offence, no nothing. I think maybe this should have been complemented, done a little more effectively, because in that case we would have one law that might have been on the trail of attempts to prevent corruption, to prevent the criminal behavior of those who have learned to live well and profit from budget money, to end this situation in Serbia. Finally, it is our position, and in this direction it will work (I guess I show little that we do not need to beat) and our political party. Exactly, one of the ten points of the programming principles is the fight against corruption, in which we will be resilient, not calling this moment either the left or the right, but everywhere and at all levels, where different coalitions bring different bearers of power. We will seek and we will insist that even through this law, if you adopt it, we find the basis to question many items and make things clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7130	Thank you. Mr Avramovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7131	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we have now had a chance to see a thief teach a thief...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7132	Excuse me, by what member of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Avramović?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7133	I have three minutes to inform which member: Article 27, Article 102. Constitution, Article 104. Should I keep counting?
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7134	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7135	We have a chance to see a thief teach a thief how to take his socks off his head. We were just in that situation. First, let me tell you something, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I don't know with what intentions, what wishes...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7136	Mr. Avramovicu, we are obliged to address each other politely. You can't call your colleague Pokukuri that, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7137	You have violated dignity. If a thief tells anyone, thief, you can't define what I wanted to say because you interrupted me. So, he went out for this pay phone, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, some lab-based MP who calls himself that and says what he had to say, how to get his socks off his head. He says -- we and our party, and he's advertising his party's program from this pay phone. You do not understand that he has just reported under this law because Americans, along with Boris Tadic, have opened a tender for public procurement to kill Vojislav Seselj. He volunteered first, which is perfectly natural. Read Manter's statements and you'll understand. But I'm distracting you, don't let the abuse of this pay phone to people who are citizens. Article 102. The constitution says: "The MP is free to, under certain laws, unrevocably put his mandate at the disposal of a political party whose proposal was elected as a MP. "Article 100 says: "The National Assembly consists of 250 MPs elected in the direct elections by secret vote, in accordance with the law." This man was chosen by no one, he represents what he represents. This is what the lab did. Do you understand that? It's the destruction of this congregation's dignity. There's a tender, a man answered, but let him go to the address. Anyway, he took something, so now he has to justify it, that's what it's all about. There's a violation of dignity. So their attempt, which failed, continues. You see it and you won't stop it. It's your fault for this situation, you've allowed this situation, and this is why you need to answer. So, she can't, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, come out a citizen, she can't come out to respond to the tender, if he's not competent, although he has the will, even though he needs the means to live better.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7138	The word is Mr Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7139	Of course, I'll tell you again that it's article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since you, Mrs. Djukic, insist on breaking the Constitution and the laws, and the Rules of Procedure in particular, I will insist on explaining to you from this pay phone what it is, but most of all with the intention of the people to understand what it is. You must know that Serge Brammertz visited Serbia on 9 September 2008. Then someone resigned in all places in the Serbian Radical Party; in that small hall he said he would come out here to say he would no longer be involved in politics, he went out for this pay phone and said - I created a new parliamentary group. You've all applauded him. On November fourteenth this year, Serge Brammertz comes again. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ask yourselves what new corruption will happen to all of you in the Republic of Serbia. I don't know what you're planning, whether anyone else is going to rip, tear, tear, rip, go, how much you're going to give, what you're going to buy, what you're going to sell, I really couldn't deal with speculation. I just want to show you that Serge Brammertz is coming, and since he's coming, count on something black to happen to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia again. Nothing bad happened to the Serbian radical party. There's a great delusion of yours. It happened to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because now they finally realize that crime is worth it. Crime pays off in this country. But do you know how hypocritical it is when someone, as a product of theft or the subject of a crime, criticises the Government of the Republic of Serbia by some mistake in this room? Thus, justified criticisms by Serbian Radical Party MPs at the expense of the government of the Republic of Serbia are devalued, minimized and otherwise questioned. But that's exactly what Boris Tadic wants -- that absolutely nothing is known about what is in this assembly, to bring in mild chaos, so that he and his size appear as something normal, which has nothing to do with these things happening in the National Assembly. And it happens, and you support it. I've told you more than once, of course, we're here, we're going to stamp every single one of these phenomena, each of these copies will be stamped. Soon a new book will come out, where we'll publish everything, who said what, when he said, why he said, that it would be absolutely clear to everyone. And you'll have the right place in those books. We'll start with the promotions of those books, so people can hear the truth about what it's all about, to see what kind of criminal project this is to destroy the state. This is a criminal project. (President: Time, Mr. Krassic. I'll get it again, no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7140	The word is from Mr. Pai Mamchilov, the MP of the people. According to the Rules of Procedure, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7141	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, I advertise, of course, Article 27, but I'll skip it and I'll call on Article 104. What has been repeated to you by the insistent MPs of the SRS from day to day is now becoming alarming. What are we persistently rebelling against and what are we not able to agree on? We cannot agree that certain citizens here, who appear to be the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, have placed the SRS under their firm. Look at the assembly site, please. They can only exist here as MPs of the SRS. Why do these people tolerate it? I don't understand. It's not a matter of morality, it's a matter of breaking the law. You're a psychiatrist, is it possible, you know what a divided personality is, that you're also a Serbian Progressive Party and that you're also an SRS? We've just got such a schizophrenic situation. We simply invite you, and of course this majority here who dictates all of this and makes this confusion and therefore demeans this congregation, to come to your senses. You can't be an SRS and say all this talk about this pay phone. It's nonsens, it's schizophrenia. Please don't insult the citizens of Serbia. I know there's no morality in politics, it's been declared long ago, I don't plead to it, I plead to elementary logic and what would be law and justice and this Rules of Procedure. You can't be both at the same time. I won't talk about Camelot, I don't even think about it; I won't talk about the morale of someone who steals, I don't even think about it, they're grown-ups, mature people. I'm not going to be like Vuk Draskovic, who wrote in the list "Today" two days ago -- a Sulay marium from the Zemun magistrate. I don't know how his representatives sitting here after what the party president wrote to them can tolerate such a schizophrenic and impossible situation. Don't, please, Camelot, let's put up with it here, and don't let those of you who run this home be brought into this situation because of the undisciplinedness of this majority here. I personally believe that you are an honorable man, President, and I appeal to you as a colleague that you do not allow such immorality, such a violation of regulations and laws. We Serbian radicals will end up branding this state in the Serbian parliament. Believe me, if you persist, so will we.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7142	Mr. Krasic Zoran, according to the Rules of Procedure. I have repeatedly answered your questions. It is known which institutions in this country are doing what they are doing; therefore, the National Assembly and the President of the National Assembly are doing what is provided for the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7143	I am just calling for you to quote that your work in the National Assembly, and not only in this room, but in the cabinet and in the public when you perform. You must understand, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, you are part of a project called the Government of the Republic of Serbia, coalitions, etc. And you have to suffer these consequences. I can't stamp this directly through Boris Tadic, because he's not in the country, so I have to go through you. I just need to distract you. We did as you instructed. We filed a criminal report. The fourth municipal public prosecutor's office sent the First Municipal Prosecutor's Office criminal charges with additions and with various evidences. The purpose of the criminal report is to prove that a certain Smokey has committed a criminal act under Article 328. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia, and he has made unusable official corrections. For the sake of the public, it must be known, under Criminal Law, MPs are officials. The documents they make are official documents. The resignations and powers that all MPs of the Serbian Radical Party... And these are those who, in their belief of election for the MP of the people, say that they were chosen from the list of SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj; 78 of them have such beliefs. Now you've got some people sitting here, and they don't have confidence. They pretend to be something else. There is no party in the list of political parties participating in the elections. It was formed a few days ago, thanks to your passivity. You think it's possible, so it's not possible. We'll brand you. An unauthorized man has made a mesmerized task, without a decision by the Central Homeland Authority, with an order not to take a loan. I'm opening the question - can political parties be financed by bank loans? I can't, but he's in charge and there's 68,000,000 dinars of the SRS blockade. Six months we won't be able to pay anything off the giro bills, and they're applauding. The other two say we're brands. If we had invested as much money as we invested in them for years, they would have become presidents of the republic. What are they playing here now? The Emperor of Troyan's goat ears. You all need to put up with this. Come on, you, but all the citizens of Serbia, they should all suffer. Who do they have to put up with? It's like this sort of thing, this way of thinking.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7144	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, the thief has a broader situation. In addition to stealing parliamentary mandates, the unauthorized borrowing of the Serbian Radical Party, there is also the work of stealing parliamentary mandates. So a citizen, who had just stood on one leg, got stuck in the back here, I guess he's standing next to this inventory, stealing the mandates of the SRS board elected on a list that he didn't move on to get the parliamentary mandate of Serbian radicals in the town of Kragujevac. The entire outlaw group with him, with the help of Veroljub Stevanovic, this philosopher Milenic, whom you all are watching and listening to, is just that no one can repeat what the man said when he spoke from the assembly booth, usurping the will of the citizens of Kragujevac. You know, Mrs. Djukić-Dejanović, you're an honorary woman, you're a regular professor of the Kragujeva Medical Faculty, long-time director of the Clinical and Hospital Centre, that such people, who do so in politics, cannot enjoy the reputation in the environment in which they live. That's how you guys beat the shit out of a citizen in the mayoral election four years ago, and I'm congratulating you, even though you're from another party, and then I'm congratulating you on that. Because when citizens look at a political party through a person, as it was in those elections, they have everything in mind. They mean, above all, both members and voters of the Serbian Radical Party as someone treats them and their work. I will tell you, Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, what you know: 164 polling stations exist in Kragujevac; people who were members of the electoral committees, presidents of local committees, sympathisers, members of the SRS are people who are not (and you yourself know because we come from the same environment) of the average property, but are really living on the edge of existence, or are people who are truly honest with their work supporting members of their family. When they see someone who hasn't moved their fingers to get what he got from the SRS at that time, and then dared to steal the parliamentary and parliamentary mandate to talk about the government of the Republic of Serbia making some machinations, that is, that is, that is, certain state bodies and businesses do, then you have to ask yourself, as a person of profession, as it is called and as to what it is led. How can these people ever show up in the middle where they live, stand in front of mirrors, turn to their friends, neighbors, relatives, and who normally can support it, who thinks there are scruples, that there are human values, that there is morality? As the citizen, this guru, took an oath at the temple in Zemun a while ago, as Mr Krasic read, so was the citizen who was standing here on one foot with both legs in the temple, the success of the Holy Mother, the seat of the forest diocese, the same oath, with the same text, with me and the then elected councilors and MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. So much for morale and so much for those who need to believe in something and leave something behind for generations. Our lives end, but, you know, all of us, when we get to Judgment Day, we need to know how people will talk about us, who we were, what we were, whether we have morality, honor and honesty. I am proud to carry this first from my home, and to be taught by Professor Vojislav Seselj in politics by all those moral values.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7146	The word is Mr. Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7147	I report to the Rules of Procedure for the offensive and untrue statement of facts at the expense of the MPs of the people. It has happened many times before, and this is the first time I've reported that Natasa Jovanovic went out and told me what she wanted. I just want to remind the public, I'm the same Professor Milet Poscurica who left that party where we've been together for a substantial amount of money, financing from his parliamentary salary, probably the rank of "florid". I've visited every stands, every speech, there are records of everything, written and recorded materials, where we've promoted the books of Vojislav Seselj. I was elected MP by the will of Vojislav Seselj and at the proposal of Natasha Jovanovic. I attended all the meetings, all the meetings, which is neatly recorded, every session of the city's district board. I put ten times as many posters and the rest... Not to get into the details, a university professor must be different from someone who is his only destiny, the only solution found in politics with a huge amount of lies, lies and fraud. I won't answer again. It's all said. He can say whatever he wants, but it was one necessary minimum of defense dignity from those who are really trying to get down on personal ground. I'm sorry. Natasha traveled with me for three years every day of the car, reserved front seat for her, etc. We know a lot about each other and we've been through a lot together. Why wasn't I hired from that party in time, liquidated? Why didn't she accept being elected mayor when I offered the collected signatures to her by thinking that she could do more with her will and her charisma? So, the antiquity she ran in both this campaign and that campaign... I'm turning myself into a phase where I don't believe I'm saying what I'm saying. Really, I don't think it makes any sense, that this has reached the bottom of the bottom and that the replicas on these speeches are no longer of any use. Everyone talks about themselves in their own, unique way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7148	The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7149	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I understood that the entire SRS city board worked for your benefit four years ago, not for the benefit of someone who had not received citizens' trust in the elections. That's how it turns out, but you know it's not true. Indeed, my personal dignity and the level of communication I tried to maintain and in personal communication with the person concerned, which is only seemingly nice, but the worst possible and the ugliest swearing I've heard from that particular person's mouth... So, it doesn't allow me my dignity and my personal dignity to talk about such a person and in such a way I address someone who is nothing in this congregation, but one citizen. But you see how it all comes to itself. Someone boasts - I read the books, I spoke in the stands, I did this and that. Up to two days before that coup, he swore to the character and work of Prof. Vojislav Seselj, and then everyone wondered why you were involved in his murder, why were you with those who wanted to take his party and you participated in it and were the leader of all of it, and why are you doing it in the sight of all of Serbia and their leader who did it for his own personal benefit and because of the complex of Vojislav Seselj? In fact, everything that's funny, but indeed in its recognizable style written by Vuk Draskovic two days ago in the daily list "Today" speaks enough about how people who had previously had a conflict and political reasoning with Prof. Vojislav Seselj, who, like Vuk Draskovic said, had been imprisoned in the dungeon of the Hague case, experienced that a provincial man without education and with the manner of a charsic entertainer, or one who worked in factories where he worked or at the Kragujeva city cemetery, had put him in charge of the party, with the help of Boris Tadic to take mandates and to gather himself into some group of MPs... In fact, in real life and in all the honorable people in Serbia, they represent nothing. You shouldn't wave at me at all, wave at your wife so apologize for everything you've done, and you should have been an honorable man and a morale, both as a father, and as a husband, and as someone who predicated to represent some role model in Serbia's political life. Since I know a lot about you and your immorality, I will now withdraw, and I leave you and your conscience, Mr. Nikolic, to sleep peacefully tonight, if some device doesn't work in the house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7150	The word is Mr. Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7151	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, it's that member again, you understand. You know what it's like, there's gotta be some kind of merry-go-round. Here we have a cheerleading party here and in the National Assembly. I didn't think there'd be any fun after Albianic, but now we've got a happy one. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to understand what this is about...
ParlaMint-RS_2008-11-13-0.u7152	Dear Members of the Parliament, I have been informed that there is no transmission. I am under obligation, or we are all under obligation to keep our work public. So, we'll have to pick up tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Thank you.
