ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u1	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, over the length of meetings, suggests that a conference can be held for longer than any other time, if necessary. Do they want a vote on this President's proposal? It is requested to vote on the President's proposal, and it will be a vote after the end of Unprepared queries.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u2	As the U.S. Senate has noted, variations from the arrangement of members of the committee's affairs have been granted at meetings of the Synod committees and of the resolutions of members of the Parliament. It has been determined that this assembly will have variations and that they will be new as necessary. On this basis and with the reference to 5 mg. Section 8. President has issued instructions on meeting services and the use of telecommunications at the constant committee meetings. In spite of the changes made in the arrangement of meeting regular committees and reported at a meeting on May 29th. It is important to remember that although committees have moved toward the routine of the Parliaments, they still have the influence of the epidemic, for instance, to meet with visitors who are limited, and the effect still remains on air transports. Therefore, in view of this, the strains that have been introduced by the president are to be replaced in the following way: The nominees should normally be in a meeting place. Committees of Disease or Health Care Committee requests to participate in a meeting with telecommunication tools, or while the limitations of air transport due to the epidemic provide the potential of regional Parliaments with a burdensome limit, if allowed, and should be reported on with sufficient advance to take appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u3	As for the 11th session, the matter was distributed after April 1 and the deadline is not yet up to 3 mg. Protocol 37, i.e. ... called a 5-day rule. Hence, there is a need to agree to take the matter on. The president's opinion of these variants is adopted without a vote if no one objects. No one resists and is therefore accepted, and the matter will be discussed later at this meeting. So much about the 3th, 4th, and 5th part of the program that they are being reassigned too much. So we need to seek approval from making the adjustments. The variants will be viewed without vote if they do not speak out. [[Up front.]] There are protests and votes that will be paid at the same time as votes for the duration of a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u4	President. I want less than ever. The president of Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, did not sit in the position of the president when I mentioned it last week, although I mentioned it at a council meeting office, that the president cannot see with my consent that he can use 80 gr. Congress, as he has done during the Covid case, about making changes and so on, without choosing to do so in a plagion hall as usual from the beginning, just until Covid. Because we're not in this tail election, the President can't take that power. We need to go back to the form that was, for it was the power of the president to declare that he accepts a case if there is no objections, there is something I simply did not trust in this seated president. About 80. is now clear for president and for the second time in the world that he cannot look to me for consent so that he can handle matters without a vote and sit down. How will the president react?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u5	The president will not respond in any way. The power lies at the hall, and each one can make a comment or request a vote, and then it is always done, so there is some misunderstanding about where the power is to produce variations from the council. It's at the Council. It's right next to the Senate Hall. Each one has a chance to bring in such a vote as this one has and explains it, I think, perfectly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u6	Mr. President. I have produced several questions about the number of apartments that have been acquired during the past few years with the goal of attracting the impact of the collapse on homes and government policy. V.E.G. During this council, the Minister of Justice has answered two such requests, in December 2019 and in March 2020. Now it is true that earlier this month and quite recently answers are exactly similar to those asked by the Minister of Justice, where it is said that the inquiry does not fall under the legal language of the minister of justice, which is surprising in the light of previous answers. Then it is claimed that requests do not meet the conditions of the Conventional Act. It is said that a quick request cannot be answered, although this is a request for additional information that can be set in a table. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. President that he would assist with the answers and correct the misunderstanding of the Minister of Justice that a minister has the last word to consider the terms of the Senate law. Of course, it belongs to the president, as it has obviously appeared recently in public.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u7	Mr. President. I come up here to complain, too, of incomprehension from counsellors and advisers. I agree with that. paritaprevir Ólafur, the Ísleifsson of Issunus was that it is a bit unfortunate for the Minister of Justice to dispossess the council with these answers. On December 17, 2019, a report on the conduct and consequences of the storm was adopted. December. The prime minister was to make that report, but nothing has been asked. Then, March 13, 2020, questions were adopted that I raised to the highest level. Tourism, industrial and innovation Minister for monitoring corporate fusion. It was March 13th. The answers to these questions have not been asked, and these were no complex questions presented there. Third, a respected president, March 26, asked about a number of government employees who quit because of their age. That question was addressed to the highest. Secretary of finance. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. Since the questions mentioned here are relatively simple to answer, a president of the Ministry and the Ministry will bring answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u8	President. For 80th. Congress says, by permission of the President: Then the president has reason to believe that everyone is in one case or a outcome case is clear beforehand, and he can state that there is an unregistered issue if no senator demands that it be carried out, and then the president's declaration will be in place of a vote. It involves a great deal of power that the president can only pass a vote at a council. He doesn't have to have a vote on a case, he just declares it over one and unconcerned that it's accepted. Yet, there has been a reason to believe that everyone is in one case or that the outcome is clear in advance. This has always been the case, and now the president has been hired by Congress parties to enter the Covid case taking up a case, a change proposal, and so on, to facilitate, and he intends to continue in his power. This isn't working. The President will have to state that we go back to the same way that he doesn't have the authority and doesn't retain the authority he has given him for Covid's sake, the ensign we gave him for Covid's sake. As far as I can see, there's a violation of Congress if the President's plan is to make this stressful. [[The president calls.]] I already declared that he does not have that support.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u9	The President offered a suggestion for a variation, although distributed after April 1, etc., and used the wording that the variants would be accepted if no protests were given. This was because the president had previously discussed it with members of Congress this morning if it was not to be viewed as having an agreement that would not require a vote for abnormalities. Still, each senator could have requested a vote, but that was not done. As a result, the president was well - thought that this was a full agreement. Regarding the length of a meeting, the president used another expression, i.e. It is suggested by the president that a meeting meeting may last longer. Then the president asked if anyone wanted a vote. It was done, and then it's done. There has been no change in interpretation or engagement performance here. On the other hand, it is true that the Council was united in simplifying life as long as votes were most difficult in taking as much of them through declarations as possible. The president is grateful for that. But the President hopes to do it. Senators have no doubt about the source of these causes. It's in the hall, always and always. However, the president has a proposal, and the president does not need permission from individual council members to state whether or not his proposal needs a vote. Other than that, the president has no further discussion on this matter, and most of all, he is determined to do so. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson on that matter. The matter is relatively clear. It's the norm. Therefore, the president will not take it lightly if he is brought up by another person than he intends to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u10	Mr. President. It is becoming a widespread habit among ministers not to respond to queries directed to them by the council. Now it's like I have to call attention to it as a dog. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isleususunsson said earlier, that after President has agreed to pass queries in the form of queries, it takes the highest power. The minister of judicial committees may decide on his own that the inquiry is too extensive and cannot be answered. It's annoying, Mr. President. This is the time for the European Commission to proceed to the U.S. Parliament's court. I didn't intend to come up here again and mention another inquiry about the apartment loans that have appeared here seven times, but I have to do it again, Mr. President, because there's nothing to answer. There's only a half month left of this council, and I don't see that it will run out until there is a complete answer to these inquiries. At least it's perfectly certain that this will be the case. Even if we do not agree with one another, we may be able to give a bold talk in order to prevent this council coming to an end before these requests are answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u11	President. I think there is reason to reiterate what has been pointed out here, the importance of the president's applying for the ministry to answer queries within an appointed period of time. It is almost to become a rule rather than an exception that the Ministers respond too late and even too late, too late, as in that case as a matter of course. paritaprevir It's the Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson mentioned earlier. Then it happens now, as mentioned in the case of the day. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson, that a minister who has previously responded to a similar sort of inquiry suddenly takes note of the fact that he is not to answer queries, that someone else should do so, and that they are too detailed. It takes the minister some months to make that reply, to conclude that the minister should not answer. This is where the President of the Parliament has to intervene.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u12	Mr. President. I just meant to make sure that, of course, it's that way, like the highest. The president has mentioned that variations depend on the approval of the council. It has been clear and clear how a president's work has been done, and his duty to serve under the council is clear, and the president has always done so so so that he has not made any decisions that he has made to pass out votes differently than to give members of Congress the opportunity to demand a vote as if they have no right to do so according to Congress. That's the way it is today, and that's how it has been. I don't think there's any reason to believe that the President is in some way crossing the council or going around the court of Congress. He has always been in regard to these projects, even though unpredicted circumstances have been in place, opportunities have been given to the council and members of the council to make a different conclusion with the majority of authority that he has proposed. The charges against other matters, in my opinion, are completely unprovoked.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u13	President. I just thought it's true that at this morning's meeting of the council groups there was an agreement that the 11th cases would come on a schedule without a special vote. But I think I know that my colleague. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, has been responding to the fact that there was also a variation of the proposed changes that appeared late, which were not discussed at a meeting of the council groups this morning and were not agreed but were still offered in this way. Just so it's clear what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u14	You're absolutely right. A senator, who is now making large changes from the government position, from the lesser part, so that the president was so optimistic and naive to assume that a change of opinion, including a change of opinion, would be reasonably acceptable. Ported by the government stand, would be allowed to appear before the meeting without a special vote. But that was a misunderstanding, and the president will try to avoid it. If the government situation general wishes to vote on her own matters, then I'm sure it will.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u15	Mr. President. I wondered what position we are here, and I wondered about the surveillance role of our senators when we receive repeated and multitasked answers to questions we ask. If they arrive late and eventually, they will not be answered. Even queries submitted more than three months ago, such as the base. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isleusunsson mentioned, he has the answer to a question he asked more than three months ago. And that is a standard answer where a minister chooses not to answer questions she has previously answered in previous queries. I considered our role and the role of the Parliament in the management of the Commission. What position do we have? Has the council become powerless? What is the bite of the council against the executives when we look at these matters over and over again?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u16	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the concern of the senators here with no answer or how late the government will answer. It is strongly recommended that you ask for a delay above due to questions and recruitment requirements, it is useful not to mark the decrease. This has increased in recent years, so there is no hiding behind man's lack of man's control. So I think this is the attitude that comes from the government and members of the greater part, in order to minimize the inquiry of the statesmen, or to downplay the members of the Parliament's report, simply not appropriate. I think it's disrespectful and even dangerous. On the contrary, in the Government Treaty, the challenge is to promote the ways and respect of the Generals. I'd especially like to direct it to the highest. President and I would like to know, is there an automatic delay when the government and the Ministers ask for a postponement of queries? Is he granted automatically, or are there any rules about how we here at the council can improve our surveillance? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u17	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying what I want to say. Council members who have been critical of answers and slow answers have been delayed. It is not as common as this is, and how often the members of Congress need to draw information out of the government, almost by tails, in order to obtain information that we have a right to receive from the problems of counsel. I think it's very important that we keep our rights up here, because it's important. I would also like to point out that it is important that when members of the Parliament clearly indicate that they no longer support the arrangement that can be arranged for them unless they specifically object, that there will be no payment on the various issues, adjustments, changes, or other matters, or that they will not be allowed to appear before it is scheduled. It is important that you pay attention to and discontinue this system, for it is not a reason to continue. Just as high as I am. The president will discuss it with members of the council every time he asks for everyone's approval.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u18	Mr. President. I would like to agree with those members of the council who have complained that answers are late from counsellors and that they are not even answered when the answers come only in half. This isn't working anymore. I trust, Mr. President, that when we ask for his help in calling for answers and calling for a quick response, the president answers questions are answered with the best and the best of heart, it is not to be expected that employees will not be able to handle the question list because then, Mr. President, the Ministry will need more staff. We have a certain surveillance role here, and we need privacy and space to care for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u19	A respectable president. I would like to agree with the comments of many of the senators who have come up here and criticize the slowness of ministers. In this context, I wanted to mention three of the four queries I have submitted to this council for a written answer. These are not always difficult material questions. I asked the highest. On January 21, more than four months ago, if there had been a new cost plan or an update plan for the New Land Hospital, I asked the Minister of Education on the total cost of construction at the Wall, and so on. That such simple questions take three or four months can hardly be explained by one of the precepts. paritaprevir Björn Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, who is most often familiar with the media talk of the queries asked by members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u20	Mr. President. I didn't mean to come up here again, but because I'm at the highest. The minister of finance is so happy about this discussion that I wanted to increase his joy yet to ask him for a few months ago about the government's income of a valuable tax on the trade of drugs, i.e. Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. You'd have thought it was simple, because there's plenty of guys up in the finance Department that know about Excel, that's what we've seen over the years. So this joy and cheery minister just encouraged me to redirect this inquiry to him privately and personally and ask him to give answers to this inquiry that are somewhat important and to do it as soon as we need not come up here again and again to talk about the same things to the government that was going to promote the way of the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u21	The President recommends that the discussions about the President's conference board not be changed to question time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u22	A respectable president. In this sort of meeting talk, I run this very interesting program, which shows me that the average time of response for active days is 37 days for every query. 251 queries have been answered, 178 remains. V.E.G. The foreign and development secretary has the longest response time, the mean duration of response during active days of 94 days. There is one query, and then there are six other queries. He is also there as foreign minister, and there was an average response time during the week 76 days for a total of six queries. Thus, this may not always be an enormous amount of stress because of the number of queries when six queries cannot be answered at a reasonable time. So I agree with this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u23	The president would like to say that it is a ongoing challenge to reach answers. Mothers there most at a meeting office in their relationship. No matter how long the answers have been received and how long after the answers were received, the question remains constant. We have also given much emphasis to the Ministry, which was a significant variation in the years before. I suppose this is a better song, that we are in general applying for longer periods, but it is not only ignored if answers are not received at the right time. The other is quite true, unfortunately, that there has been a significant delay and has grown during the recent council that answers to inquiries, even to the point of passing them until the fall. It is possible to hand out answers even if a meeting is not at work, so despite a good offer to support meetings until answers are made, it does not necessarily require them. The answers can be sent even if a conference is not effective.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u24	To answer, Secretary of Economics and Economics, Health Ministers and Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u25	President. The last year, this government has made various contracts, meeting contracts with the mayor's section of Reykjavík, and after a while as ministers, and perhaps most important of all the ministers who have taken the lead in this regard, it seems that they do not understand what they are signing. At least is very different from the understanding of what is involved in these agreements. The government has also made agreements with rural areas to sell property to the State, often in total terms, apparently in some way other than to maximise the value of the property of the State. I would like to mention, for example, as an example, the sale of the Vifil position country to prevent the construction of a new hospital. The same can be said of the Netherlands, which is also to be sold to finance a city line for most parts in Reykjavík and then at its time to sell to part of the State's country from an airfield in Watermam. In fact, it was in the past. A minister and this agreement with extraordinary differences made between the Minister of the United States and the mayor of the United States, where the State gave almost or sold in a very ideal land from an airport in Watermam, an airport shared by the nation. Land from the airport was sold, yet let history tell that it would be conditional under this contract that the land would be sold on the market to ensure minimum return for the state. Now I'm asking the highest. Minister: has the highest. A minister made some adjustments or some others? Because the city of Reykjavík has now begun distributing this country without posting it. The question is simple: Has this agreement of the State and the 2013 city of Reykjavík been changed? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u26	A respectable president. I don't know that these changes have been made. I'd have to have it looked up in order to be 100% sure of it. But I don't remember ever getting into my desk making changes in my contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u27	President. Then I'll wake up here again with the highest attention. A minister is to say that the city seems to be compromising with a contract that she made with the State in 2013 and with good reason for the Supreme Court. Minister and government to step in there, as if the government should have done for countless other times. The latest example of the recent news is the city's decision to pass through a cloud in Reykjavík's airport. After that, they tried to bring it ashore, but conferences and other data showed that the city had simply intended to do what she wanted with this country, although it meant destroying a company there, weakening the domestic flight, and passing through a cloud of air. There's good reason for that. Ministers to investigate this case, look up this terrible 2013 contract, and ensure that the city is on its side with this agreement, but it will not escape, as it is all too often trying against the state, and unfortunately, too often too often with too much success.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u28	A respectable president. I mean, like other rural groups, the State's interests were well cared for in dealing with the city. This request has given examples of contracts, e.g. have a variety of future economic schemes so that if the value of the land grows after the treaty, for example. By a change of organization, the Kingdom will benefit from it as its share increases. What then touches the capital agreement, i.e. The agreement for improved transport here in the capital area, is clear guidelines for the coming of the Council in this matter and in the context of a transport program that is now for the treatment of the council and very far away. Another bill will also be discussed at the council to frame a frame around it. Therefore, a proper approach to these matters is very rich.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u29	President. The past few months have shown remarkable perseverance, self - sacrifice, and the effectiveness of those serving in health care in Iceland. All should be aware of how essential the work of nurses and other health care professionals is to society. Pirata's team has always encouraged priorities for health care professionals and institutions, supporting the nurse's struggle. By doing so, we will ensure outstanding health care for those in need. Nurses play a key role in this, and the condition of nurses is a basic premise for good health. Nurses are basic criteria for good health. After a long eight years without an acceptable agreement, after five years under the law against their strike, after three years of a contract forced by the court and after 15 months without contracts and after putting themselves at risk in the forward line of denasuring the Covid pandemic, nurses are forced to see themselves in a strike at 22 June. At the same time as we plan to open the country and build a job, we also aim to prevent them from being carried out on the border that the government announced just about an hour ago. So I ask the highest. Healthcare Minister: How does she demonstrate that they will be shown without nurses? The strike, if not averted by a contract, will occur only one week after a cross-border opening. So, what happens then, chief? A health minister? Does a minister expect tourists to book trips to a country where nurses strike? Isn't the best way to pay Iceland's interests by making a deal now, don't you think?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the council that I think is burning on all of us and accepting the viewpoints expressed in the inquiry on the importance of completing contracts. It is proper to keep the meeting to this day, so it is probably not advisable for a health minister to have many words about the content of the contract or what is involved in the agreement. However, I'd like to say that the communications that have taken place between the government agreements and nurses have been good all along. These collective agreements have been extremely complex and have been found solutions to the very complex subjects involved in the nursing environment. This is especially due to the unselfish efforts of nurses at the bargaining table. Then I'm talking about what's meant to be on duty and pay for shift work. It has been an important and important part that can be said to agree with the results and is really the point of changing the nursing environment. But what still stands out, like the otter. A senator mentions and has shown himself in the media, the pay force itself. I'll share my concerns with you. The senator's assignment to make cross - borders is, of course, the need for our health care and the care available there. This applies to nurses as well as other health - care professionals.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u31	President. I'm kind of going to have to repeat my question. I'm asking, "How's the big one?" A health minister should be observed without a nurse? Or can it be understood that the plan is dealing with nurses? That would be wishful, that would be the best result. But I also ask because many nurses are understandably afraid that history will repeat itself and that laws will be passed on the strike, especially in the light of the important time now, i.e. that we're opening the border, and staff need to be there to do that work. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to what she would like to say to nurses to address these concerns and whether she would support such legislation, i.e. not to have a nurse strike. [[The president calls.]] But I feel that a lack of answer to the first question about how this specimen will be done without nurses if the strike is not averted by a contract. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u32	A respectable president. I just want to reiterate that, of course, we're in that position as long as it's possible that it's our goal to make deals. I would like to see that the agreement would be made not just because of the national testing project but because nurses are one of the major health professions. Sometimes it is said that nurses are the spine in the medical service, and I don't think that's excessive. A level of activity, of course, should be maintained in an adequate environment and working conditions. As health - care minister, I have spoken for it and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u33	...to support that...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u34	Mr. President. About an hour ago, the first press conference on changing rules had to do with the reception of tourists who take effect after a week. As a result, there are many questions I would like to ask about the project I want to make at the highest level. Secretary of health. It was observed that tourists have the option of either wearing a two - week tab or buying a sample, but those taking samples do not have to get an infection while waiting. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is this assignment being carried out by our having few tourists? The performance is said to be 2,000 specimens a day in total at Hospitals and Icelandic genetics. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Do you include samples of those who may bring the Norwegian? The fine ship takes 1,400 passengers. What about those who fly in Akureyri? What about Icelandic travelers? They can choose to go to a free sample at the Icelandic genetics rather than pay 15,000 bucks. At the border? Or can tourists order free samples from Icelandic genetics? The surgeon rightly identified a weakness in the earlier meeting for insufficient housing and a lack of healthcare professionals. Tells you the highest. A minister's concern too? What about the selective actions that have been delayed for months? Will they be suspended for this project, this sample taken on the border? Finally, I'd like to ask the highest. A secretary of the first round: How does she foresee that the crew of airplanes and passenger ships will be taken, as well as tourists in the surrounding vehicles if a tourist is diagnosed with the crown virus? Do all of them get in a carnivore without cost? Who will pay the crew members who need to go under the stress beds and others who have to go under for this journey?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u35	A respectable president. These were a few questions. I'd like to celebrate, in particular, that I've been invited to a meeting. to discuss these matters, and there I will have the help of a D.A.D. to answer for a unique application. But so I stick to the big lines of a question. The senator, then, aims at the analysis capacity as 2,000 samples per day. This means the total share of samples that will be taken and analysed, including those samples that will be produced by the Norwegian or by other sides into the country. On the other hand, we have had a view of the possibility that the Akureyri hospital might be involved in some sort of analysis, that is, to say. But it is absolutely clear that, while we are taking our first steps in this very complex task, we need to answer some of these questions as well as the task takes place, especially with the extravasation in the big picture. And because of what? A senator in particular asks about the health system in other ways, then we're talking about the design and situation and other things, of course, we need to continue to be able to take samples of people's symptoms, if they simply get Covid's symptoms, we'll be able to identify them. I'd also like to report here that we're assuming to finance the structure and systemisation of the viral field so that it is subject to increased diagnostic capacity. Public protection has been reported that there is a particular concern that the lack of virological performance is a type of bottleneck in the general condition of the pandemic. It's not going to be a pleasure, and it's not just about wrestling with Covid-19, it's about other waves in the future where we may have potential problems with other diseases.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u36	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer, who could not answer all the questions. I'd like to reiterate the question on the subject of sample testing: Can tourists and Iceland really order an appointment at Icelandic genetics and continue to receive free screening, as it has been, instead of paying 15,000 bucks. A price at the border? Is that possible? I'd like to ask about the travel limit for the people who are waiting for a conclusion. Will there be any restrictions on public transportation, as seen in many parts of Europe? Can people waiting for a decision get on a bus? How's the top? A minister is to follow their travels or those of others who wait for a decision? It was shown in a case of the highest order. Prior to this day, prime minister that a sample taken would not be stored but would be destroyed but the information recorded would be recorded. We have not heard anything like it when it comes to the specimens that have already been taken. It would be nice to get an answer from the highest level. Minister on the specimens that have already been taken. Has it been deleted or stored?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u37	A respectable president. As we have seen, many of the questions presented here are being answered. Senator. Each day is filled with questions and answers that are really part of the environment of this project. V.E.G. Today, one prime minister reports that the vision will not be stored in itself, but statistical information will be preserved because it may be important to make decisions in the future. Hv. A senator also asks about people waiting for a conclusion, whether it is stopped, whether it is excluded from public transportation, etc. The unit is, as it has been observed at the meetings so far, that while people wait for the results of a sample, they are expected to be able to move around, as it were, to register in a hotel room or whatever it is and wait for the results to arrive. I hope so. A senator will hold these inquiries to everyone when I meet with him. The welfare committee will be here in the next few days. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u38	A respectable president. Today, the first trinket meeting was held in May 25 when Alma, Þórólfur, and Víðir crossed the state and ratings of the country that is planned for more than a week. It is known that we have had good results, and we all want it to continue. We are grateful to our qualified specialists for their success, and we must also not forget to be grateful to the people in the land who worked hard to achieve this fine result by participating in and having limitations in daily life and employment freedom. I think all the public opinion and the nation is that our health - care providers were among the most important things to us, their work and their contribution, to all others. Today, the surgeon general and I heard of the threat of opening the country, the health - care system being run without nurses. Take-offs will not be carried out without nurses, and the screening procedure in all the pandemic has been performed primarily by nurses. In this regard, I ask the highest. Secretary of finance whether he is concerned about the situation of the controversies and negotiations with nurses. Can he see the results of a nurse's strike? Does he consider a solution and then a solution to the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u39	A respectable president. Of course, all of us are concerned that we do not make agreement with important health groups. But we've made a correct agreement about that. 80% of the public staff who had contracts available last year. We also had a few weeks ago with nurses, but these contracts were sadly taken care of in their votes. As long as we're having this conversation here, I assume that there's still a meeting between the government's negotiation committees and the nurses for the next steps we'd like to take to get a good solution for both parties. However, we cannot negotiate in such a way that the terms of the other agreements of the State are all in an upset state. We can't do that. We focus on staying within the extent that other contracts have developed and are largely based on the scope of the biographies agreements. But we've reached a turning point in this deal. For example, consider the short work week. For those walking very long shifts, the workweek is being shortened for up to 32 hours, but the general rule is to shorten it to 36 hours. That was a basic requirement. We have also been working to raise the basic wage. It seems that all that remains to be accomplished is the public pay team, but it is the immediate purpose of today's meeting to try to figure out what keeps us from finishing our contract after this vote. In itself, I have nothing more to say about this matter than that the government's will has been always there to complete its contracts and has been an excellent success in that conversation over the last few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u40	A respectable president. I'll agree with the highest. Of course, the secretary of finance is concerned, the interests are that way, and time is simply very limited. But it remains that we do not face the challenge of looking forward to a possible strike if these cases had been taken out of more serious and more responsibility during the election season. We do not agree that several days before opening the border, there is still a conflict with the profession that will lead to the screening process and make sure this is going well. It has been very late since the discussion of opening up the country that this task will not be solved by nurses in a strike. This situation is not just a threat to the project, as a surgeon rightly said, but a threat to all of us. It is important that the State do not neglect investments in the interior. Immorality will become a debt, and the public will pay them a debt, especially if the flight from a nurse we know to be a reality continues. It cannot be overlooked that this is equal and that nurses are women's class. [[The president calls.]] Running out of the class is the obvious sign of marketing failure, and it is sadly obvious that due wages will come and that the contract will not be overlooked. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u41	A respectable president. It is true that negotiations were canceled, but 46% of nurses wanted to back up the deal that their agreement committee had made with the State. I absolutely refuse that the case has not been handled during the election season or in recent years. Likely, this is among the contracts that have been done most in recent years by the State. There is nothing more than that men have simply failed to get together, and from the state's perspective, it cannot be agreed with demands that are fueled by the general government labour agreements. Or is it being claimed that it did not matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u42	A respectable president. With the rising sun, we are often filled with optimism and smiles. I'd like to allow me to use the term unprecedented, we've been going through unprecedented winters, years before violent storms, and the consequences they had, and so on, in this unprecedented state of the Korean epidemic that has been infested the world. Now we're about to lose weight, we're visiting the country in a week, and I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance whether he and his Ministry of finance, because I know he's awake and asleep in this and has truly experienced the conflict we've been going through with the Koreans of the year, having some forms, something he owns for us, the brightest picture or the blackest? Well, we're sailing into complete uncertainty. As I say and reiterate optimistic and smiling, we have been almost like cows that have been let out in the spring after relaxing here in the country. We've probably won the first stage against the virus, but we know, and a psychiatrist and others have said that we're not just probably gonna have to go through another shock. It has also been recognized that this will be an enormous cost of attacking the measures to take on today's border. At the top. Will Minister of some stage for us, the brightest, the blackest, demonstrate the economic gain it means going to this opening right here and now?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u43	A respectable president. Yes, we have endeavored to draw up the economic effect of keeping it closed or open. These are no sciences, it is not possible to specify a gram exactly what the effect will be, but they are working with quite endless numbers of variables, many of the uncertainty factors, some of which you sometimes feel, e.g. about the behavior of tourists. For example, surveys show that if we look at only the point of the tourist attraction and the possibility of their arrival in the country, the usual tourist is less likely to go on the road even though there are some advantages. Men will be paying attention to themselves. Nor can it be minimized that many have suffered economic setbacks. Because of the failure of many, many have lost their job, so they are out of the way to travel. It gives me an example of uncertainty that affects the overall picture. But we do know that we are far more concerned about all the products in this country. At the present time, I look at the matter in such a way that our economic mission is to restore jobs, create new ones, create new values. We have lost tens of thousands of jobs, and all that can help us regain the production power in our country is needed. But we are trying to come to earth with caution in terms of these openings. Similarly, we are trying to make peace with the screenings that are in our discussion these days to show that we are going to be careful and learn every step of the game and what it takes to rethink.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u44	Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I couldn't agree with him. Of course, we must do whatever we can to try to create the work that can be done. I was more thinking about how much more and less we're building on some projections, like I know from a budget committee, so we're not sure about this. I wondered about the tremendous cost of doing this. Some 170 billion were spoken of. K. The cost for the first two weeks was 500 tourists arrived in the country. The rate of possibly 1000 is now listed, and the cost will probably be higher, at least 1 000. These two weeks. It is a number of other costs, as is another step in which we can find one. We're marketing our land in the country for Icelanders at the same time as we're attacking a major marketing campaign to get people to us. Icelanders are already reacting and traveling quite a bit within the country. In the past, we even felt that there was no room for us at home because we were so popular. [[The president calls.]] I'm thinking about who's involved right now when we may be seeing a drug for the virus. There are so many things going on. But I'd like to know if it's the highest. Ministers have seen something clearer than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u45	A respectable president. I think it's right that we simply publish our summary or, after the events, give it to the council, I'm sure. It's not a secret document, it's nothing but being out. It is worth the effort to evaluate the economic effects. In terms of the cost, I view it as very important for us to be careful and to be careful about the information we will obtain, e.g. by screening, the value is immense. We may well receive such information that we can make a new decision based on evidence; screening data, research on the likelihood of it in some large population of tourists that it is so, and so many infections. And if the odds are negligible, we can make a new decision, saying: "It may not be worth the effort, and it may not be necessary to take them into consideration. [[The president calls.]] But it's a big decision you don't make just like that without the evidence to base your decision on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u46	A respectable president. It has been a pleasure to observe how well governments have responded to the Covid problem since his arrival in early February. All measures have been taken in terms of moderateness and equality, and emotions have not been stirred, as we have seen in many countries around us and even in neighboring countries. Therefore, in my opinion, the decision was made at the beginning of May to actually close the border of Iceland by requiring that the people be taken under a contagion that would come here for 14 days. Especially did I find it strange to make such a decision at the beginning of May when it had been found that this was not a big hurry for tourists to come into the country and perhaps was unnecessary, and then, in the light of a moderate rule, to make such a decision. However, the decision has now been made to eliminate this requirement in part by allowing people to accept a screening session or to purchase a screening session, rather, since June 15. This is actually the requirement for individuals who come here, for it may not be realistic to intend to accept a 14 - day environment. There is also the fact that humans have wanted to follow our most skilled doctors and specialists, but experts reveal the benefits and aims of examining. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister may not agree with his 90's, and he may object to requesting that all tourists who come here have these tests or are under arrest. Would it not still be an option to be more moderate in this, as with, e.g. Pop tests? [[The president calls.]] I'd especially like to mention new news about how we can take care of more than 2,000 people a day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. It is part of what has been discussed in the community over the past few weeks, whether it is the right decision to take samples from passengers who come to the country and from every individual. Like what? A senator points out that we have had good luck to follow the advice of the best people we have in every step. At the same time, however, it should be thought that every step has been considered. It is not that everyone agreed on the steps taken so far. Rather, he has had discussions with his colleagues at all levels of the matter and then reached conclusions he brings in a memo to me as health - care minister on the basis of a disinfectant law. It is his job to recommend a health minister at any given time regarding the next steps. It is the counseling of a psychiatrist at this point to take special care to open the door to visitors, both tourists, and, of course, Icelanders who live abroad and want to come home. Hv. A senator asks for an equal order and a moderate measure. We feel that when it comes to a choice, when it is possible for a person to take either way, get an economist for a sample, they are subject to a view. On the other hand, I have said that, and a Dentist's has also maintained that this project is such that we need to have a direct evaluation of its quality and rightness, as it would require.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u48	A respectable president. As a result, I don't think it's a day too early that the country will open up and eliminate the unprecedented ban on the environment. At the press conference today, I reported that there were limits to how many tourists could come here every day or 2,000 people. We have no idea if such numbers are interested in coming here. According to a surgeon, through July 2,000 people would be screened for infection. Therefore, I mention the answer because if you start to limit how many people are able to enter the country and enjoy the resources offered here, you are going to be opposed to such a measure and a moderate measure. Then I wanted to ask the highest. Secretary of the remuneration, whether it is more advisable to consider the legal basis for the remuneration and whether there is a bill coming in on it at the council. I know the principles in both the treatment laws and the health care laws on payment obligations, and I do not find there a legal warrant for such a payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u49	A respectable president. I thank you again. A senator for her input, which I think is very important. Exactly how people discern the steps to take, and what is the right time to take that step is the manifestation of a democracies community, that we do not just walk the same way and bow our heads. It's not a healthy society that such a thing does. On the other hand, I would like to say that in terms of demonstrations and receipts for them, according to my Ministry, this law is at hand in the 1st quarter. 5 mg. Twenty-nine. legislation on health insurance and is intended to implement a health care provider's Regulation on the basis of their legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u50	Mr. President. This is not the most complex adjustment proposal ever made in this room. She's on it. 1640 and 1 1 1. The bill, in fact, is legal. It's like after 11:00. A new article, as follows: ▪ The Word ▪ and the Headquarters of the lenders to the 6th class of 1 mg. 57st. The law will fall away. This is to guard the inner harmony of the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u51	A respectable president. There were definite comments in the 2nd. ... aboutit. Hv. The General and Education Committee decided to reexamine the situation further and brought in guests from the head of state taxation, Percontainment, and the Board of Education to review certain aspects of the case better. The result of this conversation and that view was to make a slight adjustment of 3 mg. Section 12. which involves specifically explaining which information of the head of the tax will be required to submit to the act of the law. The words were not clear enough earlier, so we decided to sharpen them. The mention of the largest part shows that Article 12. is in full agreement with the laws on personal protection and processing of personal information, and this has been done very carefully. That's the result. Another factor is that the committee did not think it was time to have 7 mg. 30. g. ... inthelaw. The Commission has concluded that it is desirable for the Ministry to continue considering these applications in consultation with the relevant parties, but it is not time to establish these ideas in the legal sense at this time. So the committee suggests 7 mg. 30. g. ... goout. Also, a slight adjustment of regulations was required for temporary review of the law's regulations, that it be in the fallfloor of 1923 and not in the fallage of 2026. The committee proposes the adjustment proposal that has been made. A Birgir Ármannsson of a year was absent, but he signed this opinion according to Article 4. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. There's also the opinion of why. Councilmen Páll Magnússon, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Guinsdotttir, Birgir the son of Ármannsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Árnadóttir Þóra Arannadótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u52	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the talk and her review of this fine subject in many respects. In my speech, I said that there are many benefits in this matter about the scholarship of students, and that is important. But what I've been worried about is the growing cost of the case. The number of levels needed to be increased, up to 15 staff who need to be added to the new scholarship fund of students. I'd like to draw the attention of a committee party 1st, my share from what happened. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Kolbrunnadóttir, where she'll go over it a little bit, and she'll even do it. that, in the treatment of the case, the 1st remain unscrupulous explanation for the growth of employees in the fund. This rapid development in the bill allows for an increase in the activities of other institutions, but is also not expected to increase the number of employees in those institutions. I just wanted to get it past you. Senator. I think this is very important in this discussion now and the economic situation we face. There are many areas of management that need to be adjusted because of the high cost of government funds and a high regard for government funds as a result of a virus epidemic. This is a proposal to increase the number of state employees by 15 prices at approximately 150 million. K. every year. I've had a detailed review of this, okay? Senator? Is it not possible to change here and reduce this huge number of workers? Has the committee done a detailed review? Is this the way to pass this important matter absolutely necessary?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. Yes, the committee reviewed it as thoroughly as possible in the light of the situation, if it answers the question. Since there are a number of uncertainties involved, we felt that it was important to enforcate a three - year bill of revision. Then there's a natural problem with the Covid epidemic and other things that require even more uncertainty and no human can provide for the number of students, dating and other things. What we know is that by the laws on the scholarship to students, there will truly be changes in the work, with the people who serve as students. But it's just as if we can't predict exactly how much population this will require, so much of the part of it just felt that it was a point to be evaluated and to see when the operation began with a change in the profile of the need. This was also shown in our talks in 1st and 2rd. ... aboutit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. If I understand correctly, then what? A senator may come into it in the second answer, but it is not clear if it needs those 15 standards. Is it possible that they will be fewer? Well, I'm sure I'm glad that's a three-year accountant's rule. What I think is strange about this, as I mentioned, is presented in a minority list of whales. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún brown Year's Árnadóttir, is expected to increase the pressures and pressures of other institutions associated with this bill, but there is no need to increase the number of employees. However, the funds need to be increased by 15 status values. Mr. President. I'm very involved in this matter, but I find it difficult to support the growth of 15 places, in view of the economic situation of society and financial resources, sitting on a financial committee. There's an increase in expenses by 150 million. K. every year. It's just that it's really hard for me to support this case on those terms, even though there's a lot of good things in the bill. In case of a moment. A senator may introduce an assessment, and it may show that these numbers may not be needed. There's a considerable difference, e.g. Five points or 15, for example. In case of a moment. A senator might find out more about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u55	Mr. President. As I said before, the more part of the committee, in its members, repeated this point. It is well understood from the senator that this increase in workers is just a assessment made by the loan fund on the basis of the work that will take place when new laws take effect. This is only their assessment of the activities and services they perform today and the services that they will need to perform when the law takes effect. It is clear to the senator that there is nothing to say that there will be a 10 or 15 increase; but, of course, we need to weigh it better when people understand the extent and when uncertainty issues that we cannot help begin to be explained only in time. As I said, we, who participated in the discussion on the part of the section, have come to realize that this is something that must be only within parentheses for a while and then assessed when the operation is started with a changed format.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u56	V.E.G. President. It may be time for me to account for some committee party. previous speakers discussed the matter. In the latter stage, I decided to return a special party. I had been on the case on my own, but I didn't feel that what I thought was missing, if I could put it that way. I'm gonna go over the odds, but I'm gonna split it up into two pieces. The first is about the values in which the Ministry of Education and Culture in the Committee stated that the Education Fund is getting more management funds to meet the increased requirements for fund service as well as the result of an additional 101.715 status set at the High Education Fund. Like what? paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir Gunsdottir mentioned earlier that we talked about this quite recently when we had this case here at the council Hall, that it seems that there is a need to increase our status, but at the same time, we have not yet been told why. That's about it. 35 people who are now working for the fund called today the loan Fund of Icelandic students. When we were discussing this matter, I was not content with not getting those answers. I wanted those answers. There is also another factor, that is expected to increase the number of employees in these institutions in my opinion in the form of a '- and still is not expected to be increased by other institutions. The number of costs and especially the cost may have been better illustrated when we were evaluating the impact of costs on these legislation. My second comment turns to what we have called the Caste Fund of Students and turns to financial guise, if we can call it that way. According to financial and economic evidence, the financial and financial sector of the loans has been discussed by the Commission on whether to change the category of the Agency since being in Part B to Part A. The Council's conclusion would be that the Agency should probably be classified to Part A. However, in the treatment of the case of the Commission it was stated that the loan fund rather fell under the definition of C-sections, as stated at around 50. Laws on Public Economics, No. 123/2015. I think it's a little stick together and I don't quite understand it, because we also know that this may have some effect on the entire budget. So I think it is very important that this category be taken into consideration by the Ministry of Education and Culture in consultation with the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. Finally, though, I would like to make a special point that we discussed the Service Fund's issues very well and were met by many things. However, the following two points remain, and I decided to return a minority party.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u57	A respectable president. With regard to Article 1 opinion, the memory of the part of the General and Education Committee, which is correct. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir went very carefully, I just want to point out, so they say here, that the committee received a detailed memo, including from the Ministry of Education and Culture, which follows the evidence of the case, which explains the activities that will be added to employees of the fund who may explain, at least to some extent, this evaluation of the increase in standard values. It's like I said before in answer to the answer to the question. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, covered more parts of this in his committee, and this was also mentioned several times in the debate at the Assembly Hall. The evaluation would, of course, be bound to a measure of uncertainty and will become one of the things needed to become apparent when the function begins with a changed format. We share all these concerns, perhaps not to worry, but this is uncertain, and that is fact, and it cannot be explained any better than it has been. This is a speculative evaluation. But for the second part, about the A, B, or C part, we also have a very good memo from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, where they express their opinion on this. However, it was not the committee's job to determine the way the Agency enters the financial situation. As a result, the committee did not take sides in this regard. But each of us can have our own opinion of it, and that's all right. [[The president calls.]] Otherwise, there's been some solid agreement on the subject, and I hope so. A senator can agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u58	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. I realize that the entire environment of the education fund is more complicated than the loan fund has been so far. We're discussing both strengths and loans, it's not just insurance loans, there's unsecured loans, there's borrowing can be done on loans and there's a number of complications. What I'm looking for may be that I felt that the lack of analysis of what it really is to be done and what it would be like to be needed for 10◯15 employees, I just wanted it to be clear as to why this increase was going to happen. I'm fully aware that we're going into a new place. I know no one's ever been here in this environment before, but I think somehow it's like we're shooting at it so fast that we're going to need this kind of like 101⁄215 employees, but a better stage, as it is often used today, I would've chosen. The other is so different with a Part A, B, and C, that to me it was very important to ensure that the education fund could have its own perks. By opening it up as you do, even if it doesn't touch this bill directly, it tells me that the Ministry of finance may as well take money out of this fund and change it to something else. And if that's what I'm trying to do, I'm a little worried about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u59	A respectable president. I present a very simple adjustment proposal I made to make. O.R., to remove 26 st. The bill. First, though, I'd like to be glad that the more part has made some changes between the 2nd and the 3rd. "Or., in particular, the one who was pointed out on the subject "to narrow 12. Article 5 of the publication of the Treaty's Directive, which covers the obligation of the tax manager to provide information, to become clearer and better agreed to the government tax manager's work. His work does not generally include interpretation of the procedure of law on education. It is good for the law to be tighter and more specific so that those who receive it should be able to perform their tasks without having to doubt what is required of them or have to do some legal work to find out how to respond to the requests for their information. That's a good thing, and I'm happy for it. I also consider a change of 7 mg. 30. g. The bill makes sense. I have the opinion of the committee that much of it speaks for itself in that regard. More important, of course, it is reasonable to believe that a review of the law is available in 2023, not 2026. Then I'll go to 26. I've come forward again the motion of her departure. It was pointed out in the account of the Hall of Economics, and on further consideration it was found that the loan fund of Icelandic students has been receiving loans that have been paid to people who have gone bankrupt. Following the laws set after the collapse of 2010, if I recall correctly, the LAIN has had more problems with this and has been attending these cases than lost them in the Supreme Court. The leaders used are that IN has special interests. It is possible to interrupt an expiration deadline, as it is called, if a borrower can show that he or she has special interests because the person who has paid and borrowed has grown old does not enjoy the past's fruit. But I've been losing those things. So I guess it's coming into the bill, in 26. .. that LIN will be able when this is approved to take these loans to those who have suffered in bankruptcy. The 2nd. this article was suggested to be dismissed. When I have Silja more informal Gunnarsdóttir, it's between me and the rest. We had a conversation with the Ministry about this. There's a lot of things that came up, nothing that was surprising. But then it was the thought that I would call this adjustment back, and it would be discussed in a universal and educational committee between the 2nd and 3rd. I called the proposal back and expected it to be discussed in the General Information and Education Committee, but I have to admit, despite the best efforts. I was disappointed at the way the committee handled it, or rather, that it did not work out. We had two meetings, nothing bad to say about one of them, the other we took care of one of the parties, and we're fine with that. But then we were unable to discuss 26. that I had ordered to be removed, until the appointed times of the assembly were ended. The director started pushing very hard to figure out what to do, and we're about to complete a meeting. Of course, there is hope and evidence and duty as president, but there we were in a schedule of time, not just a schedule of time, and time was over, and the people were about to be gathered out of the meeting when they were going to discuss it. Then it turned out that we were not going to discuss anything materially on the subject mentioned but that the more part had already been found there and was to conclude that he was going to keep the article inside. I had imagined that we would all discuss this together and reach a common conclusion as named. Rather, the greater part presented a conclusion that he had already reached. I'm sorry. I don't think it's a sign of how this case is going to get the time and the kindness it should get, in my opinion. I realize that some people have a bad night. Congress officials disagree with me because the matter has been presented in the past and has been in the council for some time or so. However, I pointed out that for a long time there was no discussion of the case on the General Information and Education Committee, including Because of the Covid situation and other concerns, it was not the time of the matter in any of the Senate documents that improve it but, when we work on it. I don't doubt for one second what to do. A prominent official and other members of the greater part have done a lot of work on the case, but not with the less part of the committee meeting. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. In that case, everyone feels that at every turn, I am quite clear that this matter would be very helpful in further discussions. I can understand the viewpoint of the greater part of keeping 26. inside. It says that the bill's report, in fact, there's a big difference in the explanation you've heard from anywhere else, but it remains that what I see in it is that the LAIN was losing a case, that the Ministry had access to the contract of this bill and was able to get it in there. The debt that has been brought so far did not have the option. They were not in the financial position of the loan to have access to the Ministry and could not simply ask that the bills be inserted into the bills, which then become legal. There's a big difference between situations that I hate to see new in this way. The evidence for the Supreme Court in these matters has been that LIN has special interests. These special interests are used as logical support in the bill as it is available. That argument has been rejected by the Supreme Court. That argument doesn't make sense. My understanding of the constitution is as good as my belief that this is a constitution. But it does not change what is behind what we are doing. We're setting up a set of requirements to deal with a person losing cases in the Supreme Court that the person wants to win. I just don't think it's good enough, a respectable president. I think we should take the 26th off. The bill. Besides, I have to say, as a matter of fact, very often, that I don't think it's a simple thing that this will pass a constitution. I don't think it's obvious that the Aggressive Association is wrong in this regard. I agree that he is wrong. I think he's wrong, but I'm not sure. I therefore feel that there is something that might have been considered further than to announce the smaller outcomes of the greater part at the conclusion of the meeting of the General and Education Committee. I don't think this is a good business, a respectable president, and I have to complain a little bit about it. Hv. 3.m. The South, Birgir of Þórarinsson, at this moment because of the Covid epidemic, talked about having doubts about putting up at this time. Now that I have become I must come to my own point of view, a respectable president, which is that this is the right time to do so. This is certainly the time to support innovation, education, and such. When a lot of people don't get a job, they lose their jobs, we can use that time to prepare for the future. That's how we should, in my opinion, cope with depressions like this, give people the opportunity to use time and plant seeds into the future. I had to find out that since it was mentioned in the answers earlier. According to this, I will vote with a suggestion to remove the 26th paragraph. The bill. On the other hand, I'm going to vote with a nice change form for the rest of the section. Finally, I'd like to say that although there are all kinds of material differences between two to three smaller parts and more on the subject, I think and I hope and believe that this case will be a great success. What a blessing that will be for our ability to support students! But I am very happy that the law will be revised, because I think there are some traps there that can bite us into the toes later, and after we gain experience with this law. I strongly assume that soon we will find out about some of these things, even beyond those who have already been interviewed and not discussed enough in my opinion. Then I expect it and hope that there will be a way of meeting these matters quickly and carefully, but of course, careful research.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u60	A respectable president. Yeah, it's a huge deal and it's a great deal. It's a progressive step, I support it, and I support the adjustment proposals made. This is about almost all Icelandic families in one way or another, and hopefully it will be to strengthen this fund and enable it to live up to its role as a social equation, which has been very important in the development of Icelandic society. But there is no denying that this role may not have been cultivated as well as desirable in recent years, i.e. There are now fewer students who make good use of these loans than who prefer to work with them. Work along the way has been more effective in this country than in the countries we like to attend, and I think that's too bad. I believe that it is positive that people focus on their study, and they can be confident that the loans are sufficient for them to make progress. It would have been desirable if the greater part had agreed to our change proposals both in the lesser part, as well. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson spoke in his own time, and in my second section, where I was an authority, to try to make more sure that the forward was done, that the forward would be high enough. But it went what went on, it was killed. Still, we support the situation because there are so many things that look for improvement. I don't share the concerns that have come from overpricing the cost of growing up and pointing to the fact that the fund is not only to be a loan agency but also to play a valuable role as a service agency. In order to provide good service, good counseling, and so forth, good men are needed, and there is no need to increase the quality of this fund in order to increase and increase the level of service. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson spoke of a few early scripts that had been on the subject of how we felt at the moment. A top-of-the-art Board of Education took care of the changes he had made at 2nd. in the hope that we would settle this in the committee between discussions. As he was doing well in his talk, they were examined at a meeting of the greater part of the committee, but they did not come up with a real and serious discussion. It was kind of over and done. I think there's evidence in both directions that certain interests are concealed in the fact that the fund can live in an exorbitant debt. It is not only the interests of those who pay back loans, those who pay back, that is an equal opinion, and that is also the interests of borrowers, that the funds are sustainable in some way, and mostly. But I also have doubts that the funds as such have special interests. The sea as such is not human. The sea is nothing but a field for credit work and for a particular social equation device he is supposed to be. Investments have interests, debts have interests, but the funds such as them don't have the best interests. The sea such as this has no human rights or rights, the fund is just a fund, so I may not quite be able to get into the compromise that the funds have special interests because of going to bankrupt places and reaching out for demands. To this end, I have come first and foremost to declare support for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u61	Mr. President. First, why not? paritaprevir At the end of his speech, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson mentioned that the fund as such may not have interests. I wanted to put it in the context that if the fund isn't sustainable, somebody's gonna have to pay the bill, and that may be taxpayers. Although the fund as such may not necessarily be of interest because everything goes into financial interest, it is money that has to be paid if the fund does not succeed or it cannot survive, which, of course, comes from taxpayers and is not used for other actions. That's a dimension we need to keep in mind in these discussions. But it wasn't my business, Mr. President, to discuss this further. I, like other councilmen here who have spoken, support this matter. I think that's a big improvement in everything. I think we're getting out of this a pretty good system. I think it's important that we reevaluate it within a few years, as we now assume and that it allows us to understand more fully the changes that this will bring to us. Of course, in three years, remuneration will not be tested much, but it will be possible to understand more fully the demand for loans from this fund and its payment. After three years, at least we will be able to take the first steps to assess how we have done so. But I am like the others here who have spoken, in principle, that this is a matter of progress. The point I was going to make a comment at this point, just to mention it here on the discussion - I don't have a new proposal or anything like that, and I didn't do it at the Committee or to a previous discussion - it's stipulation 27 and 28. The bill has actually received very little attention and discussion in the entire trial. I wanted to draw attention to the changes there to make in my mind certain questions. Twenty-seventh. it is assumed that the special appeal of study articles and that a minister can, by advertising a specific temporary appeal to reimburse student loans due to certain study articles. This is a change that serves the positive goal of promoting the demand for study in certain articles, making it more acceptable for students to choose a particular subject, and, of course, it is assumed that it will be based on assessment of the need for the labour market. The same is true in pars. Based on literature articles in special areas, special considerations are expected. That's where the graffiti comes into it. In both cases, there is a goal that can be agreed to be positive. It is one thing to help students pick certain articles in which there is a lack and to encourage those who have completed their studies in areas where there is a need for educated people to live or to work in areas where there is a need for education. I must admit, however, that I have doubts about such management. In general, I am not sure that student loans should be reimbursed to encourage people to go to certain articles or to work in certain territories. I think the best way to reach such goals is simply to offer a good and competitive salary in the field or in the area where you live. I think it's a lot normal to use as an incentive, but it's some kind of control through student loan reimbursement systems. I know a lot of people in this room disagree with me about this, but I think it's a lot more desirable, for example, if they don't have any nurses at Cotasker or a doctor at Thors Harbor, to pay people a better price to work in these places rather than go to some fan about the student loan system. This is the viewpoint I wanted to present here. Another factor in this relationship that I'm not going to do any big deal about, but it feels right to mention here is in regulations 27 and 28. is, in many respects, very open to ministers to make decisions in this regard. It is assumed that the Minister can decide this with an advertisement that has the place in the legal environment. In general, I would feel that it would be better to implement rules that involve an indiscriminate appeal from the laws in the law rather than in the regulations or advertisements. That's what I wanted to say. These are not major factors in the context of this bill or in the overall context of the education loan system to be set up here. However, in order to reach the expected objectives of the 27th and 28 C.E. g., encouraging studies in specific fields or encouraging special education to select farms and fields in certain areas of the country, I believe that much is normal and that such incentives are more likely to come through what people are paid for, not how they pay back their student loans. That's what I'd like to say, in all the main matters, I support this bill. As mentioned earlier in my case, I believe that this will lead to a better outcome for learning loans and learning systems than has been so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u62	Mr. President. I would like to thank the members of the council who have participated in the discussion for their contributions because by taking a closer look at things and coming with different ideas, we usually make things better because of seeing eyes than eyes. Of course, we have only our differing political vision, so we sit here, and we have different opinions. But the rest of the matter remains to be treated. The General and Education Committee is the rich will of all members of the Committee, no matter where we are, in order to find ways to improve the interests of students. All those who have addressed this matter have said that they support it but might have wanted to change one thing and another. This is a cause for joy because there has been a great demand for changes in the learning loan system for many years, and Icelandic students have considered their status worse than students in neighboring lands. Surely, it was time to update the laws that are now in effect at the age of 30, and many things have changed at that time. We're changing the system toward another Norwegian loan system, i.e. to combine traditional loans with government support, to strengthen those who complete their education at a certain time, and also to those who have children. The red thread is a social thread, that we make it possible for everyone, regardless of their status in the community, to be able to study and thereby increase the possibility of improving their social status. It will be a big moment for all of us, hopefully tomorrow, to vote on this important matter, and once again I want to thank the committee for our good cooperation and initiative because we have definitely done a better thing. The case has received a lot of material treatment, for many years really. Current level. The Minister of Education, Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, is the third minister of the bill for legal adjustment, and in the meantime, stakeholders and members of Congress have come to the matter and much consultation and correction, so I am quite sure that this will not be the case at this time. But as noted, three years from now the bill contains a revised law. This does not mean that we are so uncertain that the matter is good, that it is absolutely necessary; rather, it is just certain uncertainties in a place where no one can predict or hardly guess. It is only natural, then, that we revise the legislation in three years and take it back. Mr. President. I thank you again for the most enjoyable and productive cooperation on the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u63	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying something. The speaker who last mentioned that the debate at the Assembly Hall has been a good one and a good one, which may have been obvious right away from the start, that political emphasis and political vision are simply different. Reverence has taken a whole mind with the goal of the bill and supports it; it is aimed at ensuring university students as much as possible to study without regard for the economy and in the best way they will be done to students in the form of student loans and, on the other hand, in the form of scholarship. The support system that this bill introduces will be that the law I expect to be the result, perhaps more in the form of helping and softening the way in which students repay their loans, but will do less for students during the course of study, i.e. for the factor. It is my opinion that financial support for the students and the student loan system is a fundamental premise for ensuring equality for study and is at the same time the government's instrument for showing its political support and regard for university education. I've talked about it and I'm a bit busy because this bill, which is certainly a long delay and a long term, is being born into the conditions we're now dealing with, the economic consequences of Covid-19 or the actions that had to be taken to repair the pandemic. We face economic shock and the government, the government and the council, the management sector and the smaller parts, here in this room in a conversation about how to react to that situation. It is my firm opinion that if you are involved in that conversation, it will be good and good for the nation, you must be a vision of the future, where we are headed when this fire business is done, we can call it, it's over. I would have found that in the present situation in Icelandic society, looking ahead to the future in this human race and going further, taking harder steps, investing systematically in university education, research, and innovation, and helping out what we're going to do with college students. Of course, this is the big issue and a key theme of how we use the message that study is full - time and students are in the position of being able to secure progress by student loans and by strengthening them, that they are in a position not to have to guarantee a career advance. I would have felt important, and I would have felt stronger about this matter by answering clearly and firmly that we, along with student loans, were going to contribute a sponsor for students. In itself, I will not go back into the conversation we had in our last discussion about whether the basic development would be effective. We know this conversation, we know the reality, we know that argument, and we know that students believe it, and it has been their reality for years and decades, that it simply has not been. The study bar has not been enough for students to make progress. I also believe that the reality, the conclusion of that system, is not just the cost of students, since it costs us as a community that university students are working with students, are slowing down their careers, and is in the position of not being able to put all their students at university. Maybe that's what separates us from Backing Up at least. and more of it, though we support the bill and believe that much of it would be good and positive, in the present circumstances, so ideal that we can stop and face the situation that we are in today's situation, and that in the course of our university education, we will strengthen ourselves with the advice we have to do so. That is what we will do by raising money into the university itself. We will do so by strengthening the environment of our research in Iceland, which we will do by living a better economic situation for students to pursue. That is what we would have wanted by offering a scholarship to students. Our suggestion for that point lies ahead, and I still have the hope that it can become a reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u64	A respectable president. The matter went to the Committee between the 2nd and 3rd. This was primarily due to a hint. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún of the Year's Árnadóttir, but there was also a slight change in the bill. Now most of them are very technical, and they were tips from a committee field and I'm not going to read them. However, I would like to read here a slight change that we on the committee added to page 1 of the transitional process, which is: 4 mg. a new proverb will be added, as follows: To the extent of partnership. 43. g. has been linked to the cost of loading electrical vehicles, such as through a common electrical system, the common cost of owners, everyone or some, scr. 7.44. g., although loading equipment is available or in a specialised parking lot or in special property. This law is included in the bill, and then there are changes, a respectable president, who is hereby presented. 1636 and are the way they are. I also want it to appear from the platform between the 2nd and 3rd. asked the committee for their meeting with a representative from Reykjavík City to discuss the city's funding supplies for the loading of trucks at a central property building. Reykjavíkurburgh and PGE every three years contribute 20 million each year for three years to make provision for the homemate of apartment buildings that set up electrical supplies. The forwarding structure has gone well, and with a clearer legal approach, demand for support for electrical installations is likely to increase. Therefore, there is good reason to consider how the Kingdom can provide such building blocks, e.g. with comparable grants that would benefit all of the rural areas of the country. It is also appropriate to review what is presented in the Committee to cover the majority of the welfare committees between 1 and 2. about those who have already set up their own station and paid for their expenses. A homemate must be allowed to demand a fee for the use of a kit that has been paid in common by a housemate, not by those already set up by electric car owners. In the case of a specialised parking lot, the cost of the device is considered special, and the equipment itself is unique. However, if necessary, the person must participate in a common charge of electronic work. The committee wants to make a special statement here. I'd also like to add, a respectable president, that, according to my information and memory, during the past year's past year, a merit tax of electronic equipment, which, of course, matters to a significant degree when such projects are being carried out, and in the government's operations package now in the Covid situation, a valuable extra tax of work was dropped on your own housing for renovations and refinements. This is also beneficial, and of course, we on the committee view it as a good part of this discussion. This is useful for those who intend to enter this structure, which is important. A respectable president. This action has already contributed to the electric response in line with the management board's policy on energy exchange in road transport. And to this I hope there's a good deal here on the road that I will vote for.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u65	V.E.G. President. I couldn't support this bill as it was at the beginning and decided at late points, after having had some guests on the welfare committee, to present my own opinion that I'm going to take over here. Available bill is suggested to establish rules about how to adjust the decision-making and cost exchange in the preparation of electrical loading equipment at a multi-party site. The bill presents a significant change in the legal status of householders who need to carry the cost of loading equipment for other residents of the retail house and even demand only one owner. The bill's regulations, therefore, can bring about considerable unexpected expenses for homeowners. The smaller section considers it too far to bind the owners'hands to be involved in the installation of electric loading equipment, and it even considers the rules of the bill to cause problems between landlords. Then there's a variety of assessments and vague points in the bill that might have been clearer, such as the 5th before. which will be a new 33rd. d of my authority to postpone projects if the joint cost is considered to be an uninterrupted high. The same article stipulates that a homemate is permitted to demand a high monthly fee, which is not clarified further. An article with the bill shows that this includes: aimed at aiding electrical activity in accordance with government policies on energy exchange in road transport. For example, if an extra electrical vehicle is being aimed, it is certainly important to increase the loading potential and increase access to loading equipment. The smaller section, however, feels that the path selected in the existing bill is not best to achieve that goal. The review of Business and Service points out that economic incentives in the form of financial support of public owners, whose aim is to speed up the loading equipment set up by electrical vehicles at a central office, are a much more reasonable way than was chosen by the bill. Please refer to the fact that the city of Reykjavík has provided such grantings and has set some detailed rules about it. According to the Committee, the city's grantings are designed to stimulate and speed up energy exchange. Coalitions are based on the agreement of Reykjavíkurburg, the OR and the Agency, but the ECU and the city of Reykjavík place 20 million each year. K. Each for three years in a donation fund in 2019◯2021. The strength is given for the multi owned building of five or more apartments and is the maximum allowance for each home of 1.5 million. K. The committee noted that attendance has been quite extensive and that there has already been a scholarship for some 989 apartments. Of these, 265 have already installed a loading device. The minority believes that a legal hearing would have been comparable to government support for loading equipment rather than risking the cost of its installation to other homeowners. Does the minority feel that the committee has not allowed sufficient space to discuss various aspects of the matter, including the following articles? the possibility of altering costs, securing the rights of all landlords and the possibility of ensuring homeowners the support for loading equipment. Then there are subtle details in the bill that might have been clarified. The minority cannot support the issue's approval.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u66	Mr. President. I recommend a board of members with a bill-change proposal to correct the animal import law. The matter went to a professional committee between the 2nd and 3rd. and we were contacted by the Daðadóttir Djoddddóttir and the Þorvaldur H. Þórðarson of Food Institute. There were also reviews from Iceland's Animal Protection Association, the Association of Responsible Dog Owners and Greenker Association in Iceland. I'm just going to swerve what came out of the Committee work between the 2nd and 3rd. Therefore, a review to the Committee considers whether there is a reason to revise the wording of a law on how animals are treated without permission or when they escape travel. In this context, there is also a difference between the two groups. Refer to moderate size and suggest that there is always less use of measures than immediate work or disposal of an animal. The committee points out that the purpose of the adjustment made with the prescribed provision is to be balanced when animals are transported to the country without permission or released from transports. An enforcing provision requires that, in such cases, animals be placed at once. Then the committee was told that the change allows more careful measures to be used by a food management agency to provide authority for those in charge of animals to be able to send them out of the country, that conditions met that protection would not be threatened. This includes some. that as long as animal disposition measures are taken, they will be in the possession of the Food Agency. It would be desirable for such isolation to take place at the pets' reception station at Keflavík Airport, to have its import through the Cheflavor airport, while other locations would need to make appropriate arrangements for each occasion. In view of the above, the committee considers that there is no doubt about the fact that the concerned animals are under the control of the Food Agency while the measures are taken for their survival and suggest an appropriate change in the wording of the law. In handling the case for the Commission, the Ministry proposed a comparable change in Article 1 of the paragraph. the bill is for the disposition of fed or used as foetal mothers and their offspring after unsaturable import of sperm, eggs or embryonics. Where such animals are Icelandic, i.e. Born in Iceland, it is considered preferable to have a food management risk assessment carried out before making a decision regarding a procedure. In some cases such a risk assessment might even result in the lack of execution and expulsion, but it would be permitted on grounds of disease prevention, according to other laws. The committee agrees with these views, according to the objective of the bill on the use of a moderate measure of design and suggests an appropriate change in the bill. The review of the company of responsible dog owners suggests that in the case of an animal's authority, a third party has been assigned to move it to the country by transport transport transporter, it is not proper for a person to carry the cost of the disposal or transport of an animal when it escapes from a carrier. The Commission wants in this context to remind us that the decision to move animals from abroad or to put them out of the way is based on a view of how to respond to transmissible measures and therefore should not be considered a penalty for animal import law. In terms of the opinion of the individual's costs, the carrier could be considered responsible for transporting the animal during the transfer. In case of error, the cost of transport should be determined by the owner of an animal's agreement, and the conditions for the transfer are valid. In view of the above, however, the committee considers it proper to make more clear that the person responsible for the migration of an animal who accidentally escapes from an animal must immediately take steps there to make adjustments. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: Instead of verses 3 and 4, paragraphs 1 of paragraphs 3 and 4. If there are five new proverbs, as follows: The animal's manager who is brought in without a warrant should immediately take steps there at his own expense. Similarly, if a person is responsible for the accidental discharge of an animal, arrangements should be made at his own expense immediately. While the measures taken for the disposition of unsaid or escaped animals are taken, they should be isolated from the Food Agency. In the same way, the lungs, semen, or embryos should be destroyed or sent out of the country at the expense of an immigrant, as well as animals which may have been contaminated or used as fetuses and offspring that may have been born after unsurpassed imports. However, it is permitted to conduct a risk assessment for the transmission of infectious diseases prior to the decision made according to the 6th case and may be based on this decision allowing a stay on the country to meet the criteria. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson, who was absent from the case, signed this opinion in accordance with section 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Council and Precautions of the Council. Under the heading this article, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, daughter of Elíasdóttir Flandersfjörður, Halla Friðriksson Kristjánnsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðbertsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjonsdótir, Sigurður Páll Jónsson, and Jów. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson, in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u67	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna come up here on this committee opinion and thank you. Chairman of the Commission, Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir, for its transfer. I'm in this case, and I wanted to tell it here in the pita that I am glad that the case changed, as shown in the case of the historian and, as it says here, by permission of the president: In 1st. The bill will be presented with new proverbs, as follows: Then, at their own expense, the guardian of an animal that is brought in without a warrant must immediately take steps there. Similarly, if a person is responsible for the accidental discharge of an animal, arrangements should be made at his own expense immediately. While the measures taken for the disposition of unsaid or escaped animals are taken, they should be isolated from the Food Agency. [...] However, it is permitted to conduct a risk assessment with respect to transmissible agents prior to decision-making. Case six. and can on the basis of that conclusion allow us to stay on the land to meet the criteria. I completely agree with this point, and this led me to put my affairs into practice. In view of the fact that we have to be very careful about the prevention of disease and contamination, especially in the conditions we've been going through in the past few months, I have been concerned about the importance of being careful about these matters, and I am happy that this change has been proposed. We should keep it in all other imports, e.g. For the import of raw meat, there's work to do and we'll discuss it better later. But I'm happy for these changes, and I'm on the side of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u68	President. First thing I want to do is thank the spokesman for the case, okay? paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney, the head of the employment committee, for so much benefit from this decision on animal risk management and the import of the animal with respect to animal protection, ensures that the environment is well controlled but adds concomitant animal protection. That's very good. There were debates in this regard from Iceland's Animal Protection Association, the Association of Accountable Dog Owners and Greenker Association, which are the road-based organizations in Iceland, which determine their lifestyle to guide the well-being of animals, whether it is a person's choice or style. In the bill as it came from the Minister says, by permission of the President: Investigm, who are transferred without permission or released from transport missions, should be promptly plowed and discarded free at the costs of the applicant, so that there is no danger. However, a food - control agency is permitted to allow the immediate sending of such animals to the land to prevent the threat of transmission of infectious diseases. As a pilot went through the past, this has been significantly changed in order to keep an eye on the well - being of animals. It was also pointed out that this was at the expense of the person who was bringing the animal, even though it was not his fault. However, if the animal escapes or some sort of error occurs, it is at the expense of the owner or the immigrant. Suppose the animal was placed in a contour or something, and it escapes. It was also corrected, which is very good. This bill is about the change in animal import law in terms of disease prevention and isolation centres, and there's been a great deal of overexcited action, as I'm saying, the animal-structor on the basis of what was mentioned above. But the reason I'm on notice is that there wasn't one thing I would have wanted to see. It is home - to - house coverage, not just for animals that serve as helper dogs for the blind or for the like. They may be given the opportunity to have the animals under their own districts. I felt that it could have been handled better. Was it not during the previous committee party that had something to say about this? I'm on notice, but otherwise it's very well done, in almost all places, to promote an animal success in this bill, I want to thank you. I wanted to say at the end of this discussion that the committee's opinion says: "Jón Þór Ólafsson was away from the case, but he signed this opinion according to a 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Synods of the Council, and in advance. I wasn't away because I had called in the meeting. I had to step off a meeting to pick up my children, but I went to the telecommunications meeting. Although I did not have the right or the right to vote at the meeting, I continued to sit in session and freedom of speech. Then it's just corrected in here by mouth.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u69	Mr. President. We here discuss a bill to correct a change in the animal import law and have every reason to express delight in the positive changes that have taken place at the General Assembly. For that, I want to thank you as soon as I thank you. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Electrical Rafney for the story and for the very firm leadership of a professional board. That was the case with the apostle Peter. When it came to leaving a committee party, we were at ease. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson put our names under the opinion of the committee in advance. The premonition was that we signed the committee opinion, confident that between 2 and 3. these committees would meet the experts who could confirm that with the approved bill there was no threat to the spread and control of the animal due to its import. It all went along, like they've heard here. For a meeting between 2 and 3rd of the Committee. There were good guests, including the head of an animal doctor and a food company representative, who has an important role in this subject. The bill has changed a lot this way. First, it is mentioned in a committee program that most members of the committee are on, including at the back of the day. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson without warning this time, says, with president's permission: The Commission focused on the import prevention and risk management of animals and concludes with the information presented during the treatment of the problem that, with the approved bill, feed source measures are being made to ensure optimal risk of contamination and to minimise as far as possible the risk of import of the animal to the country. Mr. President. I would like to express my great satisfaction with the emphasis being made on the environment protection and employment committee. As mentioned, this is a matter of concern to all of us in view of the viral epidemic that this world has been dealing with in the last few weeks and months. I can see that there are other cases of infection and disease prevention waiting to be dealt with and treated at the scene. Business committee. Hence, it is most enjoyable that the committee has actually taken a policy in highlighting this aspect of the matter along with other emphasis, of course. It's done quite well here, any changes that have occurred on the bill. The main concern is the treatment of animals transferred into the country without permission or when they escape from transport. It is concluded by the Committee, as mentioned in the Committee, that there should be any doubt that the concerned animals should be kept under the control of the Food Agency while making arrangements for their survival. The committee suggests an appropriate adjustment of the wording of the law, as found in the committee's opinion. I will not extend this discussion by discussing any further changes. They are very much the same ride, as the ancient writings say, making it a pleasure that I can support this bill as soon as I thank the members of the committee for their enjoyable cooperation in this matter as so many others can, with special appreciation for it. Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u70	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but I'm just going to bring this important subject up briefly. This is an important issue, indeed, because valuable things are because we keep our livestock especially from outside the reach of infectious diseases. Therefore, it is extremely important to be extremely careful when it comes to importing animals, and all of these errors can cost us dearly. I want to thank you specifically for the Committee's work and thank you for taking into account the viewpoint of the Central Committee member who requested further discussions and special attention on the transmission and transmission of infectious diseases. It is a joy to see that a good cooperation was made with the committee on these matters, and thanks to the fine work there, I give special thanks to the chairman of the committee. It is stated that in this context the Committee wishes to remind us that the decision to move animals out of the country or to lay them is based on the view of how to react to the transmissible measures and therefore should not be considered a penalty on the import law of animals. In terms of the opinion of the individual's costs, the carrier could be considered responsible for transporting the animal during the transfer. I think it's very important. Sadly, this has happened at Leifs Station, when animals have been brought in, that they have escaped, and that is not so long ago. An extensive search and costing of the animal that was eventually found took place. But it is clear that there is a need to be clear who should pay the cost. In this particular case, the rescue forces came across a project that again tells us how many of their assignments are and how important they are to us here in Iceland and the good work they do. I'm especially happy that the costs are discussed here. I also wanted to introduce it in this context how important this matter is, and we should also look to other factors, for example. To our unique horsekind, the Icelandic horse, and how fragile he is for infectious diseases on the outside. Sadly, many horse stems from abroad have a wide range of infectious diseases, causing major problems in the continent, Britain, and Sweden, for example. In this case it is very important to protect the equipment that needs special disinfection, dependence, and so on. Horsemen who go to exposés need to be very careful on that subject. I just wanted to make this right here because it shows us how much is at stake. We have this clean livestock stock in Iceland, and I specifically named the Icelandic horse, he is very sensitive to the infectious diseases that might be transmitted to the country. Thus, they need to be very careful. But this is a good thing, and I thank the Committee for a good job and for taking into account the viewpoints that the middle class specifically mentioned in that work. Here is an important and good step in protecting the value of our stocks in Iceland and their purity.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u71	Mr. President. I'd like to recommend a committee party. the welfare committee for proposal for interpretation resolution of moral values and priorities for health care. Case of any consequence, i.e. The basis for the case actually lies in the course of health policy adopted here at a council about a year ago, but, of course, it has much deeper roots. The commission received visitors, as mentioned in the National Institutes of Development, Iceland's Medical Association, Iceland's National Institute of Moral Health and the University of Iceland. Perhaps, a respectable president, it may be said that there were no more reports, but it may not be so surprising, since the work involved was quite a few people and a considerable effort was made to win the case back then and that it put the interests of the interests of the people to it. The aim of the Parliamentary arrangement is to set up values that should be guided by priorities in Icelandic health care. The first and first values are man-sanity and shall go beyond other values. Next comes the need and solidarity, which is referred to as the quality of those who have the greatest need for health care. Next comes practicality and efficiency. The interpretation proposal for its origin in a discussion of moral values and priorities in the health - care system held in November 2019 It is proper to also say, Mr. President, that this is, for the first time, a policy like this case. Of course, prior work has been done with material such as priorities in health care, last to some extent in 1998, 22 years ago, during the Ministerial period Ingibjörg Ingenda Pálmadóttir, then a health minister, if I do not fail terribly less. I think I have the right memory. This matter is something to be expected, which requires constant renewal. - There's a little trouble in the side room, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u72	President wants to ask why. Senators to keep the side room down.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. For the first time, the synonym is formally defined by the values of Icelandic health care services. It seems that in view of the comments given to the committee, general agreements regarding the values selected have been made. It is important to note that the Ministry had extensive consultations with the judges in preparing the proposal. Health organizations, patient organisations, and the educational community came to prepare a healthcare meeting and participated in the modeling of these health care priorities. It's safe to say, to have been at the largest preparatory meeting that took a good part in a whole day, that there was a really fun and fertile debate going on. That conclusion comes from there. In the treatment of the case before the Commission, particular discussion was made of the use of the term "mess " and whether it was the best concept to describe the vast rights that should be of the first and most important value. The detailed and detailed review of Iceland's Medical Association pointed out that in the ethics of medical science, the concept is the ethic of a four - key respect and is the meaning of not harm, of giving information, of supporting self - determination, and of maintaining the right distance. The other three pillars are a measure of goodness, i.e. to provide help and compassion or a requirement for close, fairness, or demand equal treatment and justice, and respect for the individual's self - determination. According to the Medical Association, therefore, a higher concept would be worth a person's worth. Rather, it should be used in the conclusion. Similarly, according to a legal dictionary, the term "sanity " is defined as" narrowness, " as a protection of the nearest rights of individuals, i.e. the right to life, the penis, the honor and the privacy. On the discussion of the matter with the Committee, however, the view that the term "sanity " is extensive and has profound appeals in Icelandic languages was also established. Thus, the term referred to space but also to valuables, protection, and rights, as well as immunity, to name something. It can be noted that the term "sanity " has recently been in the discussion in this Assembly Hall, where three of the highest levels have been observed. Ministers participated in this discussion following inquiry there, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Prime Minister, the highest. Secretary of health and the highest. Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs. Thus, there have been some soil work, as it were, in connection with this term and only in the discussion, which is well discussed. The proposal states that in view of the weekend, all the services that are expected to benefit them will be performed. Furthermore, in a report, the term "sanity " is defined as the space that every person has an uncircumcised right over. The term includes respect for each individual's dignity, as well as the right of all to preserve life and sustain health. Thus, the right to health care is fundamentally right for individuals. This is quite an important, respectable president. In effect, it is being defined as a right for health care as human rights. Under heaven, the number of rights, such as self - sufficiency, equality, and justice falls. Therefore, to provide relevant information to health care users at the right time is part of respecting privacy according to the evidence, as well as providing patients in a similar position of service and to ensure that there is equal access to health care. Considering the matter, the Committee has decided not to comment on the use of the term "sanity " but to emphasize its understanding of the concept that it covers all the factors mentioned above, i.e. Not just the right to life and members but the right to self - determination, equality, and justice. They're lower than people's privacy. They have needs and solidarity. It suggests that those who have the greatest need for health care at any given time will be affected. It is important to be careful of the rights of those who are in a delicate position and therefore cannot seek their own rights. Furthermore, the needs of the community in general should be looked at and so directed toward the prevention and public health in order to promote public health. It is important that, in the discussion and discussion of the committee, a respected president, be advised that much of the groups we especially need to look at were discussed. It refers to groups such as some groups of elderly, disabled individuals, people with addictions, people with certain types of mental disorders, etc. These are among the other groups, and this is not exhaustive, Mr. President, for which we need to look in particular. A review of Iceland's National Institute of Scilogy found that in discussing the proposal for this point, there was no discussion of solidarity as a basis for social care. A stand could thus refer to a common insurance system and a collective responsibility. The committee agrees with these views and rights of the Icelandic health system as a national partner, with a collective responsibility for protecting the country. So the committee suggests a change in the proposal to highlight a meeting of health care for all. Commenting on the matter, the National Institutes of Development noted that in all countries health systems there is a danger of discrimination between disabled persons in access to health care. There would be an even greater risk in times of health care or crisis. The discussion of the case with the committee pointed out that some disabled persons were highly dependent on health care and that the disabled were treated with respect for their self - determination rights and their equal right to health care. In a pandemic crown virus, for example, in Europe, disabled patients were identified as being less precarious to prioritise in the health system. Deep - seated prejudices against disabled people increase the risk of being disabled to the rear when circumstances demand patients' priorities. The committee claims that this is a clear violation of the equal rights of the disabled to health care. Special attention should be given to the 25th United Nations Convention on the rights of highly validated disabled people who forbid the abuse of disabled persons in access to health care. Health care professionals and authorities must constantly protect the rights of the disabled to the same extent of access. A respectable president. I think this can be emphasized in particular. That's what I know of myself, and it's just part of this discussion that is signed by a synoptic proposal to keep track of aging prejudices. You have to stay on the watch all the time. Third, the values that should guide priorities in Icelandic health care are practical and effective. The costs and benefits of the decision to treat will be shared, although with respect to privacy and thus equality and self-infliction of users will be respected. In order to improve practicality, health institutions need to improve and create new technologies. Furthermore, economic benefits can be increased by increasing awareness of the health and prevention of society. Moral health care values are designed to guide government decisions, health - care professionals, and health care professionals. As we have seen, the values are not done as high under the head. They are the most important and fundamental value of public life. Then comes need and solidarity and, finally, practicality and efficiency. While practical and effective measures should be guided by health care services, there will be respect for privacy at all times in the foreground. A respectable president. This context and this order are very important, i.e. that the weekend is always the first. You cannot hide behind the fact that there is some kind of efficiency here and that this can be replaced by privacy. It's not like that. The weekend is always first. In view of its preemptive nature, priorities on the basis of their age, social status, disability, or lifestyle are not in harmony with the values of the assumption. Any other value than those stated in the determination should be placed at a lower priority in health care. The Commission supports the whole focus of the proposal on the concept of immunity beyond any other value in priorities in health care. This should always be changed primarily from respect for basic rights, including equality and self - determination. It is important to consider in particular the position of individuals in an sensitive position as previously mentioned. The importance of priorities in the case of the committee was explained by the review of the case. More and more frequently, market laws would be employed in Western health services. The Committee suggests that there is a reason to add the proposal's requirement for this subject to stress that priorities in health care should be taken into account the severity and extent of the problem. The aim of the Parliamentary arrangement is that moral values for priorities in health care will become a real guide to health care professionals. To achieve that goal, moral values need to be put into the education of the health - class. Thus, the committee considered it proper to add the conclusions on moral instruction in health care at the health - care center. Care must be taken to ensure that students have sufficient time to adopt moral values. The point of teaching needs to be discussed about the importance of the first value, the sanctity of life, a ship always higher than the value of needs or practicality. Similarly, students need to develop the ability to make decisions based on the values in situations where conflict develops between fundamental value of privacy and the demand for practicalness and effectiveness. The Committee was introduced, including The view that, in spite of this, we are focusing on education in basic medical institutions and at the education of all health groups, it would be unlikely that this approach, the moral development that humans receive on projects, and in effect, working with patients or clients in this case, would be sooner than one who had gained some experience in working. Therefore, as indicated in chapter 5, these factors are also important to be taken into account and given time to consider in all medical activities. The emphasis on education does not diminish the importance of the other. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the proposal will be accepted by the change presented in 1,◯3. ... andI'mno further trace here. It's nice to say that everyone's asleep. The welfare committee will sign the opinion of the committee, but that is why. Councilmen Helga Vala Helgadóttir, chairman of the Committee, signed, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Árnadóttir Kol Kolbrún Yearnad, in advance, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Halla Signý Kristjándótir, Halldóra Mogensen, Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnúsdótir and Vilmira Árnason. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have any more of those words, but I'd like to finally say thank you. A welfare committee for work on the case. All members of the committee have actively participated in the discussion of these values. The committee opinion, as I explained earlier, shows that all members of the committee rely on the committee to be on the committee's opinion. What a joy it is when we are talking about such matters as this, that there is a rich convergence at the council, and how important it is when we are talking about fundamental aspects of the rights of all Iceland, the right to health care!
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. He was told of the term "sanity. " The weekend would always be the first time. The sanctity of life must be a sacred place that protected the sanctity of life. We look at another person as a sanctuary that we should respect and protect. The weekend turns to life, the preservation of life. So it must be that life is precious and that it is tried to prevent it from being corrupted by all means. Then a little over a year ago, a law on abortion was passed in this chamber, where abortion is permitted through the 22nd week of pregnancy, when the fetus has reached emotional maturity and has feelings, is grown, and is able to live outside the womb if possible. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: How does that fit? A senator has stressed: "Manage always first, bill that the left green so strongly emphasized that it would be approved by the Independence Party and the forward party agreed: abortion law? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How does that harmonize with a bill as a matter of course? A senator went over here as far as human immunity is concerned? [[For example, you're wrong.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. The Senator asked about the weekend, how it was in harmony with the pregnancy violation laws. During the discussion that took place at least Don't cheat on me, and hopefully not by other members of the council, that this is where the sanctity of a mother, i.e. Her right to her own body and her right to the health care that she would prefer, on the other hand, to the alleged right of the fetus, and to when the right is actually taking over. When can we define an unborn embryo that is viable? I say what to do. A senator in this relationship to make up the review of the case from last year on, which I don't have in my head, but I remember that was a very special point there. I think this will work out just fine. We have a pregnancy problem that has defined that a person really does not exist until a child is born. Thus, it is not possible in itself to equalize the humanity of a living person and the immunity of an imperfect fetus in his mother's womb.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u76	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I want to correct one thing; I was told that not all members of the Independence Party agreed to the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u77	Eight said no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u78	Eight members of the Independence Party said no, huh? þm. Óli Björn Kárson, for the release of a proabortion bill, or a pregnancy break. [[Up front.]] It is right to keep it in its proper place and thus correct it. But it is also true to say that the Independence Party, which has a great history when it comes to combating abortion and fighting against them in the past, could have stopped this matter in the government in its time of year but did not. Of course, the case became legal, and that is where the Independence Party holds responsibility as he serves in the present government. I didn't mean to join them here, but it can be discussed, of course, and it is important to remind others of it. But I don't agree. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson that the weekend we've talked about here does not reach an unborn child in his mother's womb. I can only see that the senator is on very high ground. And when he says we have defined it - it's not our job to define it. An embryo is a living human being, and they are to enjoy the immunity that is common. A senator was mentioned here. Hv. A senator told me to read the review of the National Institute of Moralology on the TV. I have, I don't agree with that. But I want them to point. A senator is to read the Bible book of Jeremíi, especially when the Lord speaks and says: "I knew you in the womb.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm not going into a word with what. A member of the body of elders on what the Bible says. I don't doubt his excellent knowledge of her, and I'm not going to question what it says, because it would not be too bad for me to do that. I believe, however, that we're in the middle of a mix with the two things together in some way, but that's not exactly what we're supposed to do. We are setting priorities in our health and moral values, that are to be valid. The Senator spoke of an embryo in the womb as a living human. We talked about it during last year's discussion to the extent that as far as the fetus would live on its own, with the help of medical science outside the womb, it would enjoy the rights. We also discussed that in the present health - care situations in the world and in the modern health - care system, it is normal to aim for 22 weeks, although there were very rare cases of variation, that it would not be appropriate to use the variation to impair the rights of the concerned woman. There we might find out what the senator is probably wondering about with me, i.e. when we weigh two stakes, which one do we put first? It's always that way. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator may know, as I do, that at times such options may be met by people who simply have to evaluate which interests outweigh their potential interests. And sometimes it can be a very painful decision. The senator's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u80	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For his historical record, Þór Gunnarsson's Ólafur, however, did not agree on the moral values and priorities of health care. I wondered while listening to what a traveling overseer or health minister would get out of this matter. It was noted in the panel's talk that this had been discussed in other locations for a long time, and he named a former health minister before the turn of the century. I'd like to ask the senator about one thing because he found prevention and prejudice in his case. As the senator knows, the person who stands here is a man of great interest in addiction and who wrestles with them. I have had a word with a health minister in this regard, and it seems difficult to get the Minister of Health to open his arms to them because I feel that they are not the right people who are the largest in the management of the institution, which is the most proud of the matter, whether the senator can agree that we need to show the results that have been there - I'm talking about the U.S. [[The president calls.]] I'll get into it better in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Sigurður over Páll Jónsson's son. The Senator mentioned addictions, and I mentioned in my speech just before the person who suffers from addiction, that it was just the group that we especially needed to look into when making decisions, including the decision - making process. Because of the nature of the disease and how the diseases play out those who have problems with them. So we need to look especially at those groups and how sensitive they are. However, I do not agree with the senator on the authority of the company. A health minister does not have an open arms with those who are running these options. I don't know better than that in Iceland, it's mostly, or that, by far, most of the time, society and charities run a therapeutic job for people who have an addiction or an addiction problem. While we can, of course, have different opinions about when it is necessary or where we should prioritate more money to these organizations, it is far from the fact that there is some hostility toward these organizations. I don't think that's at all. On the contrary, we have repeatedly shown that in the sheep and elsewhere as well as in the debate here at the council, humans have great respect for the organization and the good work they do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u82	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I still have to point my head. A member of the council, for I mentioned AU, that the U.S.A. has not had a contract with the government for years and works after an old expired contract. But from now on, it is now with the struggle of this blessed addiction, which is hard to deal with, and I know that the senator knows as a doctor, that the results have been the best when those dealing with a patient in these areas have had their own problems with him before. Most of the treatment agents at these sites are inactive alcoholics or addicts, and this has been achieved. It's a base that comes from the AA. Now, though, times have changed, and there has been more trade, which is joyful, to face the course of time. Because I mentioned prejudice earlier, I have felt that prejudice has increased in the community because we are at such times today that we want things to work very quickly and safely, but this disease is not necessarily that way. I would like to make it clear to the senator whether he agrees with me in that he needs to be clear - and I am mainly thinking about the parents of young people who are struggling with this disease - that people are better informed about the nature of the disease so that patience will become more evident as the results are not immediately evident.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. There is an answer to that question, and there is every reason to thank the senator, not just this answer, but his moose and his lawsuit when it comes to dealing with addictions. It is important in every community that these groups are spoken of at any given time, and the senator is truly to be commended for this. Of course, we are dealing with a chronic illness, and of course I agree with the senator that we should do all we can to rid ourselves of prejudice and try to get the thinking of all of us that those who are so unfortunate as to have these diseases are no more insignificant patients than those with any other disease. We should not allow ourselves to feel that they can be some leftover size in the discussion or in health care at all times. I fully agree with the senator and agree with him on the importance of making this happen in young people's lives, not only in excommunication of prejudice, but also with the fact that young people who are so unfortunate to face this struggle may have more than thought and the means in their hands to seek help have received support and instruction in the early stages. I agree with the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u84	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Committee's list of changes in bill proposals to legalize annual accounts, No. 3/2006, on behalf of the Economic and Business Committee. The bill suggests changes in terms of annual accounts, in particular the ones to be passed before annual accounts require exchange of members due to miscalculation or inadequate return to annual accounts or balance accounts, and the management of such requirements for the state of the Treaty. It is also suggested that annual accounts will be permitted to cancel the administrative guiltys due to annual separation along with breaking up a partner. No comment has been made on the subject of the bill. However, the Committee has called attention to other aspects of the annual bill, particularly in terms of the definition of the annual work and the size limits of partners in relation to the review obligation. In this regard it is worth calling attention to the comments of the Society of Industrial Affairs, which identify principle 1 mg. Ninety-six. The annual bill of partner revision and of that order at 98th. The law. According to 98th. Member States have to have under two of the three defined sizes in order to meet the restricted permissions. The Agency has to review these criteria with the aim of increasing harmonization and responding to the difficult manufacturing position of an enterprise. Indicatively, the Agency is expected to maintain its ownership and income targets from 2014 and not increase to the rhythm of the development of Icelandic manufacturing organisations. So it can be concluded that the share of enterprises in the manufacturing industry, which are being revised in recent years, has increased, and I believe that this applies to enterprises in other areas. Its reexamination and costs are burdensome for smaller enterprises, which have little interest and a high international competition. The Agency points out that, according to Article 2013/34/EU Directive, small enterprises should not be revised, in line with the aim of the directive to reduce administrative resources and to reduce taxation requirements by simple regulations. Small enterprises are defined in b-coma 11 Figures 2.g. laws on annual accounts as the enterprises less than two of the three-sized sizes of property, resource use, and number of annual jobs. If the criteria are compared to those that apply to the submission of the review according to Article 1. Ninety-eight. You can see that the currency limits of possessions and the means to enjoy that exception are much lower than to be defined as a small society. The number of annual jobs criteria is the same in both cases. In his review, the Association of Industrial Affairs suggests a budget of 1 mg. Ninety-eight. will be raised according to the definition of the law of little partners. Mr. President. The committee then quotes a memo specifically requested by the Committee from the Ministry, and I'm not going to trace it to any material here. However, the committee has an understanding of the views presented in the review of the Industrial Association. The Committee points out that a review of IX is necessary. the section on the annual bill, including the As a result, the 1 mg per capita can be found. Ninety-eight. Does the committee think it's right to do that work, including yours? take into account the regulations and terms of the European Parliament Directive and of Council 2013/34/EU, and the changes in proportion of partners due to review since the end of the budget was last revised. It will also be observed that the internal harmony of the law in terms of their definition of little partners. Therefore, direct the Committee to the Ministry to review this level and that the committee will be informed of its progress. Mr. President. I think I speak on behalf of the entire committee when I repeat that we expect us to see the bill of this material as early as the autumn months. This committee then has a technical adjustment, which does not have material influence. Hv. The members of Jón Valdimarsson and Brastedur Níelsson's son were absent from the case, and Sigmundur, the son of Davíð, Gunnlaugsson, was present through telecommunications. Brumes the Brynjar of Níelsson and Sigmundur, Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, sign as registered at 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " The people of the assembly, Óli Kárason, the son of Meriamur, the Brynjar of Níelsson, the daughter of Bryndís, the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, the daughter of Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, Sigmundur, Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, Smári Mccarthy, and Willum Þórsson,
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u85	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a committee program as well as a reflection of a bill to correct the adaptation of the maintenance and maintenance laws, No. 9/2009, with subsequent changes. Materially, the bill is about the success of irrigation. The Committee is of the Environment and Transport Committee and is at the 1623 Parliamentary Report. The bill is at Council Hall 1355, and the figure is 776. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by some guests and received reviews from 12 agencies all connected to their communities. The bill suggests that the State strengthens the development of municipal irrigation initiatives between 2020 and 2030, in a comparable manner, as the law on the support of urban irrigation projects, No. 53/1995. The main objective of the bill is to strengthen the development of municipal irrigation initiatives in order to meet the European Commission laws on water management and waste management and waste management. It is expected that funding for this project will be determined by the General Assembly, with a fixed sum of money in financial and financial programs for each occasion and ministers being entrusted with distribution. Perhaps it is proper to assume that once the amount of money has been determined for this year's project in recently approved financial contributions. The meetings of the Commission and the reviews received by the Committee were generally described by the bill, encouraged its approval, and strongly stressed that the project would be sufficient to ensure that plans for projects would be carried out during these years. The Commission considers this bill to be a great improvement, but it contributes to significant and timely improvements in municipal resources, citizens and the environment. I'll review the main points of the committee opinion, but first we will consider some of the strengths already being carried out. For the Committee, it came up with a view to the need to include the urban populations that have already started expensive projects in recent years, but not just the rural unions that have fallen into such projects. On the basis of a fairness plan, it would be right to have the strength to achieve construction in 2020, whether it began in the year or before that time. The Commission has a right to implement from January 1, 2020, which falls to Article 1. The bill, which makes it stable, has other conditions fulfilled. The bill suggests that during the course of 20200/2030, by means of donations from a government fund and by natural means of implementing support within each year of that period. This is a common understanding of the Commission and the Environment and Resource Ministry. This will be discussed in the process of growth. In the treatment of the situation, a perspective on the importance of forethought and transparency was observed during the application procedure and upon subsiding the grant. It would be desirable for applications and fortifies on the basis of these applications to cover several years at a time in order to facilitate the development of rural communities as a whole. Adequate financial and financial support during the campaign would be ensured and reasonable requirements for the completion of this relationship should be made in many cases large, time - consuming, and cost - making projects. Then there was a view of the importance that rural society could plan according to the expectations of granting grants and predictable payments and implementing agreements on priorities, confident that they will have strength because of future projects in the period. In that way, there would be an opportunity for to spread to-dos over the period. Furthermore, it was noted that there would be modest requirements for rural development and application procedures where there would be too tight a need to delay performance. The committee's due to these views at 3 mg. 1st par. The bill will be discussed about the application procedure and the condition set up for financial support that the implementation will be a step in total municipal irrigation solution according to the agreed schedule. For details on funding arrangements, see paragraphs 1 and 1. The bill. The importance of creating forethoughts is emphasized by the distribution of funds to save other rural partners. The order and timing of individual implementations, in accordance with national programmes, are expected to be distributed and distributed in line with the current financial programme. The Commission takes into account the above views and suggests that the Environment and Resource Minister can further expand the details of the European Commission, which are subject to the rules of Regulation on the basis of 4 mg. 1st par. The bill. Then, the strength was considered as a percentage of the total cost of construction. It was noted to the Committee that in preparation of the case, a scholarship rate could depend on the total cost of each member of the community in order to match the costs of individual rural society. With the overall cost of each population proving to be particularly high, it would be expected that the intensity ratio could be higher, up to 30%. This was referred to as being earlier on the basis of 2 mg. Section 4. law on support for the development of rural partners in irrigation, No. 53/1995, with a concentration ratio ranging from 15◯30%. In comments, we made 1st par. The bill shows that it is generally assumed that support by the State can be taken up to 20% of the total cost of a member of the rural community, depending on the budget at a time. A review of this point at the Committee meeting gives reason to believe that a good agreement is being made among rural society that a concentration ratio accounts for the total cost per population. The Commission claims that, in general, the intensity ratio is 20% of the total cost, although loyalty will become flexibility to meet the most difficult cases. According to this, the Commission emphasizes that the Environment and Resource Minister further expands its scope of Regulation. Well, then, we've got some solid work to do. For the Committee, there was an idea of the need to clarify further in Regulation what steps are considered robust on the basis of 2 mg. 1st par. The bill. In this regard it was specifically pointed out that according to the directive, traditional maintenance and restoration of older systems would not be robust unless their objectives of implementation were to meet laws and regulations. The stability of reforms that could be attributed to the increased duties laid upon rural areas by any form of administration or demands resulting from European regulations would be assured. At the same time, any projects could be explained as a cleansing of surface waters according to the regulations. The Commission considers this ideal price to be paid and aims at the Environment and Resource Minister to explain the nature of 2 mg. 1st par. Details of the bill in Regulation. There's a chapter on the Regulation's sentence. The EEA's review of the bill shows the importance of harmonization when it comes to implementation of water management action programmes, No. 36/2011, where you will be working on the priorities of your local irrigation organisations who do not meet the cleaning requirements of theinvestment and sewage regulations. According to the Agency, the Agency has cooperated with the Environmental and Resource Ministry, Union and the European Union on their implementation and that this work is still ongoing. Therefore, it is appropriate for the Agency to have access to the agreement planned at 4 mg. 1st par. the bill on the rules of implementation. The Commission counts as normal and to improve the law's implementation to continue consultation with the EEA, as was done in preparing the bill, as shown in chapter 5. Therefore, the Committee suggests that the Agency will be added to Article 4. 1st par. The bill. Then the committee suggests one change in word that does not have a material effect, suggesting that digital status be replaced by digital technology. The main views have then been explained in the Committee's opinion, and the Committee suggests that the bill will be adopted with the two changes outlined. Under the heading "Bergthor Ólason, Chairman of Bergþór Odinika Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, Ari Trausti Guðjón, Gujarán S.E., Brjánsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Jón Gunnarsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Vilhjálmur Árnason, and Karl Gauti Hjaltason, who was absent at the hearing of the case but who signed according to a warrant in 4 mgr. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, an officer of the committee, declared himself acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u86	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I wanted to come on one point briefly to see if they could get inside the committee's table and that we failed. Conspiracy, an organization of energy and service companies in Iceland, draws attention to the porting of initiatives, varying degrees of energy, some large and others not. In North Energy e.g. with considerable production, but with smaller rural communities, such as the Volgum, they were smaller than necessary and yielded good results. This comes with natural cost. That is why the inquiry is on the path stressed by Shammor in his review, which says: It is important that, despite the lack of results in working at the State Department's site on the cost of its recovery by irrigation projects, strengthens are also reaching those who have already started, not to be discriminated. It's all for what they're asking. The senator is simply this: Can rural areas that have been required within the last few months, one, two, three years back in time, apply for strength through the range for which this is being measured? Thus, their expenses would be reduced. [[The president calls.]] As we know, many societies are not well off - set, especially after the viral epidemic, so, of course, such amounts are important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u87	President. Thank you. A senator resists. As he pointed out, both in previous discussions and in committees where the divorce was actually being carried out. This is the subject of the committee's opinion. The Commission has a legal right to implement from January 1, 2020, beginning to fall below Article 1. The bill. Things that have been going on this year fall apart. They may be part of a bigger project where something is planned in the years ahead. In other words, the work is being carried out as a dynamic force within this year and then goes on to the rest of the rules that apply. I know this is true of part of the projects that Shammoor pointed to, both parts of the Northland and probably beyond. Of course, those rural communities involved in bringing their plans back, and it's going through a total assessment, at least taken from the doubt that existed. In effect, when the bill was prepared, the new arrangement would not be established until the next year. However, due to the decision taken as a response to the consequences of Covid, this support and bill will appear at this council and extend to the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u88	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. If I understand the minister, this year's 1st work is being done on January, as mentioned in a committee party. I would have thought it would have been as good as a year back in time. Certainly, it is part of this reaction to the viral epidemic and the way to expand and create employment in connection with this important project. Nevertheless, it is important for this issue to be looked at by a local partner who may have been ill enough to try to improve matters for a year or two in advance and to try to strengthen them in some way so that they may be able to continue. I would have thought it was a reasonable approach. In my second answer, I only wanted to introduce the proposed forms, to be part of a plan, and to set specific requirements. But we must be careful that these standards do not interfere with the progress of this important project. Total solution and a agreed program are spoken of as being reached for possible strength. Then you ask: What is the meaning of the term total solution? Is it absolutely certain that this is not some misunderstanding that makes this important task being prevented? [[The president calls.]] This needs to be simple when applying for strength, for the matter is simply about performance in this field. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, total solution and a agreed-in plan. I think there's a basic basis for a good deal of these things to be taken care of, to make everything around the country better. I was convinced of this in the work of the environment and transportation committee that it is very much at the same time at this level of work. What is new from the previous campaign is that the rural communities can now be funded for preparation and needed research, and this can be the first part of the task. But setting up a plan is also part of ensuring forethought. A community set up a plan where the first year goes into research, let's say, and then they take different big projects for three, four, five years afterwards. If the plan has been agreed, they are expected to receive an electronic system where the local community is applying for concentrations for annual projects. I believe this is actually going to be much simpler, but we've experienced similar cooperation between state and country society so far. There's Union in the key role as well as the European Union in cooperation with rural society and energy companies and the hosts throughout the country that take care of these matters. There are some basic tasks that have been started quickly and quickly by the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u90	Mr. President. It is one of the most important environmental issues of the day, and it would be wish that we were more attentive to them by language. As we know, there has been super-emphasis at the government on climate matters, but there is a case that is very important here, and I would have wanted to see much more emphasis on the government groups and in general on the classified issues. When we talk about the climate, that we have to fulfill all our commitments there, and although we are only 0.000 percent of the carbon dioxide pollution discussed in climate change, we should look at some of the most polluted nations, such as the United States and China, who are contaminated to 50% of the world's total carbon dioxide pollution. Perhaps it would be closer to the fact that we would look at some of the reporting issues and perhaps be good at getting some of the money the government has approved in the climate in the environment that is involved in irrigation and irrigation. This is an introduction I wanted to present at the beginning because this group of paintings, as I say, is very important. The fact is, Iceland and I have a long way to bring in waste management in line with the commitments the state has made by Member States in the European Economic Area. This is shown in a more careful report by the Industrial Association on Investors since 2017. Clearly, then, much improvement is needed in these matters so that regulations can be met. Inadequate sewage cleaning can affect the environment, knowing this. For example, large amounts of waste, such as plastics, can be expected to flow from a water supply into the environment here, due to the lack of cleaning or low cleaning in many parts of the country. There has been a considerable debate on the possible damage to waste waste products, which have not necessarily been given much attention to irrigation until now. Examples of such substances are microplastic and residues. It can also be assumed that there is more space for contractors to be able to operate effectively now when there is a recession in the economy. It has long been called after the State supports irrigation projects, e.g. by reimbursement of cost-employment taxes for the project and for this, rural areas have spoken specifically, e.g. Agricultural society of A yearborgs and other rural areas. Senators here, especially those of the Independence Party, have emphasized the value of the extra tax, and they have achieved a great deal of success. Not to be overlooked was that way in years earlier. In 1995 and in 200 million, the results were very successful, so you ask: Why is it now being accomplished to give this strength, which is far too low, that is 200 million? K., on the big task that you can face rather than on the merit of taxation that many rural societies have already spoken about? A paper on the grounds and the need for the legislation is presented in the bill of law for 200 billion. K. in rural development, as part of contributions ininvestment or a temporary investment initiative to counteract economic contractions and profitable investments that increase the demand for labor. And these are truly profitable investments, so this project has a very good place in the situation we have already faced when it comes to promoting the economy and promoting investments. The budget suggests that the project will start no later than September 1, 2020, and it will be completed no later than April 1, 2021. There have been a number of comments, e.g. Samagon points out that most larger irrigation projects, although starting inside, are of the order of magnitude that they extend beyond this time frame. Therefore, the organization suggests that the bill will be added to temporary regulations that are applicable only to this year's distribution. It would be important to note that there has been enough irrigation work to take place or to start in 2020. I feel that this was the case with the Committee's work. I came into it earlier about the strength that they'd be backtraced, e.g. Prior to 2019 C.E., simply because they have weakened societies, significant projects could be developed and could then apply for strength and possibly continue their projects. I would have thought we should go that way. However, the situation in this group is serious, as is shown by the information taken together by Samaria. There are only 23% of the population involved in waste cleaning that meets the requirements of regulations, except for the capital area. These are natural very bad numbers, especially when you watch the country. We know we should approach these matters on the basis of public policy and environmental quality protection, not some tax base, when we look at the cost. That is why I feel that we should have done this way with the valuable tax, and even afterward, we should have offered the support method as well. This article will show us how to do this. by the proportion of funding, it is generally assumed that the State can study up to 20% of the total cost of rural activities. It is possible, however, that this contribution is too low for many rural communities and especially for rural communities who are experiencing financial problems as a result of the virus epidemic, especially for rural areas where costs are especially high compared to population. That's why you would have believed it would be more wise to have a higher strength ratio in this bill. I also came in earlier, Mr. President, to discuss conditions for financial support, that it is as laid out in Article 1. the bill, the course of total solution to municipal irrigation in accordance with the agreed schedule. Here, it is very important that the total solution and the approved schedule not be too detailed. Such formal requirements must not simply interfere with the progress of this important task, which has been created in such a set time frame to take place on this time frame, as the bill says. You must be very careful that these forms do not interfere with the activities of the project. Then I just wanted to introduce the state's authority to encourage the rural communities to work on the closer state-of-the-blow environmental problems and the government to stand handsomely behind these areas so that they can simply carry out their legal duties and encourage them to clean up sewage so that water and sea pollution can be decommissioned. Then it just turns to food production, which is very important to us, that these things are all right. I think I've had this place where I used to talk at the highest. Environment Minister on this case in the early stages, especially this way, to take the extra extra tax road instead of the valuable route. Then there was the logical support of a minister for this policy that would support a policy on the basic value of the tax system. Of course, in the middle of the group we are bound with a simple rule, and we certainly do not want to complicate the tax system in any way. Yet, this way has only proved to be effective and has been successful. That's why it makes you feel a little strange to disappear from it. These are small strengths when we consider the magnitude of our assignment and should simply have added it to this important tax deduction method, as I mentioned earlier. We've seen amazingly high numbers when it comes to the proportion of people who live under unsalving sewage. The problem is big and big, and it is reported in the 2017 Association report at an approximate cost. Fifty-80 billion coming to an acceptable level of irrigation. These are huge financial resources, and it is clear that the way the government is setting out here is just a drop in the ocean. That's why you say that you should have gone on the cost tax, and then you should have added it on top. I must finally say in this discussion, I'm not going to have this further, Mr. President, that this is a case that matters to us very much. He has not received enough attention to my judgment. The attention here in Iceland is all on climate issues today, and that's why it's urgent that we begin to draw attention to this matter. These are small ones, 200 million, compared with what is being done in the climate of this country. The government imposes a carbon tax on all the people of the country, which results in 6 billion dollars. In a year, the flier and the diesel are increased by 1,424 k. People will remember that, and especially those in the country. And there's nothing to tell about the results. The middle class has specifically asked about it and asked environmental secretary about the results of this tax system, such as the carbon tax. The answers have been made that the results cannot be determined. It is natural that there is just a lot of thought about paying taxes on the public in such a way that there is no telling of the results. Well, there would be some success in the reporting of the country, if it was possible to put 5 to 6 billion each year into that lawsuit. Certainly, we would be quick to see the results of putting in the irrigation business so much. There, environmental priorities need to be established. This is a case that's been lying on us for years. We're not doing well enough, as I mentioned here at the beginning, e.g. already meeting the requirements we need to meet because of our EU Member States. We are not doing this for our commitments. This is a group of subjects that must place far more money on than the 200 million already involved in the large context, which is between 50 and 480 billion. Therefore, I would like to encourage the government to consider seriously the use of any of the tax bases that are being placed on the public in a subject that we see tangible results from and that is, for example, I'm in the garbage business. So to this point, Mr. President, I've finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u91	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct the creation and management laws, No. 9/2009, with subsequent changes, campaigns for irrigation, and related to the Commission's opinion and proposed changes. I'm celebrating this case. Although it has been said in the matter of urgency. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, that this was a small step in the big context, but I still want to celebrate this step because our reporting issues have been hanging over us for a very long time. These are expensive resources, expensive projects. I know this myself since I was in rural management and local government that the projects needed to meet minimum reserve requirements ran for millions and tens of millions. As a result, such things were usually ignored except for what was absolutely necessary. We've often talked about, especially where we're at sea, that for a long time, the currents are great, and that it just goes out into the air we shower down and down the streets. Of course it does, in most places. But in the large context, it is not good enough to see how reporting has been done in the past few years, in view of the demand for a better account of this. This country has grown up, with different resources and even more expensive. So it's a big deal, and it really needs to be taken care of. I agree with what. paritaprevir The request of Birgir's Þórarinsson to some sort of impulse, some form of merit tax recovery, or decomposition, and other such measures would help in this regard. If it's true, it would cost 50,480 billion to get the whole country fixed, it's not a small project. In terms of commitment or the EEA commitments and the standards that result from their contracts, it's far too far off that it's all right. But perhaps in this case, you can say that the narrow is a great idea and that I'm not going to go to any ◯dithalière in it because I've never studied this matter unless all of these steps are steps in the right direction. But I'd just like to mention another matter where we are, I'd like to say, too, with everything down on us. It's garbage. Now, we're learning that waste has been a mistake. I've compared that to sweeping the trash under the carpet. If you sweep the trash under the carpet, it's only under the carpet, it's not going anywhere. There are better solutions. In modern times, waste can be destroyed without causing excessive pollution. I'd like to mention a synoptic proposal. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason has garbage incineration. This suggestion is based on a model of existing and active garbage in Scandinavia. It's important to take a step in this direction. As with the garbage transported in a container for destruction, as I mentioned, it is like sweeping the trash under the carpet. It's like throwing the trash in your neighbor's barrels. We have a lot of work to do there. This came to my mind when I listened to the background and was in charge of irrigation. I urge us to get involved with these matters by senators and politicians. It's expensive, but it's necessary. It's also expensive not to be comfortable with nature, and it's gonna come back to us later. That's what I'm saying. I'm gonna call it a day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u92	The President reminds us that the matter is Icelandic, especially reminding us of the good and valid words of ◯ minor details.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u93	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in financial support law to a less successful person for a pandemic crown virus, No. 38/2020, often called closure concentrations and in this case additional closure concentrations. On the basis of the PVR budget, No. 38/2020, the operators, persons or lawyers, who had to close or drop their activities due to the use of disinfectant measures at the duration of advertisements No. 243/2020 on the limitation of meetings for epidemics, as shown by ad of No. 309/2020, applied for a specific close-up strength to the conditions met. According to Article 5. The sum of closing concentrations should be as high as the cost of operating during the period when it was due to the end of the meeting or to give up activities or services, i.e. in the course of March 24 to May 4, 2020, although it reaches a maximum of 800 of yours. K. per payman or up to a maximum of 2.4 million. K. per operator. By the law's sentence, there was a new advertisement on the limitation of meetings for epidemics, No. 360/2020, accepted, where certain partners were made to have closed beyond the time of advertisement No. 243/2020. Advertising No. 360/2020 replaced that advertisement, went into effect on May 4, 2020, and had a time to June 1, 2020. It stated that governments would reevaluate the need for restrictions according to the advertisement as the material did. In a panel study, more part of the Economic and Business Committee on the bill, which became the law No. 38/2020, it was stated that the new advertisement must require a review of the maximum financier value available to sources that would be clearly closed and that the greater part expected that the committee should consult with the Ministry on such a change when it is clear how long the continuation of closing instructions would be extended. Dr. Physics, the bill mentioned here, was employed in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, which was consulted by the Ministry of Health and the IRS. The bill is intended to be met by the members who had to be closed longer than expected at the return of the bill, which became the law of No. 38/2020. According to Article 5. Advertising No. 360/2020 was made available to dance clubs, pubs, and arcades to keep closed, as well as swimming pools to be closed to the public and such facilities as exercise stations. With ad of No. 445 on the change in advertisement No. 360, mentioned several times, were authorized to have opened up from May 18 to a well - defined number of visitors. Thus, complete closure was performed for 55 days. Advertising No. 360 was canceled from May 25, 2020, with a new advertisement on limitation at the meetings for epidemics, No. 470, and was instructed to close dance clubs, pubs, casinos, and gymnasiumsiums from time to time with its validation. So they were made to keep a total of 62 days. The bill suggests change of II. section of the Treaty on financial support to a smaller company due to a pandemic crown virus. It is suggested that, on May 4, 2020, or May 25, 2020, the operators who had to close their operations can apply for an additional retirement grant from a government fund. In accordance with the bill, financial cohesion panels are subject to the same views as the law's closed concentrations taking into account the number of days to be closed. Lock strength based on new 2nd sentence 1. Figure 4 paragraph. is provided as an additional close concentration based on a valid factor 1. g. and does not affect his money. It is then suggested that the application deadline for closing grants according to this bill be made on October 1, 2020. Cost assessment for the bill that became the law No. 38/2020 assumed a degree of space due to uncertainty about the magnitude of the funding. Unchanged is not thought to be the additional grants proposed in this bill for overemphasis. Finally, point should be made to the amount of money that is to be assumed that additional concentrations of closure can be studied up to 400,000. per payman, however, at a maximum of 1.2 million for each operator who had to be closed during the period of 4,◯24. May. The same numbers are 270,000 times. for each employer who had to have closed down since four- and a half hours ago. May, but at a maximum of 810,000. per operator. Mr. President. I suggest that the bill following a discussion here goes to the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u94	President. I'm very celebrating this bill, so I'm taking the initiative. The Economic and Business Committee for further action. In fact, it doesn't just apply to these things. It makes me feel that way. In fact, a panel and a body of council members fit to pay close attention and take action that takes place every time the wind rises. I wanted to take advantage of this opportunity and ask why. The head of the Economic and Business Committee is concerned only with the fact that this is a question of the granting of payers and, on the other hand, a scholarship to the operator. These events occurred in the discussion of the Committee, where these two are combined, i.e. where people run businesses on their own social security number? In fact, it is not just a close-up. Rather, it is a group that somehow fell between ships and docks in some form of action. This is not necessarily the most reasonable form of management, but it is in many places. I wanted to ask you what. Senator: Did you take special note of this group in your bill? Which side of the spine would the person in such a business fall, when he or she is a driver or worker? Or has it been discussed over our heads?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-08-114.u95	Mr. President. It is clear that in the laws that were accepted here, and I quoted, law No. 38/2020, and this bill is actually a change in that law, is the definition of the word maintainer. This includes individuals who are engaged in their own social security number, includes partner, private partner, etc., meeting specific criteria set out there. A person who was employed and therefore had to give up his activities for disease prevention reasons as determined by the health authorities on the right of all this period, up to a maximum of 2.4 million before the previous period, and up to a maximum of 1.2 million for the second period covered by the bill.
