ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u1	Borist has received a letter from the secretary of state asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a petition for this request. 113, on the commitment of the Icelandic state to properly introduced EU types, to have a priority in Icelandic rights from Ólafur Ísleifsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Marine Eliminaries and Agriculture Ministers, Foreign and Development Ministers and Transport and Regional Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u3	A respectable president. A report on the January 20, 2018, issue of the Ministry of Presidency was published under the title of the Directorateship of the Ministry of Presidency at the next year's convention. It reports that Bryndís Hlöðversdóttir, the then statesman, accepts as the Ministry of Directors of the Ministry of State by the Ragnhildur Arnljótsdóttir, who moves in connection with a new office in the foreign service. Although the content of the inquiry was not culminating the person of the Ministry director, Bryndís Hlöðversdóttir had been a governor of June 1, 2015, and her five-year appointment should have run out in the middle of 2020. The question I would like to present to the highest degree. The prime minister is whether a minister will accept the order of the new Ministry General from January 1. has started a new five-year order period, or whether a new five-year period, if that decision is made, will begin in the middle of 2020 when the five-year appointment period for this particular official will end the state line that will end. Is it, then, a new five - year period at the start of the Ministry's office, or does prime minister view it as the completion of this year and use it from that point?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. This order as long as it is. A senator asks that it be referred to warrant 36th par. track No. 70/1996, on the rights and duties of the personnel of the state, where there is a warrant for reassigning officials and this warrant is based on a statement in the Iceland Constitution. On the other hand, when an official is reassigned and actually accepts a new office, a new five - year term begins. Perhaps this should be explained itself in view of the fact that a new union must be received and the ordering process at that office is under way, I know, at the highest level. The Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs, so the party will also be appointed to new five, but not to six months, at the completion of the appointment of the previous reconciliation. So, yes, there is a new order.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u5	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. It's unmistakably allowed on the basis of 36rd. The law, but it says in this article, by permission of the President: ▪ Find yourself in another office or other profession at the time. 1st and 2nd. which is a lower salary, it should be paid the difference in pay during the remainder of the time of his appointment. Therefore, if the legislatator wishes at that point, it seems that the original time of command would remain active until a new command takes place. It seems to me that an arrangement has been established where, at a suitable time, it is possible to check the officials before the end of their command and thereby activate a new five-year appointment. It would be interesting to hear the ultimate view. Prime Minister, whether she feels that this was the party in her time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u6	Mr. President. That's what I'm talking about. A senator actually points to the situation only if the relevant official is exposed to a break in transport, his terms are not restricted from the period of office. This law I believe is to defend the relevant officials from the transfer failure of men at least not understood by my half-authority in this case that this time of command was being specifically defended. In general, with regard to the issues as a matter of course. A senator here tore I believe that within the Board of Directors and within the government there may be much greater mobility than previously seen, and I believe the lawgiver's will is completely clear in just the law as it was before. A senator refers to him. There is a willingness to be a motility between jobs. I think it's good for the public that mobility is greater. In fact, I don't think this warrant was new enough in the years, that it wasn't enough to increase this movement within the public, which I think is very good and good for all parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u7	A respectable president. I'm one of the highest. In effect, a minister was putting his name in this room yesterday when he explained his vote; one of those who made the song about local suicide and strangled the song that it would be impossible to intend to legalize a rural society that did not agree with such unity. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether he would probably like to have legalized rural society together, whether the people there like it better or worse. The minister put it this way in his history here yesterday, when he explained his vote: "If they weren't sustainable, if they couldn't run themselves. But now we know small communities that are self-sustained and that can run themselves, and don't ask for unity at the same time that we have to face the fact that they should actually be forced into such an operation. I'm not gonna start reasoning with the highest. Minister on what 1st mg. 78th par. The Constitution involves the independence of rural society. Rather, I'm talking about legalization. I'm talking about a quest for their democracy, their freedom to live their own lives when they are self-sustained to do so. It's under the roof. So a minister would probably step in and perform such operations despite what he has already said? And then I'm not talking about the ones who really want to be united and just calling out for her and the whole group that agrees with a minister, I'm talking about the group that isn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland for recording this, we may be able to take a little deeper discussion that was difficult to take in the votes and minutes last night. I felt that some members of the Parliament and especially in their explanations had mistakenly understood the matter. The thing is, of course, that men have for a very long time, and I expect to what. A senator shares the view with most Icelanders, considered very important that the administrative level, the rural level, is strong and sustainable and can deal with the work we have here, the lawgiver, hide them, and it is totally undisputed that the legislazoner can do so, both by rural society, but also give them other tasks. This case is growing to a point where it is worked together with the communities, very close, for a very long time. I described it yesterday that it was based on a report that appeared two years ago that had been prepared in the previous years in dealing with all the rural communities, and then made a special consultation committee with representatives of the rural community, which was particularly involved in the development of their second national body, where a very large and conclusively more part of it supported that this was a procedure that affected the whole level of government. Of course, it does not matter that at any given time, as in this case individual rural society, there are always individuals who may not be exactly in agreement with the 90% who feel that this is necessary to strengthen and strengthen the level of government. I remind you there's 11 operations. This has previously been a law on minimum population, so it is not new. The lawgiver has previously made these decisions, and the lawgiver has previously had a significant impact on the size and size and tasks of rural society, so I don't think it's legalized. [[The president calls.]] The time for this to be met is considerable, and the bill itself will also take into account the comments presented at the council and appeared yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u9	A respectable president. I can't quite figure it out, except for the highest. A minister is saying that he probably feels that law-enforced communities, although they're sustainable, it's just the lawgiver to decide that they're not practical enough and that they should be united. He refers to the representatives in the management of rural society, the European Union of rural society, and so forth. I don't see how maybe we can collect 10 to520 people in every election, and let them enter the ballroom for the sake of all the rest of us. I believe that each of us should be allowed to enjoy our own, and that it is democracy, that we ourselves should be allowed to choose and determine what we think, what we want. In this case, when a small rural society is self-sustained and we don't have to pay it, I think it's really normal, and probably, in that legal state and the democratic organization that we want to be left out for our living, that there will be the pleasure of the doubt and that it will be allowed to remain entirely without our interference and in the legal process.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u10	A respectable president. Hv. A senator spoke of rural communities, which were completely sustainable and did not need any other support. It'll forget what. For example, a senator may have developed the tools of an equation fund that much of the smaller rural communities have a large part of their income. Hv. A senator also forgets that under current rural law, humans have two main ways of cooperating. However, when the Ministry examined some years ago how this was being done, there were often 2,955 treaties in the picture, most of which were not based on local government laws but were not. People are always looking for ways to fulfill an assignment and have done quite well. However, there are a number of cohesive opinions, and I do not repeat exactly all, that for the development of the rural situation to be strong and sustainable, to deal with the European Commission and to have normal relations with the legislature, it is important that the local government level is larger, that the rural community is more powerful and larger, and, therefore, this synopsis proposal is established. Of course, the bill we need to build must be based on the viewpoints that came in. ... ata council Hall and at a committee party and the opinion of the individual senators here yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to direct a question to the highest level. Transport and rural Ministers on suggestions discussed within the road to cut through snow or in the so - called winter service on the highways of the country that turns toward snowstorms and high - temperature defences. It was reported in the news last week that there are 10% cuts that will, of course, have a significant impact on the services of the population that depend on it. As far as I'm concerned, this is a ministry demand. A minister to cut down to meet the forward drive on budgets. As we know, there has been a very difficult winter, and we have to shovel, and as a nation living in Iceland, we need to consider the weather, the snow, the rain, the shark, and the wind. We live in Iceland, and that's what we need to consider. I myself live west on the beach and work on rural control, and of course we also have to look in snow, and we never know how this year ends because snowstorm is just one of my country's basic services. Whether we have expected it or not, we just moan, and we take it into consideration. If we pass them, we will bring an appendix because our inhabitants do not accept the fact that they are not shoveled. Of course, that is also true on the highways of the country. This report showed that 10% of cuts should not be cut in the middle of the road. I don't understand how it's gonna happen, it's cut down 10%, but it's not supposed to be less. I can't get it to walk up to my head, and hopefully I can do the best. Minister helps me understand because 10% is a lot.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. Arna Lára Jónsdóttir's daughter for recording this case during the council because it is very important. In recent years, there have been a large increase in total transport, a considerable increase in money for maintenance projects of more than one billion, dozens of percent; and we have increased the amount of money we have made so that this year some 27 billion will become a project that is about 101.711 billion more than a few years ago. Thus, there is tremendous power in transport in Iceland, especially in the road system. In recent years, the service team has grown greatly. I'm sorry, I don't have the numbers straight, but I'll get them to what. The senator and the council here in the next few days because I've asked to get a summary of them. So we've been saying that there are priorities for this in the ministry, within the framework, we've drawn the funds to the capital right here, so, of course, the requirement for cut-off does not come from the Department of Affairs. The requirement is that we resist the budget, and that's the money we're concerned with here with the budget of the council, which is not enough. And why aren't they enough? Yes, it is because the services the public wants, especially when the winters are hard, as we are now seeing, have grown quite immensely in recent years and will be increasing. In other words, this is an aspect that we need to start seeing in increasing numbers the need for more money. We all agree on that. Of course, the ministry is much more than a snowstorm, or sharks, and there are many other measures. It is not surprising that on all sides of the government there is some kind of government support, so money is handled well. But I agree with that. A senator that in the present situation, as has wintered in winter, we cannot begin to limit our service at this time. [[The president calls.]] I've asked the Roadmaker to do well with these things, but, of course, the road structure needs to be passed like all the other government institutions. [[The president calls.]] But money comes out of here, the law has to follow that rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u13	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answer. If I get it right, this is the council problem. I understand the fact that the road is about to be kept the budget. Then will I hope that a minister will resort to further contributions to the seminary, so that a legal service can be performed here, that there may be shoveled. This is the theme of a transport program that is now considered to be that transport across the country will be facilitated and safe, and winter service is of utmost importance. But I think the highest. A minister should approach with the secretary of finance and resolve this, it is not advisable to cut down the road service. We depend on this service, and that is the reality of what we enjoy. Living in Iceland - it's all kinds of stuff. It's bad weather, it's good weather, and we just need to adapt.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u14	A respectable president. I can say that, so we've been setting priorities for this team, sweeping up old debts. Some years ago, however, it was foreign to come in here and get a lot of money because the weather last year would have been worse than expected. We've been trying to shut this hole down by putting money in, so the frame has gone up. It has been suggested that between the years 2019 and 2020, we increase contributions to the Service Team by some 600 million. Still, it is clear that more money is needed on this point. By the time he arrived at the end of the last few years, he had already passed about a billion years, and under law, these institutions should be paid back. It's a job we're going over. Within the scope of the Ministry, it is possible to take this money from maintenance or new resources to support this team or to come to the council and prioritize higher amounts of money for the transport of the country. And that's why it's fine for us to take that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u15	A respectable president. Recently, the president of the United States, Donald Trump, and the prime minister of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu, have revealed what is called the strategy of the century. It is a plan that these two gentlemen and national leaders have decided on behalf of two nations, Israel and Palestine, both nations accepted as independent states. This plan is made in the dirt of the Palestinian gate, which has strongly rejected the plan. The purpose of this plan involves the aim of assigning the territory of Palestine to which Palestine itself is not content, this independent state of the Icelandic foreign policy. That's what I'm asking myself. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers how he intends to handle this or whether he intends to respond and how, especially to our allies from the west of the ocean, in the United States. I wondered how the Icelanders would feel about another country that acknowledged Iceland's independence just would shut up or do nothing about it or feel in some way that another country would be sharing our borders or deciding what our borders should be without talking to us and without even asking us how we felt. I wondered how we would feel about it. The way this plan seems to go through, entirely from the military might of Israel and the United States, is something Iceland should strongly object. Palestine is a nation we acknowledge. Surely we must insist that our main allies respect the self - determination rights of those nations. So I want to ask the highest. Ministers, whether or not, how he intends to respond to this trend.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, and he's not going to repeat it. We are studying this program and have not received any special introduction from the U.S. government. It is too early, therefore, to appreciate her uniqueness. Like what? A senator suggests that it appears unrecognized to the second challenger, whose initial reaction to the Palestinian government has been negative. Of course, the peaceful solution to this issue would be welcome, but at this point it is not clear whether the plan has failed to promote peace. As regards the position of the Icelandic government, it remains unchanged. The Icelandic government has criticized violence on both sides and has taken possession of Israel, which is against international law. For a long time, the Icelandic government has called for a solution to the issue by two states and is most worthy of a peaceful solution on the basis of international law. At this point, we are working to analyze this plan, so we can guess little about its reasons, but it is of course surprising that it was not addressed to one of the debaters. A senator referred to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u17	A respectable president. It's good and blessed that Iceland's constant stand is that we want a peaceful solution to be met. Then we must have some way to protest this program. I disagree with the highest degree. A minister that it is unclear whether this plan contributes to peace or not. It's clear to me that it won't, it's creating war. This is evident, not only in response to the Palestinian side but also in the comments given on the subject. This plan will not be accepted peacefully, it's just ahead of you and it's a fact, no matter what we think of it; it will not promote peace, it makes sense to me. In view of that, if the highest. A minister can agree, we must protest this program in some formal way as a nation state that recognizes the existence and independence of the other nation, Palestine, and of Israel's course as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u18	A respectable president. There's not much more to say. Our stand on this issue remains stable, and we will continue that course. There's not much else to say at this point. Since there's not much to say about it at this point, I'm not going to do it either.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u19	Mr. President. Recently, I received an answer from a seafaring and agricultural minister or his ministry for asking about payment for the sheep. There were three questions, and two of them were answered, but the third one was not answered. This year's payment for sheep is more than 5 billion. The remaining part of the inquiry was aimed at getting information on grants for each individual budget in the country. It is refused to answer and refer to terms in pedestrian law, in particular around $50 p.m. and 90. ... whichis a vague article that should not be published sensitive information or information that is not considered necessary. Now, of course, we all agree that agricultural growth is a provision of public funds and that we have a great deal on the public interest that the public and we know what part of them is sponsored and how they are used. In contrast, in the European Union there is a broad agricultural sponsorship, and it allows every European Union to look up and receive exactly what strength it has gained from its government to its business. So I ask the highest. Minister if he approves of this release of the Ministry and if he is not going to take advantage of the application that the inquiry will be answered and regulations, if there are any factors that prevent this publication from being published, will be changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator repeated inquiry, first written and then oral. A fine opportunity is to emphasize that if a person does not feel that he or she is a good answer, he calls for more explanation, and it is probably a matter of reviewing it. I don't have this answer right next to me, but the Ministry finds this conclusion after a review of the Senator's excellent inquiry. There may be some evidence of this in the answers to some of the rules that have so far been discussed with regard to the expansion of these strengths, and it is, in fact, a review of them if indicated. I believe that neither farmers nor the common people nor any senators are interested in letting information about the provision of public funds lie in silence. It is not, for there are other reasons why, for the answer cannot be made in any better way than the senator considers. With reference to this strength, I assume that when individuals or companies apply for such collections, it is in the rules that information about that subject will be published. It may well be that such is lacking in our regulations regarding the limitations of the quality underneath. But because of a question why. I'll be happy to review this rule with my people, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u21	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer I appreciated so that it was positive. However, I would like to reiterate the core of a matter, whether the Minister considers this normal, regardless of how the principle is at the moment, if it is a resistance, which I actually seriously doubt is. I think it's a premium, but I'm not gonna say it. The main point is, then: Will the Minister consider these matters in a way that he will subject himself to the course of information that this kind of strength to individual parties will be revealed, as I suggest, in all EU countries with a vast degree of funding? There I can go to a database and look up Euro what that farmer gets in strength and for what projects. [[The president calls.]] I think it's our right to have the same system, so farmers are provided for and all are informed. That's, I think, for everyone's good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u22	A respectable president. Yes, I declare myself ready to go through this pile of rules. I'm sure that's a problem. I think it's only natural that there's enough information on the administration of taxes and sponsoring them. Hv. A senator put it so that it would be necessary to provide farmers with maintenance, but I think that such information is just so important to the public that it is necessary to assess both the pros and the defects of decisions made in such agreements. So, yes, I think it's normal to be examined. As I mentioned earlier, I don't know how to explain why this is not possible, but it's probably a question and a repeated request. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u23	A respectable president. Two reports have recently drawn some attention and have called for further discussions and reactions as they are viewed in context. One is the report of Kolbeinn Francis Stefánsson's last fall on the increase in women's disability over 50 o'clock, and on the other hand, the recent Eurostat report, showing that about 9% of adults in Iceland are caring for their chronically ill or elderly loved ones. These include family members, who, as we know, find that working for homes, even having demanding jobs that test the physical and spiritual needs of their children and grandchildren. The care involved, the care of long - suffering loved ones, the disabled, or the elderly, is added to such duties. We often talk about the nations we would like to compare with and be counted among; the northern nations, our neighboring nations. But when it comes to these matters, the Icelanders stand out as different. In Europe, there are about 4% of people who have such care for their loved ones but in the North countries around 3%. Here's a 9%. Of course, we cannot overemphasize ourselves, and we do have many examples of men who care for such matters, either alone or with women. But I think it's safe to say that in most cases these jobs happen to the women in the family. As noted earlier, demanding jobs in the workplace are often added, and it is not far from reaching the conclusion that this conflict between women in the families and the fact that the rise in the number of micro-efficient pensioners in this country has been in the vast majority of the recent years among women. We often hear words like coldness and exhaustion. We hear a lot of stories about how a person crosses his endurance, bends under pressure, for such care is not only physically challenging but can lead to much grief. People look up at their parents lose control, lose their strength, lose their skills, and have such a constant and biting conscience that they do not do their best. 9% here than 3% in the North. Should it not be a community responsibility to put their arms around the elderly and nursing the sick and to support the sick? We educate people to do this work, but then the authorities refuse to prepare the caring classes properly and refuse to negotiate with them. Could it be that this is a manifestation of decades of neglect in Icelandic society in building a caring system? Is this the presentation of nurses and medical staff missing all over the country? We need a nursing home. We need a uterus. You ask yourself: " Is this increase in disability of women aged 50 to 60 years, or perhaps. the sacrifice cost of dwelling on the family and the homes of the country where they get the weight of women's shoulders?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u24	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Thorsson Thorson for requesting this special discussion. In fact, there is a need for more attention in Icelandic society in general and I want to thank you for that because we both need, as shown. A senator, to base on the knowledge we have but also to get more information so that we can arrive at correct conclusions. The discussion in itself is good because it is part of our awareness and hence more likely to change the attitude of the public, as well as the job drivers, in the case of care and the distribution of care between sexes. Hv. A senator points out that in a new Eurostat report, Iceland is cut off from other countries, but in this context it notes that the number of microenergy donors has recently been largely one of the biggest among women between 50 and 1966 years of age. Hv. A member of the United States wonder whether this is the cost of sacrifice by considering family and country homes. I think it's a special point to think that the management of women is the most important thing to do, but according to the Eurostat study, there's a frequency, and we're talking about frequency here, caring for women more than men in this country. But it is important to keep it in place, and a sociologist Kolbeinn H. Stefánsson has pointed out that the figures we're discussing here and coming from Eurostat show the magnitude of care, not the percentage of those who provide regular care. And the figures on the extent of care collected in the European Health Research, the last collected by The Haust in the fall of 2019, will be ready for publication in the fall, and we will have even better data. Because of it. A senator would be interested in this aspect of the discussion. This does not mean that, in all cases, everyone is under extreme stress because of care. Of course, it is linked to other aspects of work and personal life. Regarding the public's part, it is important to also remember that caring is a normal part of life, something that most people want to share in, providing elderly, disabled, and long - suffering relatives. On the other hand, the role of society, government, and government is to support people in providing these care and ensuring that pressures will not be too much. It's, for example. can be done with increased flexibility in work, as needed, and so on. We also need to hold on to the fact that there is not one solution for all of these. There are alternative measures that are needed for those with disabled or long - suffering children other than those with disfellowshipped relatives with disability or long - term illnesses or those with old age - stricken parents. Different disabled persons require different support, etc. In this discussion, I would like to mention a few projects that are at my table during the election season and are designed to reduce family stress. First, in 2018, I gave a special contribution to the National Hospital in order to establish a support team for long - suffering children who have a great need for treatment of rare diseases. For years, the parents have called for social support and support to that group to reduce stress. Service to the elderly has been greatly strengthened. Home nurse's been promoted. The amount of money has been right here in the capital area and to Akureyri. Health care providers have been funded for special older people and individuals with multiple and long - term health problems. I've set up a working group working on rehabilitation policy. We're in a large attendance at nurses building, and the plan that is now funded in financial programs is setting up 580 new boxes in financial planning. In contrast, over ten years before that, 140 spaces were added. The number of calendars has been progressively increasing, and then we are watching specific day space as well as for people with encephalopathy, a special day space for MS, and a flexible day spent in Akureyri, a medical hotel at the Ringtrack has been opened. These are just a few of the tasks that are designed to reduce the stress of families caring for loved ones in need of health care. I hope, of course, that these projects have some meaning in the material in question. A member of this convention is discussing, but most important, that we have clear health policies and the building of the health system and base our decisions on knowledge. Then I especially look to the importance of scientific and scholars like Sir Kolbeinn H. Stefánsson with his data and we're getting more data, identifying and building decisions on them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u25	President. I thank you for this discussion, and I especially want to consider the circumstances of parents who are disabled and long - suffering children who are usually mothers who have to stay up late each day. These parents'role is so underestimated, and it is clear that we need to find better ways to meet parents and children so that our children can have a meaningful and better life. This often ends with these same parents giving up, perhaps not for the first year of their child's life, but certainly later. Then I want to see them as some reason why I need care. What's their right? Is it normal for a disabled or long - suffering child to spend most of the time with his parents instead of own life? Or is it normal for an adult to be cared for by a mate or by a parent in the activities of daily living? It certainly places an added responsibility on the spouses, as the perfunctory mentioned in their questions, but it adds responsibilities to one who is often a recipient of personal boundaries, often in very delicate situations that all normally belong to professional workers. Thoughts such as respect, power, and custody come to mind. It is clear that the discussion is needed, and I emphasize the right of those taking care of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u26	A respectable president. I would like to thank the prime minister and health minister for sharing in this discussion with us. The discussion stimulates a certain idea of equality. We who are now in mid - life, some of whom are more than just remembering that women carry the heat and burden on the business of family members and on the care of their neighbors. And then time goes by. Women today's employment program is equal to men. Today's word is equal. Parents'equal rights and pay equals are terms that Iceland and I take very seriously, but not long ago they just came into existence in the Icelandic language. Thus, it is certainly a backdrop in a community that aims to equal women and groups as much as we have done to see this striking difference in the proportion of women, 50 years of age and older, who go to the disability of men. Then you must ask why. Could it be that women don't ask for help, that we just do it ourselves, take it over? Is it because help is not offered or because the basic supplies in society are not strong enough? Then we will see what we can do and what we have certainly been doing in recent years. As a health minister has just read up, we can do all the important tasks, such as increasing the number of nurses, increasing day - to - day selections of the elderly, bridge the gap between maternity and prenatal school, and increasing the number of contracts for the disabled. All of this is being developed by this government, and I would like to add that every unit government in this country is working very hard, and I need the support of the Generals to get it done. And we can also raise our children so that when we are old and gray, it happens not just to our daughters but to our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u27	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this special discussion. In my opinion, she's got a lot of friends. It is easy to talk about how long Iceland is on equality in various fields and whether people want to boast about it or point out what is left of it. It is important that we bear in mind that this does not mean simply changing some law, which defines men and women as being equal. It is a side effect of more or less everything we do, and it affects people according to their status and including gender. One of the most clear or simple examples I know is when authorities have to stimulate the economy so that they have some major projects to pump money into the economy and make work. Then there is the possibility that men and women will be built. That's why it's so important, before making decisions, e.g. in the social security system, or when it comes to creating a setting for people who are ill or struggling with disability or something like that, we realize that such measures affect different social groups. In a society that is divided into two fundamental groups of men and women, with a slight defect, it is easier for us to think, to detect gender - related differences than with other groups of people, race, religion, origin, language, or any other group. Hence, when making decisions here, it is so important that we consider not only our decision but also our own goals that vary according to their status.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u28	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir The divinity of Andri Thorsson, for performing this discussion on the program and the highest. Minister for his answer and speculation about the matter. The discussions show that Iceland stands out as different from the surrounding nations, where about 9% of adults are caring for the care of chronically ill, disabled, or elderly loved ones on top of other duties to children and grandchildren. Whether the community should find ways to reduce the load of care for family members and mostly adult women is asked. Strong household care, social homework, and day - to - day living are measures that meet individuals who are chronically ill or age dependent on support and reduce the stress of family members, whether they are mates or children. Waiting for residence arrangements can be very difficult, dealing with families and even distant relatives of individuals with whom there is no other family. Increased funding is needed for home nursing, and it was presented in the case of a minister who was involved. But I'd like to focus on home nursing in a country where the funds, such as the system is built up today, are based a little on the number of visits rather than on the fact that it is a long way to go to one person. That too must be considered. There's a lot of work going on. Home - service, day selection, nursing room, and home - to - house welfare are being promoted. These are all measures that will reduce stress from the caregivers currently doing these jobs, but let's not forget the preventive measures. Physical activity and training, especially in older years, is a government - appointed prevention that should be strongly promoted by the rural community. It is an investment that will reduce the need for long - term health care. It is also a prevention for us as young ones to be diligent in moving and taking care of us, so that later, our children or relatives need to start taking care of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u29	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, I'm very sorry to bring this up. I have to say that the information that comes from a new Eurostat report, that 9% of the adults in Iceland care, compared to what happens in countries we generally compare with, and that in itself, we have a similar welfare community, although, of course, a person has had some sense of it. Hv. A senator also points out in the study of Kolbeinn Francis Stefánsson's son about a growing group of women diagnosed with disability. I'm also going to say that in this report, Kolbeinn shows that in the form of a number of scheduled years of good health, where men have always been a little higher, that in recent years, there has been an enormous difference and can be said that the years after a crash are critical, that there is a fundamental difference between how many good men enjoy their years of life compared to women, that women enjoy a much less happy life than men. The fact is, though, that is the case. A health minister is here to answer, that this is a matter of a lot of concern. Because we're talking about caring, it's in my arms at the highest level. A health minister, but it's all relevant. This has nothing to do with any government, it has to do with Congress, it has to do with rural society, it has to do with the public. You're absolutely right. A minister says that the solution involves increasing flexibility and is not just one solution that suits all. That's why I wonder here that I'd like to see, and there can be the highest. Ministers may take the ball, missions will be launched to cooperate best with their partners, i.e. Nurses, medical institutions, rurals, and individuals with some type of service. We talk all the time about teamwork, and I think teamwork might work. We'd like to keep our nursing home in order. We also want as few as possible to go there as possible. But we want them to be very good while people are making use of other resources. There's a lot of people here who know a lot of work here, and we can't win this thing in isolated silos up and down. We have to work together. It's a community project.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The divinity of Andri Thorsson for this need and the highest. Minister for being with us today and participating in it. I got an introduction to this report, which we'd like to receive from Sir Kolbeinn H. Stefánsson, who worked for the Environment Alliance, and you have no doubt wondered about the reasons. How Has Our Society Changed? How is our social life? How are women put under pressure? How does poverty, which we are fighting against with all force, at least Some here are making it necessary for two people in low - paying classes to make a living. The company is middle - aged women, and this shows how we at this age just burn out and become in a state of disability and inexpensive. It was this way at the time that the man came more often than not from work and took his own food than the woman who had also worked all day, cooked, and shed, and scrubbed, and asked for the kids. That was a few decades ago, and I think that's what's coming back to us now. I'm hoping that the community will now be more considerate of this. Our young men and boys are becoming as much moms and dads as we are, and so are we. I'm hoping that in the future we won't see the black and negative picture here, I'm hoping it's the future. I hope it's true that couples are working better together in families, and it will result in the fact that we women do not fall off the job market, as this report shows, that the next report shows something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u31	Mr. President. First, I want to thank the advocate of this discussion, which is extremely important. It's a community project, as shown in a case. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson It's a community project that we're all responsible for, but unfortunately, this community project, like many others, is running a little longer on the attitude of ▪ It's gonna work out. Once that attitude is very useful to us at times, it will also be a little harsh to us now because it shows that this third work, which only strikes women in Iceland and definitely beyond, is leading to the very same group, women in their 50's, to desensitization and disability. New reports show that this group is driving far more out in this country than are other groups. Women in Iceland, for example, have a higher level of employment than those in controlled countries. It is greater than in most parts of the world. I think it's just one of the biggest in Iceland of all the countries around the world. As it turns out, in Iceland the people are more involved in treating the nation's long - suffering, disabled, elderly relatives. This third work lies entirely on top of it. It is our community project how we will live together to live a good life for all, both those who need help in their daily activities but also those who, aside from their daily activities, provide help.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u32	Mr. President. This is an enormously important debate that is taking place here today and, of course, is now a community discussion in which we are examining our community and how it affects the sexes. Research has shown that it adversely affects women's health, and many things are involved. It has been referred to by Eurostat's report that women in Iceland are more concerned with caring for elderly, long - suffering, and disabled persons. I haven't dived into these numbers, I think it's quite right, but one of the things that could be different in Icelandic society is that we try to prevent it from as much as we possibly can that disabled children live in institutions. This, of course, adds stress, has to be added to the parent's support. Children living in their homes are in itself good. Here we need to analyze the significance of the figures and then respond with the right support. V.E.G. A health minister has considered what she is doing in her own way. Of course, we also need to discuss this matter in order to form a social minister. I hope that the changes in the maternity system will take on the future, that, with longer maternity leaves and higher payments, we will raise a new generation of men who will be more involved. [[The president calls.]] We need to know and have clear information about our community so that governments can direct funding and support in the right places. That's how we'll be successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u33	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for this discussion that's been so wonderful, and once again I want to thank someone with whom I've been very much. Many good things are being done. There is no turning aside from thinking that a certain step is taking, that is, being taken, but we need, of course, to continue looking for ways. What is left of me now when I came up here for the second time is that not long ago, families lived together in a large house where generations were just under the same roof. We have come a long way from that thought, but it was likely that younger ones put their arms around older ones and somehow made life go on with their happy, sad moments. What I may withdraw from today's discussion is especially that we need to examine more carefully what their experiences are, for some reason, have had to rely on the care of family members, whether we really have any research on it, because there could be a pot broken. I care about the rights of those who need such care and may not necessarily choose a caregiver because of circumstances. The voice could be heard better, and in here we could pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u34	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying that for the last two. A speaker here spoke that it would be very interesting to consider it as bad. A senator discussed the matter. If the window is in this report as we speak. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson made it a subject at the beginning of this discussion that you see a lot of statistics. I have to say, I haven't read everything that's there, but at least I don't find much of a good explanation for why the statistics are the way they are. For us there is a research project to explain these numbers. At this moment, I can at least do not much more than flayed for its reasons, or I can present some kind of mild hypotheses. One of the things that I sometimes feel I have to be forgotten in the equality talk is that a clump that affects a generation tends to influence other genders. If clumps are e.g. There are men and more plans to be at work 24 hours a day, something that quickly comes to the fore should come first to the heart of a man. But that situation has negative effects on the status of women and other genders. It's all gonna hold together. I was wondering, in a ulterior sense, if there's anything in these numbers that we've been discussing here that could explain with a particular form of work worship I can sense in Iceland. You know, it's totally normal in Iceland, I think people are always at work and they're kind of supposed to work as hard as they possibly can. It is kind of sinful not to work as hard as you can - and it is the discussion in relation to a fine matter that will be discussed below, about the family husbandly Council, the funsome konsept. But such things, I think, strike men primarily, that they are expected to work all day long. That means they're not going to do anything else all day long, which means it's gonna hit women. [[The president calls.]] I think it's important that we keep it up. Of course, it's not about which one is more disturbing than the other. Rather, it's just wrong and bad, and we're dealing with them, no matter what they take. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u35	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The divinity of Thorsson Thorson this special discussion and the context of it. A senator places the discussion, this sacrifice cost, and the importance of finding ways to reduce the inevitable and extreme pressures in many cases that come with it. Then I'd like to thank you very much. The minister of her entry. The minister introduced a number of factors that are important in reducing stress, including contributes to a hospital for special support to long-term childhoods who have a great need for support because of rare diseases. I encourage the minister to do even more in that area and, of course, in other aspects of health care, rehabilitation, nursing planning, and other aspects of health care for this community project. I have proposed, a respectable president, a judicial hearing with members of all members of the Parliament about a special unit of service for individuals with rare diseases, and I intend to refer to the proposal, since it speaks well in the context of the situation. The proverb puts the case in, with the permission of the president: ▪ The General concluded to hide a health minister to order a team that allows specific services to be implemented for individuals diagnosed with rare diseases. The Service Unit will make sure that patients have one station in the medical system and that new knowledge and most recent research are provided with a better service based on their most recent knowledge. Then the staff will be assigned to search for ways to ensure simpler and more rapid access to the necessary medication because of rare diseases. I'm encouraging the Minister on this and what. The welfare committee to handle this matter quickly and carefully because we speak in single voice in this social assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u36	Mr. President. I would like to agree with the comments of others and give thanks to the advocate of this discussion. She's really needed. I also want to thank the Minister for the information it has given us here on all the development ahead and I hope it will succeed. Last night, I was talking about prevention work and that we had to look much more and get over it, i.e. building a life of caution, which means not just elderly ones but all age groups. When we're watching our children, the middle group forgets to take care of themselves, and the elderly are to take care of themselves and be smart and physically active, but it takes encouragement and encouragement. What is discussed in the construction of nursing homes makes my heart rejoice because all too often we watch families stay up because of parental care, even two parents. The children of these parents have taken a heavy responsibility. What I see about the elderly is building in the day - to - day living cells, which I find absolutely necessary. That's what I say that can in most cases keep the people much longer at home. It doesn't contain either one, which is a major factor in this. It's also the cheapest option. We've seen it in the family sector how much it has to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u37	A respectable president. I thank all those who participated in this discussion and applied all of them as good as possible to it. There's a lot of good things here, a lot of good tips. I also thank the Minister for participating in the discussion and for the answers. That's right, I could have encouraged almost all the government to participate in this discussion, and maybe someday we should have a speech meeting on this very important subject, because there are so many things to do. It's not just sexist stuff, it's also about the welfare community itself. It's about our community's foundation and what kind of community we want to be. It has been shown here that people should be able to care for their loved ones, and of course we want to do so as much as possible. But we have to survive, and we cannot walk on our own indefinitely. That's when we start caring for our loved ones, and it's worse than at home. There, society must have resources that can be searched for, and these resources need to be strong and active. At times, we may feel that such measures are too negative. We call these institutions and view them as cold and bad places. It doesn't have to be, and it isn't. On the other hand, it's humane in these institutions. As a community, we are not decently involved in building these institutions. They need a nursing home, and they need nurses, and they need a nurse.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u38	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for a very good discussion and mention a few points at the end. It has not been noted that there may be a number of factors here in the country that make the figures for Iceland as high as they have been, which have not been mentioned here, possibly something in culture. It has also been noted that large compressions here on the southwest corner could be a contributing factor in the small distance between caregivers and relatives who are much easier to care for. These are just speculations and have not been confirmed by research. The study of Sigurveig H. Sigurðardóttir, professor at the University of Iceland's Social Advisorship, shows that when men grow old, the wife becomes a primary care provider, as it is called, but when women become old - agers, care about much of the children and mostly their daughters, even if a husband is there. These are facts. But we do have specific diagnostic devices. We've got a sensory budget, a sensory economy. We want and need to analyze all the data because we need to know who is involved in this sexualization, which really exists, and the mass development of microenergy workers mentioned here in the introduction and raises questions, but we still need further evidence. I especially stop at that as a matter of course. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir mentioned these aspects of the ministry, and it is of course most important that they too get their views into the discussion. Finally, I would like to mention the importance of this field and the general social field and analysis of numbers to make right decisions so that, as the Ministry of Health, Social Affairs, Community Association, Grass Subrous moving, rural areas, etc., we know where to direct both our services and our financial resources to support our good society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u39	The arrangement has been agreed on. The minister has 10 minutes to history and 2 minutes to the end of the discussion. Also, the members' representative who requested the report has two minutes at the end of the discussion. On the other hand, there was an 8 minute class, the central party, 11 minutes, 11 minutes of independence party, 11 minutes Piratar 11 minutes, 12 minutes advance, 9 minutes restoration, and the left movement 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u40	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion about the utilisation and ecological significance of the hairy population for the year 2000 ◯2019. The report that highlights this discussion is quite extensive, and it is more than 200 pages before I come directly to its contents, I would like to review a few words of the government's special emphasis on hairy research during this terms. According to reports from the Marine Research Institute, the budget for hairy research went from 351 million. K. In 2017 to 424 billion. K. in 2018. Thus, governments during this ideal period have set the priorities of money for hairy research, and in harmony with this, the search for fur has never been so extensive and extensive as in the last fishing year. That was also true. For the first time, the search for phlegm in cooperation with the Greenlandns was to look for information on the causes of the great changes that have occurred in the fur and spread of the plant during the past few years. In spite of this, the results of these extensive research did not warrant the start of a hairy hunt. January 13th. This year's hairy search began. The search was extensive, but five ships were all involved. As we have seen, it has not been successful yet, but it will continue to be searched and it will be resumed at the beginning of February. It is hoped that this work will produce great benefits for people and businesses, and indeed all society. It'd be a big hit, including. for rural communities like the Western Islands, rural areas in Southeast and East if there were a failure for another year in Flaming. A respectable president. I would like to begin a review of the report on the state and outlook of the phlegm population. During the past 20 years, the export value of fur products has been in the range of 3◯34 billion. It is clear, therefore, that fur is one of Iceland's most important crops when it is already well spent and is not only important because of the fishing but also a large part of the food of many other crops, as well as one of the key species in Iceland's ecosystems. Since the largest part of the spawning strain is killed after its introduction in March, hunting stock consists mostly of one year's height, i.e. Three-year-old hairy. Because of its short life cycle, it is difficult to evaluate the size of the spawning population. It's sacred even. Because the evaluation is mainly based on measurements carried out between September and October and the weeks in January and February before ovulation takes place. Looking forward to the current season, the information that is available has not been good. As measured by the Institute of Marine Research in the fall of 2019, the layer of spawn is estimated only about 186,000 tons, and the Agency has published that a very small number were found in a recent expedition that ended last week, as mentioned earlier. It is estimated that 95% of the population in March is likely to reach more than 150,000 tons. According to the calculations since the fall of the year, the criteria for a policy will not be reached even if there is no winter fishing. However, the highest scientific number of young fish since 2010 provides the hope that the root's condition could improve, that fishing can be permitted for the season of 2020/2021. So it will be interesting to observe the next fall of the year on the measure of the Habitat Research Institute. The report specifically discusses the potential effect of hairyness on average weight of cods. Many have expressed concern about the effects of lowering the hairy population on growing crops that eat hairy. From the start of the population size to the turn of the century, average weight-by-age cods were well correlated in the catchers of fishing ships to the size of the hairy population in the most common age groups at the hunting, i.e. Forty-seven years old. This has changed, likely due to behavioural changes and the spread of fur in changing environmental conditions, but possibly. Also due to changes in food selection or food supply. Other factors may affect the average weight of cods by age and raise, such as at any season of the year caught and possibly e.g. Also in any kind of fishing system. The diet of young fish differs considerably from the food of a larger and older fish, which, of course, depends on the size of the fish and is largely confined to the ground. In recent years the share of fur has diminished. The share of Glacier and shrimp has remained somewhat similar. In 2015 a new policy was adopted in making a decision at the catchmark of fur. It is, in fact, there. take into account the decomposition of flounder, exaggeration, and the ewe and the hairy from the completion of the fragility to the spawning process. It is called a debduction model that employs data on estimated stock size and distribution of the above bottom fish, their food, and their digestive rate. The model assessment is made of the time of completion of winter measurements, so the predicted period is usually relatively short or less than two months. This was the case, for example. In the course of January 15 to March 15, 2018, some 220,000 tons of fur were eaten by cod, cod, and enamel, of which some 150,000 tons were eaten. As a result, the recommended catch point of the period of 2017/018 was lower than the estimated cost of abduction. Thus, the current catch-up is more likely to take better than the old change in the size of the major crops that use fur as food and grow to an estimate of folding. While the current catch policy is also more cautious than the first rule, which did not take into account the uncertainty of the root reading, it is clear that the change in the economy is not a reason for the decline in population fishing over the last two decades or so. A respectable president. There has been much discussion about the effect of growing whale stocks on the size of the hairy population. The decline in groundwaters has decreased dramatically in Iceland, but as Iceland's humpback back grew, its humpbackbackback has replaced it as the dominant species of skidish whales on the coast of Iceland. The spread of the swarms seems to have increased north, with long periods of effort on the land, but this species stays most out of the coastal area. According to 1997, a total of 12 species of whales in the country were estimated to be about 6 million tons per year. The roads have been more likely to change about in this way: 3 million tons of crabs or food, 2 million of fish, and 1 million tons of squid. An updated calculation based on the latest data on stock size and food selection has increased to 7.6 million tons, including 3.3 million tons of fish. The biggest robbers are long-earned, wretches and humpbacks. Although these calculations were merely an updated estimate of the calculations made in 1997, they show that an increase has occurred in the eaters of the whale farms at the country. In recent decades, the humpback whale has grown dramatically, and there is evidence that each humpback whale eats more of its adult hairy meat than is that of others who often follow a hairy tunnel until the pretence. Other decapitators on hairy birds are called seabirds. In the United States, 24 species of seabirds are exposed to the species most useful to foods, grassy, long - range, short - nosed, aluminium, and literature. Little research has been done on the connection between seabirds and hairy birds in recent years, but according to studies published in 1997, seabirds were estimated to eat more than 200,000 tons of fur a year. A respectable president. Finally, I want to briefly discuss the potential effects of the warming of the sea on the hairy stock. During the past two to three years, the surface temperature of the sea around the sea has been more pronounced than in the previous years. There is reason to conclude that changing the temperature and changing the position of colder waters from the north, and the remnant of warmer seawaters from the south in the north and east of the country affect the course of hibernation in these regions. The adult truffles travel to the cold seas of the Iceland Sea and in the Strait of Greenland during the summer, where they weigh more than three times and gain weight. In the fall of this year, it returns to the Icelandic land base and carries energy for it from the north. While the impact of water warming on the size of the hairy population cannot be claimed, there is evidence to suggest a link. It has been shown that the distribution of young cattle and adult furs differs from that starting from research in the 1970's until the turn of the century. Thus, changes in the spread could be a reason why less of the hairy population appears to be infested than before, which is produced in a shrinking fishing stock. Data from the Oceanographic Institute shows that in parallel with the warming that began in the mid - 1990's, the average size of the stock was reduced as well as the catch. This is reflected in the fishing season, but during the past quarter of the century, it has been very swinging, three times more than a million tons, and three times more than 100,000 tons, including the last year in which no hairy fish was caught. Comparing the average fishing between 1980 and 2000,2015, we can see clearly how much changes have taken place in hunting. Thus, in the 20 - year period mentioned, the average power of over 900,000 tons increased to just over 300,000 tons in the last 15 years. Although there are fluctuations in both periods, I believe that these figures show that the hairy population was having trouble in the warm waters of Iceland during the past 25 years. It is clear that studies of the hairy stem and the link between hairy and other species in the seas around Iceland have been far too limited. In order to further the research as well as monitoring the size of the source, the General decided to provide additional funds for the project in 2018/22022. It is my hope that in the years that this injection will take place will increase our knowledge of the powder and that we will explain the reasons why the hairy population, this important resource, has been hit in recent decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u41	A respectable president. Thank you very much. a sea emissary for his speech and the report under discussion, on the use and ecological significance of the hairy population in the year 2000 to 2020. I was the 1st member of the Parliament, which included the report request, but along with me were 16 members of the Shock People and the Conspiracy, Action, and Piranium. I hope I'm sorry I didn't call them all up here because there's no time for speech. A request for this report was submitted on March 18, when it became clear that there would be no hairy fish last winter. 17 questions were raised in mind to get a complete picture of what has happened in the fishing management and use of the hairy population since the turn of the century. I'd like to thank the staff of the Marine Research Institute, Fish Room and Habitat for their meaningful answers. In the winter, it is clear that there are dark prospects for furturbs, and a vast search in January, east, north, and west has brought little to nothing. The collapse of fish stocks, such as hairy, is a serious blow to the nation's economic and economic situation. There can be no more talk than a collapse, a respectable president, when the nation's second - largest crops can be fished for years and its prospects for use are dark. In this report, on page 26. 177, says one reference work, has averaged nearly 10% of the annual total cost of marine products from the turn of the century, the annual value running at tens of billions. The collapse of the phlegm population is a financial battle, not only for national, state, and rural areas, but also for the region, for the coastal areas, such as in Eastern Europe, Hornfjords, and Western islands, and beyond. But there are other factors. Lodland is also of great importance to ecosystems in Iceland's nature, both for seabirds, and more for its life in the ocean. It is an important food for other strains of fish and vertebrates, and it should be called cod, our most valuable bread. Hence, many factors need to be kept in mind when discussing the hairy stock. This report was requested, so the Council might be provided with information that could help deal with the problems and dangers associated with the collapse of the hairy population. When the report is read, some questions arise. It makes clear that much time and money have been spent looking for fur in the past, finding, and measuring fur so that salaries can be published. Somehow, I think less had biological and ecology studies on the hairy stem. For a considerable period of time, flushing has been having problems, a failure of almost every year since 2001, as shown on page 12. 15th The collapse of fur has not just begun. It started then. Thus, there will be no simple explanation of natural changes and warming in the ocean. As you read this report, you can see the suspicion that Iceland and I have not been exemplary in the use of the hairy population and are now getting our head straight. From 2005 onward, the number of exposed furwebs is greatly reduced because they do not measure very much hairy, as shown on page 20. 5. Total productions last reached a million tons in 2003, but since then they have always been smaller. In the last few years before his complete fishing ban, he was far below 500 of you. tons. It may be asked if there would have been no special precaution in the range of 173,000,285,000 tons, such as between 2015,2018, where men were seeking to hunt for the most prey. This little fish was finally caught up in the spawning process to extract the eggs that would become the foundation for a new generation of hairy. Was this a serious and decisive mistake? Was it too close to the spawning strain? Would it have been more correct to ban hunting to ensure that most of the little fur that then existed could spawn in peace? Was there a mistake in hunting counseling and hunting control? Was that a robbery? After these years, there will be a complete joint failure and the powder will collapse. Another factor that draws my attention, a respectable president, is that unbridled hairy fishing with a Navy launch has been permitted north and east of the country, as shown on page 6. 6 and 8 of the report. And it shall come to pass, that there shall be a hairy thing in the north, out of the sea by the east side, with the east coasts. This may be said to be one of the most important phases of the spawning process. They've chosen to meet her with drawn fishing tools, and we've got Icelanders at the most massive. As far as I can see from a table on page 193 in the report, but since the turn of the century, of total farming of 9 million tons, Iceland and I have given less than 2 million tons to the fancy sheep or about a fifth. Fleet Fishing is a very close line. You can hear me very well if you're talking to sailors. They are bound to swim through storms and interfere with their walk. Fish are killed while passing through a grid, studies provide vague results. Why, in the face of natural protection, are the furs not allowed to enjoy the doubt, apply precautions that otherwise are considered to be beneficial in nature, and against the rules of fancy sheep fishing? All you can do is catch your hairy skin at night, which is a completely different fishing tool than a tow. The notes block off part or part of a swarm, but they don't split it up like the fine roll. In the past, all the furs were granted overnight, and they were doing quite well. But now it must be interwoven with huge tug fishing instruments on the most powerful fishing vessels we have seen around the country when it is crossing the country. Who could ever think of allowing such a thing? Let us consider, more revered President, that the use of the fur stock turns on other environmental protection and biodiversity of Iceland. With our furholms, we are experimenting with the delicate work, the very machinery that drives the engine to what has been one of the richest fishing grounds in the world. What makes this small, nutritious salmon so important? Let's just think about it, and now I hope that this world of Congress is listening, that every year a great adventure becomes a reality in the Arctic Ocean of Iceland, where cold currents from the Dubbs Sea meet warmer waters from the south. In the spring and summer, when daylight and the sun are almost 24 hours a day, the water is an enormous source of growth and nutrients in the oceans. That's where the hairy, dense, but small, fat and energy-rich fish will be made to eat gliders. Under normal conditions, these fish will be greatly fed. After late in the fall, these fish have been walking south to Iceland. He's supposed to be walking south along the coast of the South Coast into the Gulf and British ground where he lays and dies. Some hairy ones also come from the ocean up to the north, or walk south on the West. All of this happens in the same time as our cod is beginning to spawn, and he needs food to earn it if it is not to go badly. Lampways are the very thing that transports nutrients and energy from the production of the ice Ocean into the Icelandic core. This is a key element of life's environment. Because this hairy spawning and dying, it doesn't get out of the system. It becomes an important food for other organisms that make up the marine ecosystem throughout the year. This must be understood. If we dry up our fur, we'll kick the backs not only from our economy but also from our own. Lodrin is very important as food for cod, not just when the cod is growing up, but also when preparing for ovulation. Building up the cod is not the only thing we have had. It is also not monotonous that despite the government's boast of using the fishing grounds as scientific advice, there are many other useful stocks that fail to collapse. These include lobsters and shrimp, such as species that survive organic waste at the bottom of the ocean or just above the bottom. Is there a connection between the collapse of these structures and the collapse of their fur? Most of us are now in a state of detoxification. In the autumn and spring, the number of colors on each side is rapidly dropping, as indicated by the new Merro report. It would not be surprising if the codfish were to be greatly reduced this year. We can see that now more than ever, the cod has much less to eat. Is the cod at the bell, now that the hairy has collapsed? A respectable president. The passing of time is fast, and a sin of how little time the General will be able to talk about this very important matter, which is the position of fur and life in a broad sense. Here I have only reached the limit of a few points, would have liked to talk about the whales and the increase of seabirds. I'd also like to recommend a major initiative in marine ecology research on the hairy side of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u42	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for this discussion and for this report and a request. paritaprevir Inga Sæland and their story of both, topmost. Minister and her. The minister reviewed the facts from the report and the research of scholars. I've wondered this morning how much we politicians are going to deal with science here at the General, where scientists are scientific experts. It's very delicate and has actually been more determined that we do business solely after the advice of fishermen, e.g. In the distribution of the labor departments, and that's fine. In the past, we were putting our fingers in it more than ever before, or the Ministers, but now it's gone so that it's completely followed by scientists, and it's an improvement. This is a serious situation that has developed in fur, which naturally triggers a variety of learned and unlettered scientists to find the cause of the situation. What you most slang about or attracts the most attention in this report is that colder waters have been looking north and hairy as a cold - sea fish and as a result have followed this colder seawater. It has been more over the past few years that the hairy has moved north and has been harder to find. There is no question as to what is involved in the fishing process, but it may not always be correct. The question of whether a fine roll has a strong effect on my life - I had strong opinions about it a few years ago, but I've been softened by scientific information about it. Of course, we should be on guard with our fishing. We are totally dependent on the way living things are happening, and we can't handle it much. No matter how much we study, it doesn't produce fish in the water. However, it is to investigate the causes and reasons for how the environment works. When it comes to our level of politics, most of it is valuable. Of course, it's a huge deal of business with certain places and national preparations as a whole if it's a fact that we're going into the second year in which one will not catch a hairy one, even though it is a weak hope that something will become possible to catch one. But we've been through these things before, as just happened, e.g. has to do with the ocean shrimp. I'd also like to mention the macaroni, and then the lobster is on the list. Some years ago, a large catch of cod in the north of the Barents, called Smuggle, was given here. They were successful when they were making a great deal of national importance and were on the board of governments or politics, and this money was being arranged for in financial terms. Then the fishing went crazy, and they had to be wiped out. Some people had greetings, but he's so small that even men aren't turning for him, but this was about to matter. I just want to say, of course, that the door to joy must be slow when discussing these matters. All claims are hard work and interaction, and science must be what we hold in high esteem. Loining is of utmost importance to life, especially cod, and also to other fish, after it spawns and falls to the ground. So this is a serious matter. But all the big talk, anything to blame, is very sensitive, and I think we should discuss it with an open mind and try to find out what causes it. I'm not a scientist, but I'm beginning to conclude that it's this transfer of colder waters north of here. The report shows that there is not necessarily a mix between cold and warmer climates, which is of great interest. This could be discussed much longer than the session of public talk is almost over. I just want to thank you for the discussion and I'll keep listening attentively.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u43	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for your discussion. I'd like to discuss the loss of income because of a fluffy failure for those communities who have built up attractive activities around hairy development and the possible way to cope with such loss of income if their hairy failure persists. Since it is clear that there is a significant impact on the communities in 2018, the export value rate was nearly 18 billion. The loss of the state is high, but I would like to focus on the effects on the unions that depend on hairy development. This effect was discussed in the Kingdom News for the New Year's Day. In 2019 it was not only a huge loss of income in the fishing industry but also in companies who serve the fishing road, e.g. network, land management services, and other organisations that provide sea-sized services in areas where hairy work is performed. In contrast, the director - general of Tirabergs, a European Commission at Ness shop, believed that a recession between 2018 and 2019 had been about 35%. At the same time, there is a high impact on hairy workers, ranging from loss of income to loss of employment. The same U.S. radio report shows that the income of workers has dropped by 10 to 20% between years. For some, it can remember up to a million dollars per year. Farmers are also made up of heavy incomes when we suffer from hairy defects. The decrease in income of the population results in lower outlet incomes. This also reduces the income of the rural society from docks. A report produced for the European Commission in the seaside found that five rural societies had lost income from 23.5 million to 280 million. K. Clearly, then, the loss of income has a tremendous impact on the communities that depend on hairy farming, whether in rural, corporate, or staff. If there is continued failure, it should be up to you to consider whether in any way the state can meet this loss of income by countermand measures. We have examples of such things when in 2007 there was a fairly extensive counter measures due to cutbacks on codovate and an estimated 14 billion dollars. spent more than a few years in them. The protest efforts in the country at the time were varied, ranging from the indentation of old population to road construction and reform of state property, and were of significant importance, especially for employees who had lost their jobs on the seaside. Mr. President. This is a major blow to the communities that rely on hairy development when income is so closely combined. However, in many areas the growth of macrovota has been balanced against the loss of income in a number of communities. One way to meet this loss of income would be for the government to take counter measures, as was done in 2007. At the same time, a local fishing fee or part of it might be considered for the development of a wide range of activities, and it is in the hands of the rural communities themselves to make the most of the money.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u44	Mr. President. We're going to discuss a situation that's now related to hairy fishing in Iceland and the report that has come out. In this talk, I will first emphasize the social factor for the settlements, especially in the country, which are the worst in a hairy state. We are experiencing the fact that a hairy person may not be found another year in a row, and a whole community has had to face its to-do with it and to put up with its sails. The wealth may be one of 4,55 billion, but the export value of a sacred 2018 amounted to less than 18 billion. and had been on them for three years, about 18 billion a year. The greatest was the 2013 hunting and value, 34 billion. In most cases, the hairy is the second most desirable export of Icelandic fishing soil. The value of a catcher is followed by a stick of 13.5 billion. ... value. The majority of them are naturally at the top, and they have been doing so for many years. So the branch failure has a major impact on the communities where the fishing work is carried out, both on employees and on the local funds. In 2019 C.E., the city's authorities alone considered loss of income as a result of a failure of 2060 million. This is the amount expected in the company budget. There is also a significant impact on the survival of the municipal port fund. Despite the tolerance of such plaques by Far - Landed Seas, the high level of construction of the harbors will have a chain effect on the job. This decrease is added to a lower industry income for a large group of people, far beyond the order of the remote settlements. The impact, however, is highest in the Western Islands, where the majority of the landings have been hairy and were between 2016 and 2018 from 29% of the island's fishlands. Both the ice society that owns the largest object of the furwean, or just below 20% of its peak, as well as the VAT, which is the fourth largest food owner, with less than 11%, are located in town, while the four largest companies own nearly 60% of all the hairy fleet. Reports have been made that the first grouses of winter have been found in Iceland. A search expedition of three ships led by the marine research ship The Árni of Frirdur, the Friðriksson of Aurora, saw swarms north of the Horn coast and the Gulf. The amount is not vast, but it is the first natural fur screens that have been felt for a long time. As long as the situation is serious and there is no time predictable, the marine outcasts, the Far East, Langanesville, the Horni Society, the Western Islands, the crime of weapons, will be far behind them. These rural areas, together with the cohesion of marine economists, maintain a demand for a share of resource use in marine waters in order to cope with the fluctuations that are inevitable in operating, which are based on the use of the resource and to build a wide range of employment. During the early part of the last year, the General Assembly and the Government revised the government's financial programme to meet the tragedy then brought upon them by the failure of WOW air and the failure of a hairy house. Problems with Boing 737 Max Engines Illelanders were not fully identified at that point or how serious they would be. The same conditions apply to rural areas where the effects are different. The S.H.I.E.L.S. Association requested mid-year assistance from RR advisers to detect the effects of furtile failure on rural society for the management of the marine stabilization community. The objective of the analysis was to assess the direct impact of hairy failure on the financial and activities of the rural community, primarily to consider loss of income due to the lower pay of the population and loss of activity in marina activities. Other factors were not evaluated. Analysis of RR Advisers includes until after cod, the fur has been the second most important export species in Iceland. Flirting is confined to a particular season of hunting and is based on a requisition and counseling of the Habitat Research Centre. That rule allows for fishing to the point of leaving some 400,000 tons of puberty on a single occasion. The research of the Marine Research Agency for the last furturbing indicated that this criteria would not be met if the fishing was authorized. Thus, a marine research agency suggested that no longer be allowed to fish hairy fish at the time of 2018/20. We've been caught off Iceland continuously since 1963. Although there has been a very small fishing season, it has never been so that there has been no hunting before. This shows the seriousness of the problem now that the second consecutive year is due to the same trend as it was a year ago. The export value value was about 17.8 billion. In 2018, but most, as I came in before, 34 billion dollars. in 2013. So there is a tremendous impact on commercial fishing companies, their employees their companies, the marine economists, and the state funds. In the year 2019 it is estimated that failure to Flame reduces national production by 0.6%. Industrial development is primarily carried out in five rural communities, the Far East, the Langanesville, the Hornfjord, the Western island town, and a nation's nation of weapons. Thus, the shock is even higher in this area than in other rural areas. Direct effects of phlegm failure on their rural income are estimated to be over 500 million. K. In 2019 or in the course of 4,566.7% of taxes and in the ports. A total of over 13,000 inhabitants live in rural areas. Thus, the estimated loss of income is about 40,000. per population, or about 1 60,000 k. ... fora family of four. This may be included in the following table, and can be used to highlight the RR advice report on how this affects individual rural areas. This is a shock to the local community, as we have seen. Last year, the European Union compiled information on rural income due to a response payment in the early part of 2019 and compared with the previous year. Local pay increased throughout the country by 6.1%. The market increased from more than 4% to less than 7% in all parts of the country, except in the East, with an increase of 2.3%. So we can clearly see the magnitude of the blow in the East. Eastland is the largest facility in the country's undersea fishing and processing. It's like the highest. This government has given special attention to the growth of marine research. That emphasis was displayed, including increased funds for hairy research since 2018, as the minister did well. On the other hand, even though we have very skilled and powerful scientists, it is easier to count money in the fields than in the sea. Despite all technological advances, our knowledge of marine life is very limited. A few words about the prospect for the hairy stock in Iceland. The report discusses that prospect. It points to the lack of ability to look for future seasons based on the information available. This suggests that the measurement of the quantity of one year's hairy fall in 2018 does not give much hope. That index was 10.8 billion and has the lowest observed in the past few years. The report points to the fact that it was not uncommon in the 1990's to say that it was about 100 billion or 10 times higher. They say that the hairy stock will remain in a low condition. According to this, we may wonder whether we need to prepare just for the possibility that there will be a permanent failure in the years ahead. When reviewing the report's contents, questions arise: How does this affect the most relevant communities? Can anything be done in return? Need and is it possible to take some countermeasures because of this trend? I realize that it may be quite early to take this discussion, but I think if a relapse occurs in the second year of life, we need to ask the questions, since these are questions that we need to answer and prepare for. The report gives interesting coverage of the potential impact of marine warming on growth, walking, and the spread of furrows around Iceland. That's where even the two of them come from. to suggest that there is reason to change the temperature and thus change the state of the colder waters from the north and that the remains of the warm sea from the south in the north and east of the country have affected the course of footing in those regions. This is well described in the report, but I wondered if there is a basis for further examination. This applies not only to the hairy stock but to other strains. That's how you might even. to see if the rising temperature of the sea provides an opportunity to catch stocks that have not yet been caught. The subject here today is a large and enormously important one, as shown in the case already. Senators, the fur is the real foundation of the food chain in Iceland. However, I wanted to draw attention first to the communities in the country that are most relevant in this important discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u45	President. There's a lot to worry about, but it's not our place to stop the hairy. What we have to do is keep track of the sea resources, not only the way its environment is changing but also the way the strains go or enter the jurisdiction, to monitor them to give good information to the hunters and find them and to carry them out on how things might change, to predict them. The question is, What is the situation with regard to monitoring the marine resource? And so natural surveillance that it is not granted more than sustainability, which is the natural premise of the saying code system, at least as suggested. Now at the end of the last year, we were finishing the budget, which is the part of the state's budget that looks over the year, thinking and checking whether from the last budget anything unexpected happened, made changes that require further financial support. Those responsible for monitoring the marine resource should not be surprised to learn that there is an enormous amount of money when it comes to monitoring the resource. When we were finishing the budget, and it turned out from marine patrolrs that they needed money to do their job, money that wasn't installed, I wanted to know: "What's the situation? So I requested that the employment committee, which has to do with this group, our marine resources, the good and sustainable uses of it, be made aware of the sources of marine surveillance. I wished that the Committee and Enlightenment Research Institute, Fishing Room, and Food Organization, all of whom have a role in their own field of observation, would provide the committee and inform us, would have answers to questions sent to them. We just got them to a meeting. The question was asked: How does the Agency see the future of its work in relation to the financial resources it was given under budget? Is the Agency able to perform its legal function? Does the Agency have a need to increase the number of staff? And if so, can the Agency finance this growth? Does the Agency see the need to increase the number of projects? And if so, can it finance it? Does the Agency have to reduce the number of staff? We went to a particular place in fish farming, but this has to do with the fur, the conversation we are in here. But the answers? The job board sent the questions to the Rapporteurs, the Marine Research Agency, Fish Room and Food Organization. The answers we received from them when they came to our meetings were very much inconsistencies with the answers we received from a minister. You see, in December, the minister of this same question - that a senator can ask a minister with a request for a written answer and he has 15 days to answer. The day after these marine surveillance agencies came before a professional committee and told us about their history, we got quite a different minister. There's no line between us. A minister says that the funds necessary for these institutions are available. This can be read in the pages of the Generals. The answers have been published there. The person who's supposed to operate an independent research and counseling agency, a Marine Research Institute, research and counseling agency of the seas and lakes, a member who is a minister, operates under law. The law says, by permission of the president: ▪ The aim of these laws is to promote scientific knowledge about the environment and living resources into sea and fresh water and to promote the sustainable and profitable use of the resources. This party appeared to the committee and pointed out that he had gone through a lot of economic management. He still feels that he can perform his legal function, be successful in the case of circumstances, say he maintains the right level of seawater, but there is not much table for this, and they can missee the hairy thing, to watch the hairy thing, where it is. They say they were getting help from the deportation, but they now want to get something for them, and a minister needs to consider the future. For they say the sea and the floods, and the heat is changed. And at the time of these dramatic changes - the hairy is disappearing, we can only find it to a very small extent, the mackerel is coming, there are major changes - are being cut down. They're demanding enormous profits from this same institution, a Meritional Research Institute, that's to take care of this surveillance. This is a very unwise setting of priorities. Then about a fishing room that also came to a meeting. The people watching Goblin know what the situation is, it's not good. They monitor the implementation of fish fishing management laws. In this discussion, people have been referring to the possibility of overfishing. Overfishing or evading, and that's not good in Iceland. These institutions are starving, they fail to perform that role - the main role of the saying system - to make sure that this is a sustainable technology. They're not doing that. They tell us that it lacks funding in order to do so better. A fishing room mentions and repeatedly mentioned it. It's missing, for example. The cameras, that would be profitable and clear. Why is it not possible to monitor the event? You start to ask yourself, " Why is it lost? ' [[Take it up, take it easy, take it easy, take it easy, take it easy, ……]] A minister tells me to stay calm. It's just a lot of heat. This is an enormously important number of people, even pointing out that minimum monitoring criteria were never set. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] It's a very bad situation with our most important resource, it's extremely poor to monitor it, not because of the lack of the will of those who take care of it themselves, and call it repeated, under stress, that it needs to be more cared for. The News Review of this monitoring report is just a black spot on the administration of our fishing roads. At the same time, it is being noted that the Ministry's orders are to perform a measure of control that is not being carried out, which is at the expense of the monitoring necessary to ensure that the resource is not being misplaced. And it's stated by the Food Institute on Marine Administration that they say they can do their job just fine. They feel that they can fulfill this role. But when it comes to Oceanographic Institute and Fish Room, the situation is extremely bad. If we really want to take care of our resource, if we really want to know what its evolution is, if we really want to know where the fur is going, then we have to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u46	A respectable president. The report presents many and none of them. The answers and reports of the entire body highlight the importance of strong and varied marine research and the practical support of these studies. New approaches also need to be used because of changes in walking practices, history of life, and so forth, like other marine creatures. There is also a need to expand the cooperation of research institutions, Marine Research Centres, and other institutions. This will also help us to create a more varied view and a new one for the subject. It is a quick and deepening combination of species in which changing environmental factors play into. There are extreme fluctuations in the location of hairy stems and likely in the way of life. This crystals well in the data presented in the report. There was a strong connection between the quantity of caught fur and the cod before the species was checked out. Thus, hunting statistics gave evidence of stock size and even what was expected with cod position. I would like to emphasize the importance of our research ships, that they are being held out, as well as their cooperation with phonies of hairy fishing and fishing on other surreals. In relation to this, I would like to review the answer to a query that I asked for at the Ministerial Assembly of 2016◯2017 to the then minister of the graduations of research ships by the National Institutes of ETS and other questions. I received very clear answers that covered outing days and their assignments, e.g. as measured by the size of the hairy stock, marine research, assessment of hunting and spawning growths in winter layer, etc. It was over many years, the 2000 ◯2016. Also, I asked a minister if she thought there was enough money to study at the Oceanographic Institute, and the answer was not complicated, so it wasn't. It would take a substantial additional amount of money for these tests, so I'm going to refer to this nice inquiry, as well as the answers. Back to the report. This was a fine trace of a minister of earlier standards and prospects for stocks and fishing, and it was found that fishing stock now consists mostly of a single year's growth, 85 to 101 percent at the age of 3 and so on. and then only on how your tests are being measured. However, the report also shows that measurements of young fur, i.e. A first year of fur, however, has not been conducted since 2003, the last time a so - called expedition was taken. A projection was decommissioned for savings, but it was gone each year from 1976 to 2003 to assess the quantity of crops in Iceland. Such important studies are not good and create even greater uncertainty about the situation. Looks are very bad now about the next season, as noted, that's very dark prospects. Of course, we hope for the best. In view of the importance of interracial fishing, the level of uncertainty that remains to be maintained and the scope and quality of each year is very bad. Will there be research ships and funds to keep them out of research? Who else is involved in these tests? In view of the importance of this, the future needs to be more stable, more determined, and better cut. It also applies to other species, species as well as others, their interaction, and especially the transformation of species and marine ecosystems. Now, I'd like to come to that. We know the mackerel, who has certainly replaced a number of things that have moved here. We know other species that have really been moving to and many colder species that have even been there and are in trouble like the hatch that is moving north. We're getting other more souther species on the base. I can name the soda, or strudel, that I found that the first spawn was in Iceland in 2001 and then covered the country in the following years. We can talk about the tusks, which have also spread as well as these species, even though they are known by a pattern of life where they were once, may appear as totally new animals with new ways of eating, and unknown effects on the living things and ecosystems in which they study land, as we know by the arts. For example, to create BioPol on the Skaga coast, professional research on him in different areas of the country almost completely stopped talking after the application site, and unlike what was known in other species. In other words, we are somewhat vulnerable in our hunting counsel because of limited knowledge, especially in view of the many changes in our lives, and perhaps we have been too encouraged to use the same methods, the same approaches, and I cannot help but keep up with the importance of looking at more needles, other ways to approach these subjects. The report for this discussion is beneficial as far as it goes, but it also highlights the limitations of our knowledge of what is going on in our marine ecosystems around the country. We need more knowledge about the effects of different marine environmental instruments and individual species such as fur. Is it possible to produce unnecessary noises or to cause the death of marine animals and fish with some fishing instruments? Marine research and the Ministry have been rather negligent in this regard, as shown by the opening of peaceful areas back before draft fishing. But to sum this up: Here, research needs to be done much more, both natural and natural, as well as the importance of a number of useful species for Icelanders and settlements around the country and present situation is very serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u47	A respectable president. I have to start by thanking, like others, for the request and just as much for a brilliant report. There are many things that are interesting and many that the report emphasizes that we know, but we may not necessarily be focusing on solving at any given time. Of course, it is a disaster for us Icelanders when it appears that they have relapsed in their appearance. I don't think that's ever been two years in a row in recent years. Yet, I want to know that I want to maintain my optimism. 2017 was found small stickers past January/February, and then it came up from the middle of February to become one. that the long - standing sea strike might be solved. At least it was an important turn into a difficult strike. They came, and they came to a considerable extent then, and they had a great deal to do for national preparation, about 18 billion, if I recall correctly, in exports, including the U.S. So it's a big deal we're discussing here if we're confronted, with Icelanders, that maybe we'll have a fluffy now and maybe some other time in the next few years. When you run through the report, it's mainly academic. I find it useful, and I would like to commend a minister for taking very technical action and have sought out our best specialists in whale research, in terms of marine life. I think it's relevant to an upbuilding conversation over a short and longer period of time, whether we're researching hairy stock or other fish stocks around Iceland. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson gave an answer less than three years ago or more than two years ago about whether the Institute for Research has been and is sufficiently financial. I feel to some extent a minister, there's not enough research to be put into the ocean. For example, when it comes to funding the demands of us as prominent seafarers, it is not a matter of holding sufficient weight around the Habitat Institute. It is looked to us and has always been looked to for us in the last 203/430 years when it comes to research and sustainable use, whether it is a species of fish in the sea or any other part of the environment. So it's an old story and new, and I don't think I've met the ocean leader who's comfortable with the funds placed in an Marine Research Institute. I'm sure it's a good thing that we're about to get, hopefully, within three years, a preferably two new ocean - study ship. That's going to matter. It also means that we have to let money follow the operation of a new ship. This can have tremendous significance for us and for the whole seabed. It's one of the messages, to keep a better arm around the Oceanographic Institute. I warn that, on account of the other interests and the other desires, people go out of their way and use their opportunity and resources at Edro because they are not satisfied with results or guidance, whether in the fishing or in the fishing field, they are not satisfied. I'm warning you. It is an enormous advantage for us Icelanders that Merro will act independently and receive the support of all to carry out the remarkable work assigned to her every time. Then there's the other thing that I think is important too, what this report tells us about the big picture. It's because we have to be on our toes, and we need to take all the signals that are and relate to them. The temperature of the sea when it comes to the environment. I also feel that this report is urgent for us to improve the quality of the environment, to improve the quality of our discussion and decisions on the global climate change. Since this affects us and our basic ways of living, we must never allow anywhere to interfere with what we want as a Kingdom that binds our quality of life to the use of resources. It has been discussed whether to perform any specific procedures in case of failure. I haven't really been in favor of it, and I don't agree with it. I'd much rather look at general operations in order to strengthen wood than we'll see that there were 8,000 people without employment today in December of Iceland. This is more than has ever been since 2013. That means we have to, and especially now because of our economy, relax in the economy, attackinvestment. That's what we need to do, try to keep looking at the big picture, go to the internal investors, where we build up the electrical network, go to road repairs, or more of the elements that call for building wood. I'd also like to point out, and do it naturally in connection with this, on the way we have frequently pointed to the government of the seaside. It's no secret that we've said that the market should be set for labor and even for the purposes of the market. to use the value available through the market route to enter the infrastructure of the affected areas, in the fishing areas. I think that would help to make areas that are falling apart because of possible fragility failure would remain stronger. We also know that in the Western Islands, the failure of hairy cells will have one of the most significant significance in the case of the largest furrows. I think it would be fine if the resource charge was through the market route, and although they said simply the resource price would flow into the sea villages, our sea farms. This would have great meaning for the rural community to build up. I understand the proposals have been returned to the highest level. Minister, something similar to what was done back then less than three years ago, i.e. changes in rural areas and the 5.6% of the population provided through urban parks, through line integration, coastal fishing, etc. I think it's important that we have the courage to strengthen our rural society, provide them with more self-control and self-infliction of how they are assigned to the settlements, so that it's theirs to appreciate, as I've mentioned before in this chair. When we discussed these ideas at the time, for example, a Susgavik said: "We don't really have much to do with the settlement, but the value would go to building travel services. They're focused on it, and I think we're supposed to give our rural society a little more self-inflicted through the vast amount of money in the fishing field. This can be done with the suggestions that we have made on our restoration and have provided suggestions. It is hard to see that it is not too hairy. I'll tie it, though, as I said before, still hope that it will come true. We still have three, four weeks of time to get these measurements better, and I really hope that by a price, this has meaning for sailors, this has meaning for land workers. This has meaning for the entire population. Part of its survival on the fur work, and that's why it's a serious matter we have to follow up on the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u48	Mr. President. Here we will discuss a report on the utilisation and ecological significance of the hairy population by the Sea Scourges and Agriculture Ministers between 2000 and 2020. We've been caught with Icelanders since 1963. Although the size of the hairy stock is known to be fluctuated, it has never been before, as it is seen today, that two different seasons in a row fail and no hunting is permitted. According to a marine research agency available for fishing each season, based on annual efforts to leave some 350,000,400,000 tons of sexually mature furunculture at a time, the research program for the last hairy cycle indicated that these criteria would not be met if the fish were allowed and therefore no food would be released. As you can see from the data from this report, the hairstyle pattern has changed. There is reason to believe that changing the temperature of the sea with higher surface temperatures and changing cold currents from the north and from the south in the region north and east has affected the walking of this region. The shifting patterns of the fur are partly attributed to these changes in the temperature of sea and currents. I'd like to agree with what's been going on during this discussion that it is important to improve our research on the changes in the oceans and their impact on crops around the country. I'd like to ask a minister if there were any telecommunications in the ocean and hairy research or if that's an opinion. The report suggests that in view of its short - lived species and high variations in its size, it is unwilling to predict the future evolution of the plant. Based on the changes that have been over the past few years, it is quite difficult for me to be optimistic about strengthening the strain. The report explains that the management plan for the next season is not good based on the information available. In the fall of 2018, measurements of one - year - old hairy levels do not give much hope, but the index number of 10.8 billion is among the lowest observed in the past few years. It was not unusual in the 1990's for the more than 100 billion, as the report shows. In addition to its most valuable crops, it is also an important food product of other organisms, such as fish, whales, and birds. It is difficult, though, to recognize its effect on the size of the stock and has been very well considered in this discussion. The lack of hair has a major impact on the entire population, but how does it affect the most fished communities? The S.H.A.R. Association of the marine egressary community was given counselling to detect the effects of hairy deficiency on rural areas. This analysis was published in July 2019, based on data created by the Society at the Far East, Langanesville, the Santa Society of Hornfjordur, the West Side, and the Parote Islands. The objective of this analysis was to assess the direct impact of HF on the financial and activities of the rural community. There is a loss of income because of the lower pay on the population and because of a decrease in waterfront activities. Analysis of RR advisers shows, with permission of the President: ▪ The effects of phlegm failure on their farm income are estimated to exceed 500 billion. K. In 2019, between 4,566.7% of revenues and ports. A total of over 13,000 inhabitants live in rural areas. Thus, the estimated loss of income is about 40,000. To each resident. Such loss of income greatly affects the business of the rural community and reduces their ability to render legal service to its inhabitants. The effects vary from one country to another from one to the next. Their opportunities to earn other money to counter the loss are limited and will be given the opportunity for citizens to find suitable employment. There is an example for the development of counter measures in this way, especially in rural areas whose lives are built on water fishing and recycling. It is also important to note that the concomitant use of these fragility defects has resulted in severe downturns in summer herring due to the infection she is undergoing. The lack of income that the communities, the fishing, and, most important, the land workers have had has suffered during the recent failures, both because of hairy failure and herring infections, is very high. Therefore, I encourage a minister to examine solutions to improve the communities that have suffered this unexpected loss of income in some way, many of which have been done over the years in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u49	Mr. President. Biologists say that the journeys of fur are nothing more than a transfer of some kind to marine biomass, one death being another's bread. Here we see how the food chain of life works in its most pure form. The combination is complicated, and we often don't fully understand it, even though the creatures are right in front of us, let alone hide in the depths of the ocean. We are far from fully understanding it. One thing is certain: The population must be large enough to allow the growth of the population to sustain itself, to be self-sustained, to be self-sustained, to be self-sustained, not to go to its stock size. But the fur must be put to death by giving birth to many fish, many whale species, and seabirds, and man is in direct competition with all these bandits of fur. It's complicated, Mr. President. Seabirds eat hairy, codfish also eats hairy; 150,000 tons, says the highest. Minister, quote scientists. Human intervention can have an effect, such as. If one link in the chain is pulled away, or if one link is allowed to grow freely, all of this works. Long - suffering, curly, and humpbacks are the most powerful species of whales, considering their food on fish and including hairy fish. Today, the human race has virtually stopped catching whales, only to a limited extent, compared with what used to be the case. Does it have an effect? During the past few years, changes in the ocean around Iceland have become the most clear example of these changes, as the mackerel enters our jurisdiction. No one knows for sure the consequences of these changes in the oceans will be the future hairy population. Last year, no hairy fishing was permitted, and it does not look good for the future season. Lavish products have long been an important part of the national exports and the collapse of the stock and the bans of the year's year will mark the economic situation of the nation. In the second consecutive year, there will be a very serious impact on the communities that make much of their business on hairy farming, such as those on the south coast, for the formation of the Western Islands and Hornafjörður. Lobster failure has an impact not only on the survival of plants in these places but on the whole community; the community, the community, the services, sailors, and the fish industry. How important it is for them to develop a hairy hair! Mr. President. When hairy fishing was at its height in the islands, society came to life after the calmness of Christmas. The town's countenance changed completely. The townspeople smiled at the ears, and everyone had enough to do the cane, not only the sailors, but also the fish farms, the motormen, the repair repairs; the shops were overrun, the restaurants, and even the hotels had more customers who were bought from distant continents that had come to monitor the processing of the product. This was the fur line, which gave life to the city, just as a hairy thing gives life in the ocean's food chain. Mr. President. It must be kept in mind that during the past few decades and decades, the material creation of caught fur has completely changed. Today, much smaller amounts of fur are now available for huge national revenues. It is not as in the past, since the fur was scraped up and sold for relatively low prices. It is important, not only for the communities that are largely built on these fish, but also for the national preparations as a whole, to continue a vigorous search for a peak. The minister reported in his speech. It is also important that if walking is found to be the best of science and experience in recent decades, when the fishing is determined. V.E.G. A minister also needs to consider that a relatively small amount of hairy material is needed to prevent much damage to the national structure and to the communities discussed. This is where I'm talking about the danger that important markets can be lost, they don't bring any products into those two years in a row. Much smaller than a few years ago, it's more valuable. This results in better treatment of the product, much better processing procedures, better efficiency, and, especially, better marketing of hairy products. If a phlegm gets severe on the second year in a row, I call it, as if more dogs do. Councilmen, after counterbillary acts by the government in behalf of the communities that such failures are gaining weight. Often, such measures have been needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u50	A respectable president. I want to reiterate that it is a very serious crisis for the nation's economic and professional situation when a fish species such as hairy collapses. There can be no more talk than a collapse, a respectable president, when the nation's second - largest crops can be fished for years and its prospects for use are dark. I would especially like to thank all those who have participated in this need for this objective discussion and for expanding our vision of the situation as it is. Thank you very much. A minister for his fine report, for it was he who saw to it that it was started at my wish and that of more members of the council. I would especially like to recommend a major initiative in economic ecology research on the state of the country, with regard to the situation we now face.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u51	A respectable president. I would also like to thank you for the discussion that has been conducted here. It has certainly gone far and wide, many good things that have been said and said. Yet, I feel that there is a lack of firmness in the discussion of where we want to be individuals or nations to compete with other aspects of living things in the use of natural resources. We are competing with them on the subject of furting with whales, birds, fish, and for our best scientific opinion that a bird is taking more than we took from its stock, the fish as well as the whales even more. So if we look at it this way, it would be equal to the fact that the Icelanders only increased ships and spread the parish to the little remainder of their lives. Nothing's happening. We support such research and because this was called for the advice of the best scientists each time, we make it, and we set nations at the head of a study of these fish. I just want to remind you that there's never been more money available to research on fur than there's already been, but, of course, we could use more money to study the entire biosaturation system. True, it is natural and good and urgent that such a course be done. I'd like to mention the discussion about the survival of the settlements--yes, certainly. The Department of the Marine Department has no alternative to this. It's a community, it's financial, it's also connected with infrastructure, school, health, road transport, etc. [[The president calls.]] This will take a much larger approach than the fact that some government agency can carry it if this should go to that work, if we lose the second half in our search for fur too. [[The president calls.]] We lost the first half of the game that ended last weekend, the second half takes place in February.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u52	Mr. President. I recommend a synopsis of the Prize of the Haag Act of 1954 for the protection of cultural protection in armed conflicts. My associates are members of the United Nations, Friðbjörg Fjord of Elíasdóttir's daughter, Ólafur Ölfur Ágústsson, Sheikhsson S. Brjánsson, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, and Logi Einarsson. This proposal was previously moved to a 149th legislature but could not be fulfilled and is thus reassigned unchanged. The 1954 Hag Treaty is an international contract made after the World War II trial when priceless cultural value was damaged and lost, the first international contract designed to protect culture in armed conflicts. Governments that are part of the contract commit to protect cultural value when armed conflicts occur and cover the agreement of mobile and non-swift cultural barriers, such as buildings, art, books, manuscripts, documents, and cultural sites, regardless of origin or ownership. The benefits of Member States on the contract include: that it contributes to the preemptive activities of peace time by registering cultural value, making emergency reservations for cultural destruction, preparing mobile cultural protection, and promoting their protection at the possession site, Member States showing respect for cultural merits within their own borders and within other Member States, not putting them at risk in armed conflicts, and are prepared to promote violations of the treaties and to present the agreements for the public and stakeholders, including: Specialists in the preservation of cultural prices and reactants. The cultures that have special protection under the contract are marked by the protection sign of the contract, the Blue Shield. The blue badge may include have many buildings in Europe. The 133 countries are now party to the deal, 110 countries are party to the first addition of the contract from 1954 and 81 countries to the second addition of the 1999 Convention. In Europe, all countries are involved in the contract except Iceland, Andorra, Moldova and Malta. Norway became an party in 1961, Sweden in 1985, Finland in 1994, and Denmark in 2003. We have many examples in recent years, where priceless civilizations have been damaged or destroyed in wars. In 1993, for example, a 16th - century bridge in Most, Bosnia - Herzegovina, was blown up in armed conflicts. Another example that many may remember is the destruction of the speech bears in 2001 on Buddha images from the 6th century C.E. in the Bahamas Valley of Afghanistan. Then the U.S. President Donald Trumpur, a fierce response to the international community, threatened at the beginning of this month to blow up the cultural elements of Iran if the Iran were to avenge America's Soleimani of General Soliani in the Irish Army. The United States entered the Hague Convention in 2009, and thus Trumpur's threats were fraught with the deal's objective. The International Society reacted strongly to these threats from the President of the United States, which eventually drew ashore. Peoples that are destroyed or destroyed will not be replaced and are usually lost forever. Thus, the deliberate destruction of cultural value is a crime against the groups or nations of which they belong, thus cutting down permanent gaps in history and their self - image, and, in fact, a deliberate destruction of culturally desirable war crimes. In 1st. The contract shows that the damage to cultural values belonging to any group of people defends the entire human race, where each of us contributes to the culture of the world. Thus, the preservation of culture is important for all mankind, and therefore cultural value should be given international protection. Iceland would be involved in the 1954 Hague Treaty for protecting civilists in armed conflicts, making it possible for a better overview of cultural value available in this country, and the application plans to be made in museums, libraries, archives, and cultural centers on how to cope with danger. More important, involvement would lead directly and indirectly to a better and more compatible response to cultural protection when disaster strikes, such as earthquakes, volcanoes, and floods occur. During the past decade and a half, we Icelanders have experienced how hard and harsh Icelandic nature can be. These include the 2008 Southland earthquake, the 2010 Eyjafjordian eruption, and the 2011 Grima Lakes, and now the last avalanche of Flats and Sugland by this month. In that case, when e.g., a summary and plans for response would be improved. other disasters, such as fires, occur. In recent years, we have seen the disastrous consequences of their culture, e.g. a fire that usually took place at the ground of Brazil's National Museum in 2018 and the fire in Notre Dame Church in Paris last year. But it must also be remembered that only 80 years have passed since Iceland's military service, thus being drawn into the World War II championship. Then people were concerned that cultural value could be lost if an air strike occurred in Reykjavík or in some way. documents and books were transferred from the Congregation Hall at Shafisgat on Fleas in Aarnes County, where they were placed during the war. Mr. President. In recent years the government has been brought to the attention of this agreement, including did so by letter to the Ministry of Education and Culture in 2012, and the U.S. State Department's Report Committee introduced the Hague Treaty to the National Committee on Humane rights in the Ministry of State in 2016. Now before the council the resolution proposal that I have presented here is my hope that it will receive good coverage and finally be approved. Finally, I suggest that this case be sent for further implementation at the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u53	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir I'm gonna need Sigurðsson's son for a great second move. I was very pleased with her last time, and I'm glad she's back. But I want to make good use of my knowledge. To understand this phenomenon, a senator. The importance of protecting cultures is crystal clear. Hv. A senator mentioned some cases, such as in Most, where this beautiful bridge has been rebuilt, and in Bameyan, where the same restoration is to be done, and then in cases like when Donald Trump threatens destruction on memory. Perhaps you could also mention that many of Iraq's areas were damaged in smaller ways. There has been a tendency for people who are at war for cultural reasons to view their culture as a special targets and even view the Blue Shield as a cause for attack. I know what you're doing. A member of the council to prevent this from taking place or something that can be done to prevent it? I would be very much in favor of putting the Blue Shield on an appropriate house in Iceland. This has often been a problem, and I have worked in several war zones where there have been a direct problem in mind because of the fact that people are marking it with the Blue Shield, leading terrorists directly to the valuables.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. As I mentioned in my history, the deliberate destruction of cultural values is viewed as a crime against the groups or nations of which they belong because by destroying something irreparable and nations correspond to and often reflect themselves are being cut down permanently in history, even the self - image of these groups or nations. It is considered a war crime that deliberately destroys cultural value, and I know it, only recently, that individuals have been accused as war criminals for deliberately destroying cultural value and were judged for it. I think it's an option that we have if someone goes so low that anyone deliberately destroys the cultural value. I think I answered the question of the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u55	Mr. President. I appreciate that answer. It's in the right direction. The fact that there is a serious penalty for this type of war crime is very appropriate, as with other forms of war crime. The resulting damage can be infinite, e.g. with the memories of Palemira, which were destroyed several years ago by Isis and the Buddha image in Bamyan, lost cultural properties that will never be improved even if they are rebuilt in the same image as they were done in Most. Maybe it's enough, but then you have to take into account, too, that not all countries are members of the International War Crime Court in Hague. Perhaps in particular, the United States has failed to be prosecuted, i.e. that the U.S. authorities have not supported the process of an international war crime court that can handle such cases. In view of the global activities of the U.S. military force, this is a reason for a measure of anxiety. But this is probably the best answer available at the moment, so thank you. A senator for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u56	Mr. President. Like what? It is a matter of punishment for this crime of war, as is the case with other forms of war because it is thus classified. That's what we have today. I mentioned in my story an example from this month when the president of the United States threatened to destroy culture in Iran. This sparked the tremendous response of the international community. A statement was made by UNESCO, international organisations, international cultures, international archives, members of the United States, and individuals highly esteemed in this area. It seems to me that this caused him to back up with the threat, and it is also that the pressures and interest of the international community in this matter is more important than that of men like this. It's very important. In this context, it can also be noted that the United States is a party to the Hague agreement, so if the U.S. President had made this threat, he would have violated this agreement, and the contract requires that nations be punished for the violation of the agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u57	Mr. President. I want to make an interesting statement about the possibility of Icelanders being able to produce an eco-efficient fuel for use because electricity will not be directly available, such as on fishing vessels, on airplanes, and on machines. It is not known when other possibilities for these factors will be practical and may be of special interest to us Icelanders in this regard. The proposal is made by all the members of the Central Party, and it reads: ▪ The General concludes to hide a transport, industrial and innovation minister to have an assessment of whether non-carbon fuels can be produced in Iceland by using some of its electricity production to produce such fuels for larger employment devices and by extracting carbon from biomass, the atmosphere, or other sources. The evaluation will include evaluation of national benefits, including the competitiveness of the country, by making fishing, freight and passenger transport, as well as other work of larger businesses, eco-friendly. It will be prepared and presented to the Council no later than April 1, 2020. The paper that follows the suggestion says: This proposal suggests that tourism, industrial and industrial development ministers will be assigned to evaluate the actual potential of using a portion of the nation's electricity production to produce noncarbon-carbon fuels. All fire fuel is carbon and hydrogen. Thousands of compounds are made up of these two elements in various chains. It is easy to manufacture hydrogen by means of electricity, and carbons can be obtained in different ways. There are companies that have developed methods to reduce carbon levels from the atmosphere and either plant them in the earth or plan fuel processing. One of these companies sent his representative to the country today on autumn days to introduce their methods to Icelandic rulers. In fact, it may be in the past that the Canadian state has invested in this company called Carbon Noneering, planning to use its technology to reduce carbon and turn carbon into fuel. Other methods of producing carbon are also used, and such companies as Carbon Recycling, Iceland, produce methadone using similar basic methods. In the production of carbon-free fuels, it is the simplest and most likely the most efficient method of using biomass to produce carbon. Life's weight is getting even. from various wastes, plastics, and wood wastes. In addition, biomass can easily be cultivated in non-transfusion regions, e.g. with tree farms or culture of other plants that produce much crops and trees Life's weight is rich in valuable side effects, such as chemical products, which could be increasingly used as the product grew. Electric energy can be used to produce hydrogen and has been known for decades. Vessels would be used against biomass, and thus energy would be increased. The production of the weather could be fluctuating and could possibly be through some extent beyond the system's energy. This means, in effect, that to some extent it is possible to win the biomass over a period of time and to complete the process by adding hydrogen to less use and excess energy in the system. The benefits of the use of eco-friendly fuels on the nation's seaship may be high. Such a change could be a major source for tourism in Iceland, but flying and tourism are becoming increasingly critical because of the high emissions of greenhouse gases. Hydrocarbons are known and used in many chemical ways. Knowledge of these methods is available here. The benefits of producing and using noncarbonous fuels include: It is possible to use the same infrastructure, storage procedures, and transport that humans are already using. Furthermore, no changes in technology are needed as fuel is really the same as it is currently in use. A great advantage is to be able to make new investments that already exist, rather than make everything new. Iceland's position on the possibility of producing carbon-free fuel is, in many respects, unique. Here's a lot of production of eco-friendly electricity, and the key is that production is largely owned by the nation. The motion turns to get the energy over to the point that it can be used to drive a larger commercial tool where direct use of electricity for that purpose is not practical in the predictable future. This would enable the energy of the land's fallwaters, including the U.S. On a fishing ship and a national flying fleet. Mr. President. I have no doubt that there may be great opportunities for us Icelanders to use in this way the unique natural conditions here. A great amount of energy is produced in an eco-friendly way and a lot of non-food crops, but it may be useful for plants to produce biomass. Many flights could be struck at one point, reduced greenhouse gas emissions so much about much, much positive, economic impacts occurring in the vastly reduced import of fossil fuels and market precursors due to eco-friendly production methods, the use of existing infrastructures, the use of agricultural knowledge, and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u58	A respectable president. I would like to start by thanking you for the unexpected opportunity to deliver my conquistador proposal in the fall. It was a pleasure to see my name on the screen this morning when I got to work, but I also thought about how the work arrangements are at the council. People often do not have much preparation, but I am so happy that I have the opportunity to move it myself because I am a professional member of the council these days. This proposal for Congress is about the construction of a tunnel between Eelfjörður and Skullfjörður, while ensuing by the Council to hide transport and rural management ministers from putting aerospace tunnel between Eelfjörður and Skullsfjörður in Icefjörður on transport schedule 2020-52034, to put the tunnel in operation programme for the period 2020/2024 and to reject studies and preparation for the construction of the tunnel. The secretary will submit a report on progress by 2020. The Parliamentary arrangement follows an article that gives support to the case and the importance of its fulfillment. As a world of Congress must know, the only road between northern and other parts of the West is the Sóslavík, which is not the other route during the wintertime. When the weather is severe, however, and the roads close. This arrangement suggests that transport and rural development ministers place aerospace tunnel between Eelfjörður and Skullfjörður on transport, which may require that transport procedures be precisely discussed in the course of time. The Environment and Transport Committee, so I would say that the proposal would be made at a good time. I'd like to point out that the General Assembly agreed on 12 October 2016, at the 145th legislation, the resolution of a four-year transport program in 2015-2018 to provide funding for the preparation and investigation of the Sports Passage between 2017 and 2018, but nothing has happened in this material. I am deeply sorry that I had thought that once the General agreed to something, it should be done. I am very disappointed that nothing has happened in these matters. You see, this isn't the first time we've moved here. An ex-concommunicator of the Conspiracy, Þorvarðardóttir, gave this subject several times, and it is a matter of interest to the Westerners to place these tunnels on. It's a big safety point, too. The Sleek Bay is defined as 22 avalanche roads, and there are numerous examples of avalanches and snowstorms on the slope. The road and the sea floodhouse of the Weather Room have carefully watched all the signs of danger and have issued warnings and, if so, shut the door. I heard the locals of Suggaví this morning and I asked her to look at her phone. She has received over 30 text messages from the Weather Service just in January about some warning signs, that the slope is closed, that is an uncertain situation, or that it is simply a crisis. We figure for ten or even twelve days, the hill was shut down - just in January, see. We are all happy when this month ends because it has been very difficult to deal with in terms of the weather. The situation, however, is that this slope is a major road block. Not only are avalanches but they are not particularly dangerous when it comes to a rock - mass. Sadly, though, there are cases of major damage to the rock - mass. When I thought about it this morning, I remembered that we were very fortunate two years ago when a drunk high school car drove a cliff and rolled. Fortunately, everyone survived, but it could have been very bad. Therefore, this is not just a basis, it is also a serious safety issue that should be taken seriously. We know these hills well. Bolung tunneles that were designed to rid us of the Opportunity, as many know, were also taken out of parentheses because they were not only transport and settlements but also security issues. I'd like to mention that now there's a considerable amount of activity going on in the spray bay. They're putting down steel panels, avalanche cabinets, etc. And I ask you, fine senators, to consider whether money is well spent, whether it would be better to go into a tunnel immediately. That's exactly what we did on the Opsacity. We set up the so - called road barracks and steel panels as a security issue. Then it turned out that it was better to enter a tunnel, so I wondered if we could handle money there, if it would be better to cut them straight into a tunnel, because we learned from the case of Bolungarvík. The Bolungarvík has completely changed the lives of us Westerners, that is a complete change in our lives. It will also happen with these tunnels when they become reality. I am so optimistic, and I believe that they will become reality. The first step is to get them on a travel schedule, and that is what this Parliamentary proposal is all about. It can also be pointed out that all deliveries with daily goods are going through S such as Susavík and Sólvík, north of the West. We often get hit by trucks trapped in Susavík, and they don't get their daily warning into Ísafjörður. It's working. We also have a large supply of food on the north side of the West, and we have fresh fish, which is a great deal of the country's roads. This can be harmed by the failure of trucks to make their way. Besides what may be most important, the people of Susavík are attending all their basic services at Isengard, health services, welfare services, etc. Children attend more and less all leisure time on Ísafjörður. Although a highly ambitious elementary school and a school in Sussavík are expelled, the children attend leisure work on Ísafjörður so that these tunnels are highly recommended. Although I have reasoned that this is mainly a matter of security, the basis also means much. I think these communities will work with each other better together and will be more compatible when transportation becomes easier, and when both children and adults can have a clear way between these days of the year. Finally, I would like to encourage the United States of Congress to make this suggestion. This is undoubtedly the most dangerous road in the country. And if it weren't for that good watch of the Weather Hall, I think we'd be witnessing very serious accidents. Happily, we have a very good avalanche watch. Many sound on the slopes measure avalanches, but they do not measure rocks that are as dangerous on this slope as they are. I just want to read from the report, by permission of the president: ▪ Over the winter months, the road through the church slope and the Slysavík has entered the deep northern western transport point. Some assessments have been made in recent years of possible improvement on the way to spray spores. This is specifically referred to a work group on Deep-Solve Security Between Bolungarvík and Bolungarvík in November 2002... A substitution on food risks caused by avalanches and a storm of rock between Susavík and Bolungarvík, reports that there are twice the annual deaths of those traveling around this hill. This must be unacceptable in view of the criteria we have in transport in general. We're also trying to make North West into one of the jobs and habitats, and this is a very important thing to do. Many take jobs from Susavík into Ísafjörður and then from Isafjordur to Susavík and actually from Flatty to Susavík, etc. so we're one of the jobs and habitats we're living in, but it may be dangerous to travel on this slope. As we have considered, this tunnel would include a fundamental transportation system for the inhabitants of Sósgavík and the northern West. This is especially true during wintertime. Now I wish for that at the highest. President that the Constitution proposal will be referred to the Environment and Transport Committee for further discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lárus Jónsdóttir for her story and thank her for doing this fine thing. As the senator is aware, for a long time they have had to struggle to make it difficult to visit one another. To enable them to do so by routes other than sea and land, they were blown up in a hole on the Eagleeshamer 1949 and will be the oldest tunnel in Iceland as well as the shortest, 30 meters or so. As the senator mentioned in his talk, there has been a long talk of hierarchicalism, usually spoken of taking off the bottom of the Elfis, and often talked about going to the torrent valley of Enigor. There are also other ways, and what I wanted in the previous answer to ask the senator to discuss is whether she was aware of the way people are now talking about, what had men been planning to stab, and what might be expected they might be a long tunnel. [[Up front.]] I think that most of us who have walked and driven and lived in this area feel that there is no tremendous distance between us, so for many, it should be a relatively small matter to do this. What, though, are some of the ways in which humans are concerned today?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u60	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I have always imagined that the tunnel would take off the Valley of Enggi and go straight to the bottom of the Elfarf. Then we're also talking about a significant decrease in distances for the people of Bolungarvík and Susgavík to Reykjavík because that's when people get past the bottom. Men may save 20 miles total by going that way, it's quite long. A tunnel is enormously expensive, and the road always looks at going as few miles as possible, but the way most people talk about is from the torrent valley and straight into the bottom of the Elf River. I think she's the wisest.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u61	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answers. Depending on how it was parked, it would be kept somewhere between seven miles [7 km] and completely down to 5, depending on how high it goes up to the hills on both sides. That's exactly what the senator came into, that this would shorten the way into Deep. Well, not everyone goes to Reykjavík, who drive into the Deep, fortunately, so it would matter. Then there's another one I'd like to pass, since I have a chance to do it. Sometimes it has been thought of making a long tunnel from the bottom of Icefjord into Engdal. It is only a 1,37,338 km distance that is not an infinite distance in itself, but it would shorten the way from Icefjordur to the bottom of the Deep about 100 miles [100 km]. It would be an enormous means of transportation. I just want to know if in this large context, the senator wondered about it because we are often talking about taking less baptisms, as the senator did, in the way we solve problems rather than being a little radical in thought and action and saying, "Hey, we can handle it like this, and then we're really done. If you were to falslers with this, Mr. President, I'm sorry about the English coin, you might have been able to pop into the fjords that are built there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u62	Mr. President. I thank the senator for allowing himself to think so loud and dream. These are ideas I've heard. It would be the most comfortable and natural process of transportation if the ideas it describes were to be realized. If there's still something I've learned in recent years, it's that you need to be a little realistic. We've had a lot of bad luck getting a tunnel so far. You know the history of animal tunnels that were knocked out, put in, knocked out, put in, and had to have blood, sweat, and tears to get them in, but we finally see at their end of the tunnel in September. It will be a great festival day for us Westerners when there will finally be an opening between the north and the southern West. It is also a means of true transportation. I'm all about flying on those Ólafur, but the reality tells me that we should rather watch a shorter tunnel and hope they become reality, at least as long as you and I live. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u63	Mr. President. When I asked for the answer, I thought no one had taken a vow of silence, but the question I was about to raise has been partially answered. Nevertheless, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to agree with the question. Lára Lárus Jónsdóttir for this proposal to build a tunnel between Eelfjörður and Skull. In fact, I watch this so that in the years and decades we Icelanders have approximately two tunnels running each year, until we have built up a manpower and traffic security, we must do just as much, whether we talk about community unity or not, that we have to start talking more firmly and more priorities about a particular population and a regional core. We need to seal the rows on the north side of the West, and now, when we hopefully see in the fall that we open the Animal Strait, it is a sin that the Daringseed is not finished in the process. We need to think about this whole thing. At our meeting of restoration delegates, when we were in the west, this tunnel came up for discussion, to ensure traffic security, including traffic security. To Sussavík, place aerosol tunnel on the schedule, especially from traffic safety. I also press on to improve and strengthen the core of the northern West, especially in view of the fact that I see the operation going on there in the coming years. We see a number of functions that will be even more effective each year, such as. The eagle in Bolungarvík. We watch salmon fires and other factors that will, of course, strengthen the Vests, which requires that we take care of the infrastructure. It is the responsibility of the government and the role of our senators to offer such suggestions. I like that one, and I'm gonna back her up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u64	A respectable president. I appreciate Katrín's Þorgerður for the counter-authority. This is exactly what she mentions, the Western industry is getting stronger, looking at many opportunities in the workplace, and having good infrastructure is important. I didn't mention it in my history, but there are naturally a lot of ideas going on in the Sissavík to set up a parachip plant that's going to be quite extensive and with quite a lot of employees at work. This will increase the activity of the whole area, and we will also look at a lot of construction in salmon farms, so we need easy and safe transport. Since today's society and society are such factors, we need to move about safely. We have so many examples that when people pass through these slopes, they are reluctant to leave because these are not just bad weather during the summertime. The problem with the spray cord is that the stone crash is just as bad because we don't have a recommendation to measure it. The rock just collapses. We have avalanches that warn us of the danger, but some of the more difficult it is for us to be less prepared. It'll be the same on a rainy day in the fall and lasers in the spring. In the last few years, we have a pretty bad example of how people roll cars and get into the fun because they've driven on a living. I thank the senator for the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u65	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for the opportunity to recommend this case here today, a proposal to evangelize the Grinch tunnel between the peoples and the Eyjafjörður, a case that has been extensively discussed in recent years in the north. It's a pleasure to be able to stand here today and recommend this proposal, but she says: ▪ The General concludes to hide transport and local government administrators in starting research, prototype design and assessment of the practicality of the construction of a tunnel on the Grinch. A report by the secretary will be submitted to the General Assembly with results for the end of 2020. This synonym has a paper I'm going to quote, with the permission of a president: This proposal suggests that transport and rural government ministers will start research work, a prototype and an assessment of the practicality of the construction of a tunnel in the Grinch. There have been discussions of Grinch tunnels in recent years. In particular, there have been two developments, one from the Haffs Valley to the Bark Year Valley, and two tunnels that first descended from the Valley of Hörg, which is the Valley of Faith, from the Valley of Response, and from west to the Valley of Siros, in Skavegar. According to the 2017 Community Association in the Northern West, a summary of transport, the emphasis and priorities of the Northern West, there are some of the major challenges of transport practices in the Federal Republic of Germany and to be introduced into a study of the practicality of digging such tunnels. The publication further says: "There is no doubt that this tunnel would strengthen the part of the country. During the winter, the mountain around the Oxnad Valley can be a major vehicle. It hardly takes to list the advantages these tunnels would bring for the safe access of Western citizens to the Akureyri hospital. In addition to the shorting of the way through a mountain route, leaving Skaveirs to Akureyri. In this context, it should be noted that there is no birth service in the northern part of the West, and thus the competitive state of the region is the ideal homeroom for young people severely reduced. Nor does the influence of tourism in the northern western part of the West have to be a tenth in this regard, but with a planned international flight to Akureyri, the national part of the country is of great importance that the way between parts of the land is cut off and restored. The enlargement of the work area is also important, and the possibility of applying for various services would be greatly altered by the development of these tunnels. It is of utmost importance for the national part that the benefits of this approach will be examined, not only from economic efficiency as a result of reduced service needs, but also from social and economic impacts on the colonies in the Northern West as well as in the Eyjafjörður. In connection with the cohesive organization's beginning tegafur, a variety of data was collected from Lendis organization ehf, including Through the Grinch tunnel. The data shows that distances between urban areas in the North would be greatly reduced by the entrance of the tunnel. Thus, it would be a distance from Saturday's bank west to Akureyri 185 km if you went through Mount Þversár and a tunnel between Hjaltadal and Hörgárdal. The distance between Hóla and Akureyri would be made to travel about 60 miles [60 km], reaching some 130 miles [30 km]. A distance between the Sheep of the Year and the Akureyris would be reduced from about 90 miles to about 90 miles between the Coyos and the Akureyris from 145 miles to about 136 miles [36 km] and to 127 miles [ 127 km], along with road cutters. Thus, nearly all of the most populous settlements in the northern part of the Western world are people between Reykjavík and Akureyri. A distance between the Caddy of Sheep and Húsavík would be 167 miles [67 km] with the entrance of those tunnels and the Wallahus. If this route takes place, it does not have to cross the Oxnad Valley River, the road around it is at the highest altitude of 540 m. The main route was also to travel from a lakeside, where the road goes to about 400 feet [400 m] high and across Mount Terrain, at the highest point of 320 m. Two shorter tunnels, from the Valley of Horrg, to the Caddy Valley and from the Caddy Valley to the Columbia Valley, can also be considered, but they could give an even greater chance of shortening between the urban core and the mural of both sides of the Grinch with the role of enlargement of services and services. In February 2019, the Council of Akureyri and the Government adopted a challenge to the government to finance basic research and comparison of potential tunnels under the Grinch, as well as research into the social and economic effects of such efforts. The challenge of the rural society is as follows: This week's mission to the government to ensure a new transport program of basic research and a comparison of best available soils under the Grinch, as well as research on social and economic impacts resulting from new Grinchways. There will be no doubt to be significant benefits in the form of shorter distances between all the largest urban areas in the Northern region, increased safety of road users, where there would be a new cut - off route, enlargement of work areas, support of public services and tourism, as well as improved regional competitiveness. Such a tunnel would change so much in such large areas that it is difficult to foresee its effects without careful and professional observation. The local government of Akureyri and the rural administration of the Sanitation Society of Tamives strongly stresses the need for preparation and initial research for a new Grinch parade in a new transport program. As the moisture has been done, a tunnel under the Grinch would include a tremendous means of transportation to the population of Northern countries and to others passing through it. The safety of road users would be largely improved, as well as such projects would include: leads to an expansion of the workinvestment and the development of tourism in the area. Set transport agents to be committed to the development of research, prototype design and the assessment of the practicality of the construction of the Grinch. This work will be evaluated on the best route as well as on the cost of the project. Then there will be the social and economic effects of such hierarchy as well. It is suggested that the Minister submit a report to the General with results by the end of 2020. As I said before, I am very pleased to recommend this proposal. As shown in the report, there is a huge interest in the population in the north. We are able to get along with the Middle East and the entire northern part of the country, expand the work area, and achieve considerable cooperation and a complete conversation in the north. I sincerely hope that, while we make this effort, we will be fully aware that this is not happening next year or that the discussion is being handled, examined, and evaluated. If this project becomes evident, there is reasonable hope for it to be established by the government and that we will see it soon to take place in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u66	Mr. President. It is a joy to know that a proposal for the Grinch has arrived at the council. I'd like to ask about how we should integrate our conversation and expand it a little bit if it wasn't normal for the local authorities, both in the western and northern parts of the country, in the Eyll region - which I don't think should be called the Ethal now, that is, to find some name on this - the Eyjafjörður and the Parliament, with the Théodens and the Huns Countys, and the organization in these areas would take the matter materially for the greater context and go through the way in which people are going to solve problems with the Grinch and the travel that he is, as we know the last winter. This has been quite difficult and difficult. Doesn't this conversation have to be done? I wrote an article during a week in Akureyri, September, about the need for the EIW to shape its own transport policy for the quarter or the area below. It has never been done, other parts of the country have taken such policies, and it would be reasonable to examine them. Hv. A senator and his associate in the case are both platoon officials in the northwestern country. How can we achieve this conversation and deepen our territory in a larger context? I'm busy with the overall picture, which is also the Sports Vow to the River of Siglusar. I'm busy with Dalvik and Olafurd. I'm busy with the Valley of Hörgárur, up to the North Valley, or options under the Oxnadal Bridge, either four miles under the Backaksels Bridge, or the 10 km tunnel, longer the benefits. Since then, I've been an amateur in this tunnel for 15-520 years since my father - in - law worked at Hólar as a financier. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator would like to see if we could deepen our conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u67	I thank the senator for the answer. I agree with him completely in that, of course, we should try to look at the matter in the same context as possible and look at the bigger picture. I totally agree with him on that. It is true that during the discussion, the road model also has tunnels from the River to the Siglu fun, which are also tunnels through the Grinch. Other ways have been discussed. This, however, is the way the rural areas of the northern West have set up plans for the most important things and for which people put the most emphasis on and see the most practical management and practicality, to enter this tunnel. Similarly, the town council of Akureyri agreed with us that this was the biggest case. I totally agree with what. A senator in it and I believe it is important that the national body sit down and examine the overall picture. The agreement between national groups in the northern part of the West and the Eyjafjörður has not been much. The antiquated line is located right through the Oxnadal Beak, and it appears to be more of a vehicle than it should be. I also think in general that it is very important that the Northern Community is talking better, not just about this matter, but about a lot of things, because the interests are very great in the north. [[The president calls.]] I'll just agree with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u68	Mr. President. In many ways, I agree to say that the ideal ship is very difficult in the north and that the Grinch splits a little into two interests for the Northland. I think you're right. I admit that I'm a big nerd in transportation, they've always been a big hobby to me. Then, when you're on a budget committee, you start thinking, and you hear a lot of presentations and stuff. Now, the canal has been discussed in a winter report of 13.2 miles in length. Such a tunnel is estimated to cost 35 billion. If they left the Bark Valley and crossed the Hakf Valley, they'd be 20 miles. And then I can't remember the length if we move the Valley of Paradise or the Valley of Response to the Valley of Sir Francis from the Valley of Hörg. You're trying to figure out the overall context of things, but you're in the first. in the preceding case, an idea of a 200-mile tunnel occurred. Now I think it's been top-top, but it's always fun to think about these things. I'm very busy with this overall picture with capital and how it's used to maximise this and that. I think we have to get the main tunnel, but maybe first we'll need to consider the Dalavísavófjörður. The cloud tunnel is a very bad passage and its location, as we know it and how it has benefited us for 30 years. I'll be happy to have a conversation about these matters, and surely we will deepen the conversation on interest matters in the North, even though the Grinch and the goal line are between us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u69	I thank the senator for the second answer. The length of the tunnel is one of the things we are asking for to be viewed, i.e. Exactly which one should be. There have been a few discussions, from 16 miles to about 20, if I recall correctly, but the exact application and exact number have not yet arrived. That's what we're asking for. We've been discussing this in this area for years, and we've had a number of experts in the area that some say is very possible, others say it's impossible. What we're just calling out for is that we're going to be examined and we're going to find out if this is possible, what it costs, and whether the matter can be set on schedule. If the conclusion is that it's all too expensive or impossible in any way, it's just the result of the case, and then we need to start looking at other ways. But I am absolutely convinced that when people look at the bigger picture, both the social and economic effects, plus the massive security factor, they will come to the conclusion that this is a very rational process, which will result in large increases in the Northlands as one region. I am excited to see the results of this work that I really hope to get into action as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u70	A respectable president. I thank you for the milestone that my proposal has now been recommended by the prime minister. It was a great step to make this suggestion, and the next stage was that it would be recommended here. Now it goes to Congress and debate, and I hope it will work quickly and with a positive mind that what is set up in it is only early in life that there will be different options for them, how practical they are, effective, and costly. As we have seen, this is a vastly improved transport system for the Middle East, as well as the whole Northland, to link it together again. It is a big matter of interest that will be better connected and strengthened based on large areas of service, employment attendance, and community, as well as the need to keep our confidence in mountain roads that have proved to be quite difficult, as during the winter. It is still a reminder of the importance of having alternatives other than having the province closed off as has happened for days in the past few weeks and has created a crisis. Hopefully, further discussions between part of the country on the northern part of the Western and northern parts of the country are still ahead of us. This must continue, and it must be important that Akureyri City participate in recommending such an assignment. It is hardly to mention that at the time, there was a very powerful organization in northern Europe, the Northern Fourth Union, and then they really worked together and watched the interests of the Northland all. Then it is divided into two organizations, and perhaps there is more reason to look at how we can better connect the areas together. I also agree that it is important to have the overall picture, but don't lose the focus on what we're talking about here. There are likely to be other methods of transportation in the land. What a joy it would be if people took a big step in identifying the options here requested! Again, I want to express my joy with the degree that this case has been recommended and that it will receive the future professional treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u71	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a hearing of the General Assembly as a family-friendly workplace. I'm the 1st importer of the proposal, but my importers are aggile. Senator Ingi Pétursson, Hjálmar Hafliðason; Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsisdótttir; Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir; and Willum Þór Þórsson. This suggestion is not long, but it is very important that she does not give up. Thus, it would seem that the General Assembly would hide the President of the Generals to appoint a staff for the General as a family-friendly workplace. The staff will be appointed to one of the members of the Parliament. The Governing Body reviewed the General Assembly and proposed adjustments to the International Committee for Presidency no later than the end of 2020. The report requests that the work conditions of the elected representatives are at the General Assembly, which is the aim of the Parliamentary arrangement to look for ways to become a family - oriented workplace by the Council. To accomplish this, it is necessary to propose a change in the International Parliamentary Act so that there can be Congress on the means of all, regardless of gender, residence, and family circumstances. In 2009, the then president of the Generals, Ásta R. Jóhannesdóttir, appointed a body of members for the conference and meeting of the General Assembly. The role of the group was to contribute to the fact that the General Assembly would still be family life by reviewing the council's conference structure for this purpose, especially the meeting period, the committee meetings, assemblies, etc. In 2011, changes were made in the General Assembly, including over the length of a meeting, which was aimed at making family life possible. So there have been things that have been done. It's not that far since 2009, and things have changed, but it can be done better. If we look at the 21st floor. Refuse the equal status and equal rights of women and men, No. 10/2008, it states that employers should take the necessary steps to enable all to coordinate their duties and family responsibilities. These measures should be in accordance with the law to improve the flexibility of working and working hours so that both the family and the needs of the workers are taken into account. The law requires that companies and institutions with 25 or more employees set up an equal plan. The General has developed an ambitious equality plan according to the law on equal positions and the rights of women and men in which a special chapter is found on the coordination of family and professional life. The equal plan, however, applies only to members of the council but not to elected representatives. It may be reasoned that each body of elders is an independent body of work and that each member is an independent body of the workplace. The Parliamentary Parliament creates a framework for the work of members of Congress, and with changes in them it may be aimed at making the International Parliament a home - to - house work suitable for most people. There is no suggestion for extra vacation time to go to town or other places, not at all. It is suggested that the frame be checked, both meeting times, the design of meetings, etc. There is no part of the process of making an extra time. In other words, the composition of members of Congress reflects something that we are not exactly in the way of time. Today, there are younger ones who want to make more use of their time with their families. They want more organization in their time so that they can organize their family activities. I believe that by considering these matters, you can meet that group more and allow others to participate in the Senate, to allow themselves to be assigned to work at the General Assembly. On this basis, this proposal is based on the interpretation and I expect it to be made, following the fact that I'm giving it here, a discussion on the Presidency Committee, and hopefully there will be some further suggestions for improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The K.. Gylfadóttir daughter's role in the history of the story, and he also wants to thank her and her partners for bringing up this phenomenon, the General Assembly as the Workplace. Even if we all realize that the Council is an unusual workplace, and as the senator entered a very diverse field, even by members of Congress, he is still a workplace where ordinary people work as family members and even interests outside the council. I think it is important that we discuss this at any given time, although only in order for the council to develop and develop to some extent with the community, as the senator arrived. I have no dream solution, but I think that the way the Senator suggests could be brilliant. One thing I want the senator to do is the planning and limitation of the discussion period. There you often feel that even time is wasted, there at least. Often there is a time in a discussion that could be much more specific than it really is. Is it among those things that the senator envisions with these changes to try to control, or is the senator merely thinking of the meeting?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u73	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I'm glad he came in on this. It's been at the councils around us, at least. There is an example, certain members of a assembly of members of certain lawsuits. This could result in a lack of knowledge of how long the discussion will be delayed and so forth so that there will be more organization around a particular subject. Each group agreed on the arrangement, had a specific time, and could decide who will promote the views of the party. I mentioned that each body of members may be an independent workplace, even a member of Congress, and when the situation has become as it is today that there are eight different members of Congress, large groups of members can divide the stress of long conferences between members, while smaller members of Congress have more difficulty being on the watch, listening, and watching what is going on. Undeniably, the number of things that people would like to observe can go unnoticed. It can be difficult and therefore exhausting. Several factors have been mentioned, e.g. Certain members of a body of members, dosed time, and if it is considered, there is something that can be negotiated according to the general rule. It's, for example. that which is being considered in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u74	Mr. President. As the senator came in, it is so that even if we put some other limitations or limitations in the length of discussions, we know why. A case in which it is difficult to apply is met by members of the council. The Senator, however, knows as I do that in rural governments, it is often more successful to limit the length of discussions and discussions are often far more efficient than here, even in matters of enormous interest, especially in the largest rural communities. Yet, it seems that it is possible to shorten a discussion and make it more specific. So in the second instance, I would like to encourage the senator to get his members to be members of the Senate and other council members who may be on the proposal to press a little after-this matter on the Presidency Committee. Even if such proposals fail to succeed or fail to be completed, the discussion alone is taking care of this vital aspect of the Senate work, being absolutely of great importance to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u75	Mr. President. Thank you for the urgency of the senator. I believe the proposal has arrived on the agenda and that this discussion will take place here. When the proposal was handed out, a discussion in the media that people seized began, saying: Yes, more vacation and more cocktail invitations, which is absolutely not a very family - life operation and which is not being spoken of here. [[Up front.]] Speak individually, each one has his own time options. But it gets better by getting a more diverse group into a group of people of all ages, with different family conditions, that I don't talk about as a people's interests and can care for them as well. In fact, we're not here discussing it. Rather, we're planning the council and how we can get a better producer, a better impression on the senator, that each of us can do the work better. Thanks for the urgency. I hope the discussion goes on and on and on and on and on. There have been things that have happened, the council has taken a step, but we must not stop and say that we are in a good place because society is changing and we must take the step.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u76	V.E.G. President. I think it's true that last time we talked about family-friendly workplaces here, Pétur late Blöndal had a uncontrolled laugh in the middle of the night. I've had my laugh, for the rest of my life I think, so I'm not sure I'll get it now. I wondered what is meant by the family - related workplace. To me, this house isn't the workplace. The workplace is the district, or country, all of it. That's my job. I don't view Congress as a job in a natural sense. We're just part of the legislature. So I do not agree to discuss this as if I were dealing with other traditional jobs and jobs. It says that the proposal is presented because there is a need for a change in the terms of the General Assembly to allow Congress to be open to all, regardless of gender, habitats, and family conditions. There is no job, so it is not for anyone, either for Congress or for other jobs. It's not everyone's job to do shift work. The situation in others may not be suitable for day - to - day work. This can be in many ways. I think it's absolutely impossible to do this job in a special family life for members of this place, according to the nature of the case. Yet, there is no shortage of candidates and fewer people than will. I don't fully understand this discussion, especially because this job, in case of a job, is in a way that you can control your time very well, unlike any other person working in this community. I know that there are few jobs where people are not put to the test, since there are no places in the workplace where you sometimes have to stay. It is far more difficult for people to control than it is us. We can share our work with us when it is convenient. We do not have to be in the Senate Hall discussing matters that we are not going to discuss. And if our circumstances are in such a way that we are going to speak, but this is difficult for someone to do so, then it may be possible for someone to run. I think this proposal applies more to all other jobs in the country than to ours. I agree that this is all about equality. The work isn't like that. It is clear, however, that if people are going to seek reelection, they have to work hard. They can say that we are not married to families, but it is only a requirement for those who care for us to put forth a little effort, and that's an excellent catch. I have thought that we are more and less ◯ ever at work in one way or another. But the place isn't here, it's just the land and the ticket. I think this conversation is kind of smiling, but it's not that - and then the key is - that we can't plan the job better in the council room. It is, of course, possible, but it is very difficult without changing the rules of the assembly speech. We listen to members of the council, repeat after each other, nothing new during the discussion, and the discussion is up till night. But we ourselves are to blame, our own council. We need to keep this under control. Of course, each senator is independent of it and we do not take away his rights, but this is the problem we are dealing with, which we ourselves are to blame for, that some discussions at the council are far too long. It is filled with members of Congress who address virtually all matters, especially those they have no knowledge of. They have many hours of talks and are allowed to use the media as speakers. Some think it's the most accomplished members of the council. To me, it's those senators who do no good at all. This will be the case, and somehow it will be shaped by us that it is a terrible non - family business, and everything here is impossible. I have never done so much family service in my life, in all my career, since I started working as a summer boy. That's why I find it very strange. This work is not suitable for anyone, as it were, but it will not be changed unless we change it ourselves by shortening the speech period and having some control over our own council. It's as simple as that. Instead of making a synonym of this sort, I think we should start talking about it within the council and try to negotiate some agreement on a reasonable change in the state of Congress, so that men aren't purring here whole and half the days for nothing. I sat in the President's chair night after night listening to a pack of three energy. I did not speak to him myself, but I listened to a discussion about him. During the Norwegian Parliament, he was finished in a few hours while we were doing well in another hundred hours. Being president of the Parliament under such circumstances was not family - but it was an aberration. These are exceptions. I didn't regret sitting in the President's chair under those circumstances. I learned a lot. Listening teaches you a lot, and you have to listen, and you can't help it. I'm not interested in this kind of suggestion. This has nothing to do with a carrier. I like him very much. I think we're completely lost. It's just a discussion into the air in my mind. This is in harmony with many other things in society; everyone feels so busy, everyone is so tired, all cold, and down. Still, I don't think that men have ever won so little in Iceland. Of course, this is just an attitude, and some say today. I'm not quite in the modern world, and maybe I've never been there properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u77	Mr. President. I enjoyed listening to what I heard. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son bring in another member of this discussion. It may be just what we needed, and it may be great if this will result in a discussion of certain events in the seminaries. Maybe we don't have to do much, I don't know. Perhaps it is the generation that accepts releases and needs frames that some have built in. There is also a small difference between the size of the body of the member. There's a big difference between the eight parties now at the council. The discussion is for the very first time, and the senator came in a bit that the debate in the seminaries can produce a more reasonable change in the council. I'm not going to ask the senator. It's good to have another member of the debate. No matter what definition of the workplace or not, people here are working for the community on pay, and of course it's the whole country and the ideal thing that our employers do. My job isn't just in this house. It is also good to have the box so that people can do the work here and there and throughout all the tripes and meet their voters, renew the authority, talk to them, and find the work that needs to be done, and see what people have on them. That's what I wanted to talk to the senator about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u78	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator came in on the size of a council. I know some members of Congress are far too small. That is why I proposed legal alliances with them. It tells itself that it is very difficult to be in everything and to participate in everything in any body of two and three members, even four men. There is another organization that is the problem there. That's exactly what you're talking about. A senator that it is important for members of Congress to be able to meet with voters for all fights, but it creates a big problem in Icelandic society that allows them to do so because of the cost. Not everyone may see the importance of working for someone, meeting people, and listening. Some senators view it as a form of corruption or incompetentity, that you cannot participate in such a conversation with voters because you may get a cup of coffee on the way. The talk in Icelandic society is knowing that it will always be harder, no matter what we do, to meet voters. Men always view the work negatively and undermine the respect of the Generals at the same time as they think they are some watchmen for their respect. We are on a dangerous course, and the media are not trying to explain what this job is, how important it is, and how important it is that we meet people everywhere, that we listen and do our best. This is incredibly important, but it's undermined every day in my mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u79	Mr. President. That's why I think the discussion here and now is just fine. [[Up front.]] You see, there are so many things that are not always in the discussion. Visiting a council and seeing how it actually works is very valuable. In his speech, the senator came to see whether this can be a family service for the local council. As a member of the country, I ask: " How can this be a family service for the people of the capital? It's a privilege that I don't have to stay home, put on a machine, and drive with the kids and other things. I'm here when I'm working here, but there's a lot of things I can do for people who have to do all the day's work along the way of being a senator, having a conversation with voters. In this controversy proposal, it is not a revolution. Rather, it is to have this conversation, see what we can do to improve. It has been observed that the members of the Parliament have been unable to move on in various discussions, and at times, it is normal because of the nature of the discussion. A senator might also ask: Is it desirable to spend most of the time in a pita and have as many minutes as possible? That's what I was wondering.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u80	V.E.G. President. I find it very pleasant to listen to myself, but I still can't get the toes where some people have the heels in this council hall. It is true that the circumstances of members of Congress vary. Senators in the larger national districts, who live far from this assembly here, do not live in traditional family life, such as those in Reykjavík. You're absolutely right, but we can't help it. This is true of many other jobs. What really bothers me about a matter of Congress is that it's been so negative in society and we haven't had enough courage to answer for ourselves, we're always defensive somehow. Last of all, they were talking about what each senator would get. Inside, there's a hotel cost on trips I didn't want to go. That makes it look like my income, and the flight is my income, and it costs me 17 million. It's what the media do for themselves. How can we increase the respect of the Generals when the media debate is like that? What is really not family married in this work is what the members of Congress have to endure. That's all I feel sorry for in this case, not for me, but for my family, even though she doesn't complain.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The armor of Níelsson's son for his speech. I can't say that I agree completely with everything the Senator said. But in itself it's not what you really want in all our speeches, to agree on everything. [[Up front.]] One thing that the senator introduced that I think is absolutely right with him is that the senator's work is not just within the council's walls. Many would argue that as important a part of the work, it is a relationship with the voters as an opportunity to make that relationship. Then we came to just how close this relationship was to the proposal. If we leave our work here, so that the part of the work that takes place here will be completed at a reasonable time, it will be easier for us to plan with our voters. It is easier for us to hold a meeting and to get into this relationship that I agree with the senator that is very desirable, this opportunity to fulfill the part of the work that is not in the pontta Allolis or in the committee field, a man's relationship with a man so precious. Is it not true that with a better organization in this house, in fact, he made it possible to do, and to say that we did so, we would be able to increase the respect of the council and to add to this aspect of the Senate work that we clearly agree to be important?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u82	V.E.G. President. We usually finish at a reasonable time in this room. We're here a little over six months. I don't think that's the big deal. Although there are often evening meetings and even the night at certain times, there are few members of that discussion but only a few. I figure they're counting on one hand. If I wasn't on the President's chair, I'd be here maybe two, three nights a semester. There's no more, and that's less than I had my previous jobs. I can state that there might be a way to plan more closely and better work in this room so that people would be able to get home at four or 4:30, like most people, but it will be done only to take certain privileges from members of the council. So far, that's not a solid agreement, and it's been very unpopular. As long as we don't get caught doing this job the way it is and I think it's very convenient in many ways, especially for people with families, because it's more flexible than if I was a government official and was stuck there. I just think it's pretty good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u83	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. You're right. A senator enters, at least I have noticed that in many things, the senator is somewhat conservative and may not always exist in the most dramatic changes in the arrangement of things. It's all right. Not all of us need to be as bad as it would be if we were like that. Yet, it is that by organizing ourselves here, as the senator has repeatedly entered, we make room. Even the most conservative institutions develop, even the National Church, which can be said to be a rather conservative institution that develops progressively. I'm not saying that the World Council as a work force, if we can call the General of the Workplace, we may not develop gradually, but we don't have to know that it doesn't have to happen at the speed of the snail. This must be thought - provoking. It has to be an agreement, and I agree with the senator that no pressure must be taken on the rights of members of Congress to promote their views. I'll always stand with the senator in that stand-by. As the senator himself agreed, more could be done to ensure that members of Congress over lengthy discussions, that members of Congress would be better prepared for some matters so that the discussion could be more useful, nuclear - angled, and more effective.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u84	V.E.G. President. To me, conservativeness is virtue, and changes are to take place slowly. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I don't like revolutions. They've never been good. Changes are to be made in a well - thought - out manner. To me, the church isn't conservative enough, but there's another debate. Of course, the discussion is beneficial. I can't help it if people think I'm a bitch, but the character is that way, even if I'm not going to be. It looks like this too, but it's an uncontrollable thing. The discussion is beneficial, and I agree with it. paritaprevir The Ólafur majority of Þór Gunnarsson's son that we need to have more discipline in our jobs, to be organized, and then, of course, it becomes much more selective than if each calls out something in its own corner, and even many people have to talk about the same thing within the same class. We can improve. We have had many discussions with members of the council and with members of the Parliament, planning more carefully. Then there'll always be some heat, and it'll be so important, and it's all behind, and it's all going to be the same shit as before. We can't really scold anybody but ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u85	Mr. President. We can see from these discussions that the Council is close to us. Clearly, all of us here are interested in the welfare of the Generals and that it works well. Therefore, the discussion is needed. It is worst that there are very few members in the Assembly Hall, a large number of members of Congress would need to be with us and listen to us. It's also good that we all speak here with knowledge because we're members of the Parliament and know the work. I've been working a lot of jobs for a lifetime, and I'd like to say that being a member is what swallowed me most, simply because the work is about you being here almost all the time and if you're not here, you're in your house or somewhere on a journey and you're working on one and another that needs to be met. I've attended several assemblies, so I have some guidelines. I took this place together, I think it was in the middle of the month, a month that wasn't traveling abroad. It's not too much math, but I think I was nearly 260 hours that month, and I don't even remember what month it was, but 250 or 260 hours were. You can see it's 120% job or whatever it may be. It's not a complaint, it's just a fact. I am happy with my work, and I can't think of complaining about the pressure. The work is swinging, and we are sometimes told that it is a long time off. It's Christmas break, Easter break, and then there's a summer break. The fact is, though, that we are usually quite a part of the process. Besides, there are different types of work, some of which are suitable for crusting, and others do not, and individual circumstances vary. It has been observed here that some have large families, others smaller, some are single, and some are retired, and a god knows what. We are as different from all of this as there are many of us. Then to the real work load we can call it. There are a number of committees, both major professional committees and smaller ones, except for groups set up, we need to go up to this or to the other Ministry, work on policy issues, or even help with the development of a law degree and so on. I'm on four committees, two major constant committees, one international committee outside the Foreign Affairs Committee, and then one national committee making it more or less a meeting for me every day of the week. Then come the meetings we're asked to pick up. There is a annual meeting here, a conference there, a seminar, an education meeting at the International Institute of the University of Iceland, the Secret Bank or National Protection, i.e. School in a town, as we can say. Then there is the district itself. There are meetings, conferences, and other things, and then we have to visit people. We need to see the mayor in my case because I'm an out-of-town senator, etc. Then the question is how much pressure this is for a member of the Medium Congress. In the small councils, this pressures are even more, with large members of the council a little less, so all of this needs to be kept in mind. On top of all of this, men who are conscientious members of Congress, and that is all of us, to study data, to read legal bills, articles, reports, plagion proposals, etc., we need to prepare for queries and talks. How many mercenaries would there be in the council? They're over 1,000, i.e. billworks, plagion proposals, reports requests, queries, etc. A lot of these numbers tell us something. Then we'll find out what you can do. It's about the planning of the Parliaments that touch the council, and I'm not about to go around the press or make any plans, but, of course, it has to go over them, and it's being done right now. Then, as individuals and members of the council, we have the work load for ourselves. That is what I could say very much, but I will not extend this talk to you. I'm going to take it as a dog. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son spoke and gave a short talk, giving me a basic reason why I asked for the word. It is simply this: The number of members of Congress must be increased by at least ten. Why do I say that? Everybody knows counsellors don't like to sit in a Senate hall and be working. They're elsewhere, except for their urgent business here. All this information I just listed, the committee and all, is now well over 50 members of the council. That's even. Because of the way the modern community is becoming, there has to be a waste disposal law, and there must be laws on this and that. The number of cases continues to increase. We have the EEA deal that's been pleased with, including me, which means we have to take a number of types that need to go through the Assembly Hall. All of this is now, making it possible for a member of Congress who was once determined to be OK, 63, to do so no longer. I'm not going to get into the way this is done, but there have been some ideas. I'm not going in on it, but I simply believe it's time. Of course, cost is there, the council hall here is probably too small, but not to face this and not to try to increase the number of heads and hands that do the Senate work for distant stewards, I think it would be to stick my head in the sand if the people didn't really discuss it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u86	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Ari A Trausti for a clear and simple way of handling the nature of Congress. During the discussion, one sees that everything else is being held out, and it's only been bothering me for a long time because the media that is supposed to be revealing even under false news - isn't that the latest? - about the nature of this job. It is regularly claimed that there are men in this room six months on vacation. I will personally sit on three committees if I consider a prime committee that makes significant provision here beyond any other member of the council. Then there is the International Committee, and there are quite some trips to these so - called tribunals around the committee work. I think it's very important for the public to know more about what the job is. I have not thought about raising members of Congress, but it is of interest because the debate has been more likely to reduce the number of members than to increase the number of members, and I ask: A senator might be more likely to have some kind of assistance with any senator who could do this better than increase the number of them? I don't have a feeling that patience for such a suggestion would be a big thing in the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u87	Thank you. A senator resists. There are so many things that are unsettled in a certain way. I think, for example. that in many places there is little patience for the international work of the International Assembly. This too is minimized and even made to appear to be some form of entertainment paid for. People also believe that members of Congress are paid for committee work in particular and a number of things. It hurts when there's such a misunderstanding. About a question why. The senator may consider how to do this without increasing the number of members of Congress to do both, increase them by five, and add additional helpers. There's a big difference, when it comes to doing this, I think that assistants can certainly reduce the pressure on members of Congress. It's a process that's already begun, two men, three members of each body of Congress. In other lands, you can see that there may be between five and ten assistants for one major body member with an entire office. I'm not talking about anything like that. I'm not trapped in the ten. It may be possible to do both. But when it comes to the presentation - a senator has to prepare talks, participate in all the written meetings, and the assistants can't do it - I still think those over 50 are still too few, but I wish I myself had one of them. It would mean a lot to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Ásgerður of K. Gylfadóttir is a great deal for contributing this case because when members of the Parliament speak of such activities in some way, it is very short to the extreme publicity and misinformation, to the point of a direct lie. I'm just going to go over it later, but first I want to know that this case and ideas about family-friendly Generals aren't about the interests of members of Congress, it's not about compassion about the suffering of the senators, how they're uncomfortable or how little time they're having with their families, but about the public access to the legislation of the legislation and the ability of the senators to do their jobs. That's what it's all about in my mind, and that's why it's going straight into the equality business. Senators are not any other species than the voters. It is the same species, actually the same nation, the same address that is needed to vote and volunteer. As much as anyone can volunteer, with very few limits, and most of us are citizens here. All kinds of public citizens have volunteered and made their way to the council. I think most of us were surprised the first time we got into the council. I'll be at least To say that I was very surprised, I was surprised that a person in my situation might be disturbed. A senator at the time, perhaps presenting me for a strange class that did not have a good impression at the time. In fact, it was impressive then, but less than we have been blessed to get used to since then. Because the 63 elected members of Congress are not supposed to have some kind of cross-section by the nation, they do not have such limitations that entire members of the community are directly forbidden to work here according to their best ability, just because the Council itself requires having as a family environment as possible because it worked so well in 1950. The general assembly developed and the arrangement here developed over a period of decades, starting with ◯ I'm just going to say that - middle - aged men with grown up or no children and women at home, men who wanted to be least at home. Although society is improving and changing, it may be that women are in Congress - and they were almost half of the council, unfortunately not quite there - following an arrangement that suggests that there are individuals who do not have family obligations, whether they are men, women, or other sexes. Today, it is proper for men to share in child rearing and other care at home. Women also need to do so, even more so, as we know each other. This part of your life doesn't die when you become a senator. It's still there, and if we're going to live at the General Assembly, where there's equality for men, women, and people of other sex, this council has to be family life - culminating in 1950. It tells itself, and it's about the matter, Mr. Honorable President, that a single woman in the country can offer herself, that the message from here is not them, as sometimes presented in some worse speeches. Councilmen, that you should know only in advance. You're supposed to know when you're volunteering to take all your time. It is this: If you are a single woman in a land or a single woman anywhere or a single male, or whatever, with a child, do not volunteer. And that message, a respectable president, is totally unacceptable to me. They're completely unacceptable. Perhaps it takes much change to make it possible for us to be a single parent and a senator to do our job with all our power. Maybe it's a very long time, but we shouldn't pretend it's all right just as it is. It can become a family life, although it will never be a perfect family. This will always be difficult and time - consuming. That in itself is probably to a significant degree, but we should try to change the working method to a time when the time is basically changing society, see when it comes to the equality of sex and the role of people in their private lives, which was once largely based on sex but hopefully, and fortunately, no longer. I think that most senators who are very ambitious for their work can quite conduct long speeches here and list a long list of things that are not expected anywhere in any calendar. As a result, I have a rather high level of preparation for committee work and, in reality, plan to read every expression of enthralledness and care of every subject on the committees to which we are working. That's a lot of work, and it takes a lot of time. It's not hard work, it's not hard work, but it takes time that is not expected. I'm not complaining. I don't complain that I don't read reviews or that I don't read them. I don't complain about the time that goes into it. I'm just saying, even though I'm a senator, my species, the species of Congress, is still just 24 hours in the day. My species also need to sleep and eat, and she also has children. That's a choice. We can keep it as it is, we can pretend it's all good. Then the work of members of Congress is affected. Is that what the public wants? I don't think so. I think in general the view is that there should be a decrease in members of Congress, a decrease in their wages, and a more difficult way to build on the whole misunderstanding that Congress is some slacky job - something it can be. If a senator is ambitious and is not willing to do anything, a senator can do so, especially if he is in a group of 16◯21 members of the council. Then it's probably very easy, but I don't know, I've never been in that position. The largest group I've ever been in is six people, and I'm today's Congress party of Pirata. I've never been in a company that's in control or I've been in charge. It is quite possible to be such a senator, in a political section, a large body of Congress, fully distributed tasks or things, doing whatever is right, perhaps one in the whole process, perhaps some more as vice president or director of committees, something like that. It's no problem, but I thought we wanted to make it easier for them to do more. I thought the complaint from the public was that we didn't do enough. If that is the case, it says itself that members of Congress need more time, more tools, and better circumstances to carry out their work faithfully and with the full strength they should be able to do. It's an incredible lack of respect for the people's time at the council, and it's always been, in my opinion, a long time because they were offered at the time, but in my opinion it just isn't. It's not about pity for members of the council or about our problems. It's about us being able to do our job and not being excluded for e.g. Parents or other responsibilities may be involved in our personal life. Now I'm going to the last minute, where I don't have much time, to go over just one of the worst newspapers I've ever read in my life. I kind of have to show her the camera. Here's a picture of what's going on. 1st concierge of this proposal, and the headline is, by permission of the President: The Senators are crying about cocktails, and they want more vacations. This is one of the most expensive nonsense I've ever read about the council in my life. Actually, it's a feature called Sandkorn that appeared in DV last year, so it's a lie that these proposals mean that you need more cocktails or more vacations. A respectable president. Congress isn't working when we're on the so-called vacation, i.e. In summer or Christmas. Thus, the work load of senators in the summers cannot be distributed because this is not the time for the Senate to work. The work load is when the council is working, and I'm not complaining about it, I'm just saying, it's only 24 hours a day. There are more responsibilities in the life of a senator than there are in this work, no matter how different it will be from other jobs. This horrible press is a little taken by me by the fact that I think senators have to be more diligent, and the media, to describe how the Congress work really is, not because members of Congress are so uncomfortable, but because it is important that people know how the legislation works. It is important that people are concerned with other concerns than with the fact that delegates are in cocktail parties when they are not. It is important that they are preoccupied with the fact that senators are not doing their job because there are three young men here. Senators in the hall when it's not a problem. It's not here we write bills, it's not here we speak on the phone or we're in town meetings. It is only natural that few are in the Assembly Hall. Why don't we just say it? Why don't the media just say it? Yes, because there is little consciousness because there is a certain tendency to try to make everything about the welfare and interests of members of Congress. That's not what it's about. This is the Republic's legislature. It's about her. [[The president calls.]] This is about the public's access, the citizen, to volunteer in this synagogue, to speak out, and to do good despite possibly even being a single parent.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u89	A respectable president. The bill was submitted to a 149th legislature but was not granted and is now submitted. My importers are down. Councilmen of the Left move ▪ Green Pronunciation; Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Orri Jóhannsson, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and Árnadóttir Enjörn. This points to adjustments to the 180th chapter. and 233rd par. a general penal law, no. 19/1940. It is suggested that discrimination between persons on the basis of gender expression or gender characteristics of employment and services, as well as gender and gender characteristics, be added to a list of 233. a involved in a non-saturable expression to the groups listed there. The purpose of the law is to provide the inexpensive community protection against hatred speech and crime. The definition of intersex is that a person is born with atypical biological characteristics. There are physical differences in chromosome, genetic presentation, hormone function, genitals such as testes, penis, female vagina, clitorus and ovary. Disturbances usually occur in the external or visceral genitals. Congenital sexual characteristics appear to be both male and female, not entirely male or female, or neither male or female. Intersex may also be observed on inborn physical differences in external sexual traits, e.g. muscle mass, body hair distribution, breast growth and body height. For 65th. The Treaty of the Republic of Iceland says that everyone is equal to the law and enjoys human rights regardless of sex, religion, opinion, ethnic background, race, color, economic, tribal status, and otherwise. Further implementations on the 90th rule or on the prohibitions of discrimination are also found in Icelandic law and regulations. In 1 1. Government law is recommended that the government be legally insurmountable and in accordance with the government. Discriminations are not permitted on the basis of gender, race, color, nationality, religion, political opinion, social status, patriotism, or other similar reasons. There are also laws on prohibitions against discrimination, such as the 2nd. 1st par. patient rights and 3 mg. 24th par. law of elementary school. Then the law on equal status and the equal right of women and men to discrimination on the basis of sex. The fundamental principle of equality is also implemented in many international agreements made by Iceland. In common ecstatic terms, there is always a reference to an otherwise indiscriminate position, to a·gaʹ or to a comparable reason to be followed by a list of discriminatory reasons for judging. Thus, the rules may apply to any degree of discrimination, but their values may be limited to certain legal fields. Codes associated with bans on discrimination and equality are also found in the general law of justice, i.e. 180. g. and 233rd par. a. In 1st. 180. g. it is recommended that jobs or services be punished to deny goods or services to others on the basis of their nationality, color, race, religion, sexual orientation, or gender. At the same time, 2nd. the same articles that it is punishable to refuse access to others to public meetings or other places that are open to the public. According to 233 st. a is punished openly by ridicule, slanderers, taunt or threaten a person or group of people with comments or expressions such as pictures or symbols, because of ethnicity, color, race, religion, sexual orientation, or gender, or spread them. In 1st. 73st. The Constitution says that everyone is free to believe and conviction. Two. it is revealed that every man has the right to express his thoughts, but he will be accountable to them in judgment. In that case, 3 mg. that freedom of expression can be restricted only by law and be so restricted in the interests of the Universal Order or State's security, in order to protect human health or morality or by the rights or reputations of others, as these are considered necessary and compatible with democratic traditions. A law on the protection of freedom of expression is also found in Article 10. European Convention of Human Rights. The change as the bill involves the list of groups to be protected according to 233 st. a general penal law is compatible with 73. g. The constitution as well as Article 10. The Convention concluded is the bill designed to promote the increased rightfulness of the Intersex people so that they can, on the same basis, enjoy the rights that include the rights of others. is guaranteed for 73 st. and 65th The Constitution, plus 14. European Convention of Human Rights. When changes in general penal law were made in 2014, changes were made to the subjects proposed for today's changes. Thus, it became punishable on a 1st. 180. g. to differ from persons on the basis of gender awareness of employment and services, as well as gender awareness added to a list of 233.g. a involved in a non-saturable expression to the groups listed there. It is necessary to re-change these articles based on the status of the Intersex people, but the Intersex does not refer to gender polymorphism, but is the term for the congenital variability of gender characteristics. If the bill is approved, the Intersex public is given increased protection, which includes a clear declaration that they are protected by others who need special protection, including the U.S. against hatred speech and crime. A respectable president. This bill includes the recognition of society's diversity of governments. The first step in a human rights struggle is to face the fact that we are not all alike. The fact is, there are many kinds of Icelandic society, and it is our responsibility to recognize it and do everything in our power to ensure the human rights of all society's citizens. Although neither public nor very visible, this does not mean that this group should not have full rights in Icelandic society. I'm sorry, Mr. Intersex is a subject of prejudice, and today there is a gross violation of human rights in this group of people. I welcome the law on sexual autonomy that was approved last June. There were huge extenuating benefits, but the affairs of the Intersex people were sent to a committee and are now in the Ministry of Presidency. I challenge the Senate to welcome the findings of the Committee and hope that the matter will soon be treated at a council when the committee is due in spring. Finally, I suggest that this case be referred to why. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u90	Thank you. A senator for bringing in this bill. This is a good change and a widening of rights. I'd like to consider whether this would lead to an investigation of the system that is based on a general penal law. Then I'm talking about the police and the justice system. Last year a transmission of a woman, I remember in the City of the Year, and then a debate arose around him that spread violence to people or people who are victims of sexual violence because of their sexual orientation, which is already protected in the law, simply doesn't have the courage to press charges because it is not certain that they will be listened. Besides being a perimeter, it's historic that he's been subjected to police violence, so the police may not be the person they want to go to file charges if they did. Sexual orientation and sexual awareness are already in the law, but I have not seen that the systems that are supposed to protect these rights under public law, especially in these articles, the police and the justice system, are welcome to these individuals. My question will be to see if anything will change if it's approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree with her that we need to examine this system, especially with the penalties in mind. If I understand it correctly, I agree that it is imperative that we engage in some kind of need analysis, where we look at these perimeter groups and how the justice system responds to them and how they use it. I think it's an overwhelming suggestion, and I suggest that we consider together, even to make a pact proposal that such a medical diagnosis will be made and that the matter be carefully examined. It is important that these perimeter groups trust the providers they consult, as well as that these issues become available into the legal system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u92	I'm glad to hear it. A senator makes such a good point. I certainly hope that someday we can make a suggestion that this will be done in more detail. Nor do we have statistics on these matters, since this is not often reported or dismissed. I think it's very important that these things be fully checked so that the system is for the population that needs what they need most.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-30-55.u93	A respectable president. Once again, I thank the senator for the counter, only looking forward to the work we can do together to explore this system because it is really an important penance for an overexcited important group that we must take care of.
