ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u1	There's a letter from the Central Party Vice President to the 3rd. That's the north side. "Sigmur Davíð the Gunnlaugsson of Gunuga, and 6th. We're out of here. "Grans Bragi Sveinsson, be absent in the near future. Today, therefore, members of the General Assembly, who were the first defenders of the Central Party list in the two polls, the Þorgrimur Sigmundsson, and Una María Óskarsdóttir. They have previously taken their seats at the General Assembly and are welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u2	As per 1 mgr, the chairman of the Council has received a talk from the Council of the Left Motion of the Young Man. Section 16. Congress, so Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson takes the seat of the Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir as his assistant in the Northern Council. This change will be considered without vote if no protests are made.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u3	By letter, by day. March 2, 2020, the president has requested this, as per number 8 of 1st. 13th par. Congress, on the Board of Directors and Control Committee, that it deals with a report by the State Reconnaissance on the Marshal's Office.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u4	A letter from the following advisers has been sent to provide written answers to queries: I'm a financial and economic secretary for the inquiries of the deck. 926, on the construction and operating expenses of the Höppe, Bergþór Ólason, and on the threshing floor. 650 on the increased commitment of the Penitentiary of the State's Penitentiary for the pension of Iceland's President, Minister, General and Supreme Court Court, from Ólafur Ísleifsson. From Minister of Justice for wish to inquire. 943, for public defence and security policy, for the Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, and for the threshing floor. 901, the processing and sharing of information on debt resources from Ólafur Ísleifsson. From the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a question on the deck. 584, search for submarines, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson; on a deck. 113, on the commitment of the Icelandic state to properly introduce EU types, to have a priority in Icelandic dishes, and on panels. 124, of the Ministry's comments on legal opinions, from Ólafur Ísleifsson. Finally, it is a letter from the health secretary for the petition. 941, on the transfer to Land Hospital, from Bronosi Haraldsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u5	The president would like to inform us that when the unsubstantiated inquiry ends, and a new meeting will be arranged for a bill from a health committee, each president's distribution, to be read earlier, and must be considered for votes on variations and thereafter found.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u6	To answer, Prime Minister, financial and economic minister, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, Environment and Resource Ministers, Foreign and Development Ministers and Justice Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u7	Mr. President. I come up here, first of all, to declare a tremendous support to the government for public defences in the country and how they've handled our response to the Covid-19 virus. I'd like to commend the public defense, the pathologist, the surgeon, the police services, and others who have been sharing information. I'd also like to commend the government, don't say this rarely, but I'd like to do that too, including No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister of Justice for failing to act rashly and added when called for more human resources. I must also point out that the approach of health - care ministers to the subject is solid. That's what matters. It's important that we don't use this opportunity to put ourselves in the position of control/control. At such times, I feel that it is important for us to be united, and I am convinced that we will be more effective when we talk and listen to one another. And listening, the thing that really matters to us is to listen and follow the advice of most experts. Am I saying, "No, we're not supposed to display fear? Naturally, fear is in the community. When I talk to a friend who has an underlying problem with his immune system, older citizens who are hurt, it's a natural fear, and you have to answer that fear, and it's done. I'd like to give special commendation to public defences in this regard. We're running out of time. I was going to bring two questions to the prime minister, but I see I only have time for one question. National Security Council met today. Did something come to mind at a meeting that the prime minister believes is proper for public communication? I just want to give one tip and get a reaction to it. I think the National Security Council is missing from the leaders of the medical department and firemen. [[The president calls.]] They're the first people on the scene, and I've felt that there's a certain insecurity about not being at the table when it comes to the National Security Council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u8	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for her encouragement, it matters. I agree with what. A senator, I believe that both health authorities and public officials at the state police office, apart from other householders, have done a very good job in difficult situations in clarityd distribution of information during very uncertain times. We see that the day - to - day standard changes for our neighbors, so it is a challenge to communicate information to the public when we are actually in such a very uncertain state. Of course, we have met with the North countries, as well as with those countries that we share with the outside European border in order for measures to be coordinated. A management team of the Ministry Department of Every Advisor has been appointed to this, of course, the whole society, whether we are talking about health institutions or schools, transportation, and flights for a number of examples. That's how we're trying to ensure that we're in the best coordination of control systems. In addition, I would like to mention that the State Department regularly reviews the actions of other countries due to the virus. The National Security Council convened this morning at their second meeting on the issue, because that's why. A senator specifically asks about it. It was primarily to review the situation. According to an appeal number, many have been diagnosed with the virus here. This is especially so because we are identifying others. We're sending a lot of people to audition. Why are we doing so? Yes, our actions all aim to slow down the spread of the virus and make sure that our infrastructure survives this strain. That's our primary objective. Therefore, we are using the measures we are taking, sending them into a environment that is at risk, thus ensuring a slower spread. Hv. A senator refers to a representative of the ambulance and firemen. I think it is advisable to discuss the order of the National Security Council in a whole context, since there are many things that have come up there, over the past two and a half years that I have taken over as a director, which I believe is a reason to discuss at the council, in order to form the access of the Communications Minister on the Internet Security case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I think it's a discussion we need to take better at the U.S.A. field.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u9	Mr. President. Thank you for these answers, tops. Prime Minister. I think it is very important to try to share information and celebrate a special review of the order of the National Security Council. OECD was publishing a specific declaration on the economic impact of the crown virus. We have naturally criticized this, and we know that the economic breakdown began last year, and it was already under way, and we saw that in January, it was a big recession, including: The government's wages. We're seeing it in terms of prestige, etc. And now the crown virus comes on top of it all. What economic measures will the government take now, not for the next year? Does the prime minister think it is possible to speed up decisions regarding the decline of taxes that would be set for next year and the next year? Is it possible to go to it now? As we are ready for various exercises, we want to declare that we are ready to support the government for all good works, especially to speed up economic activity. I must say so, so I bring a little criticism now, that I miss such action. [[The president calls.]] I feel like this is still a tiny group talk, but I want to see action now, not at some point next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u10	Mr. President. Just so I finish what I mentioned on the order of the National Security Council I believe it may be possible to consider the special attention of a health authority in some way, but their representatives have been announced at this special meeting that has been held because of the virus. But then we come to an economic impact, and the government is already preparing a response to them. Actually, I'd like to say why. A senator calls for action, to believe that our tax proposals, which were approved before a year's field but now go into effect, whether the reduction of income taxes on the income or the reduction of insurance costs, could not be more suitable in order to resist the down of the economy and to provide extra resources. I'm watching what other countries are doing. They're doing this now, what we've done. Of course, we have been increasing public investments and making compromises with biographies, which are a very suitable time frame and support of financial resources. But there is also the possibility that we need to look specifically at our tourism, what we are going to do about it. It calls for us to work together with tourism to cope with the damage caused by the reduced number of tourists, and we also need to have a good conversation with the council on the economic activities that will be taken care of so that I can reiterate it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u11	A respectable president. V.E.G. The secretary of finance interviewed the Coordinator on February 23, U.S.A. that one of the most remarkable things the state would have done was to open the books by opening the site the history of income. It would simply be possible to look up how the ideals have developed in Iceland since 1991. V.E.G. The Secretary of Economic Affairs Bjarni Benediktsson has repeatedly claimed that the government has succeeded in improving the standard of living in Iceland, and one of the best groups in today's discussion, older citizens, and those at the bottom of the pay level, referred to the requested website for proof. I'm asking the highest. Financial Minister: Is it possible to see a defect in a later population or on the Great Dread Day of July 1 each year? Is it possible to see a back - working decrease of billions of dollars in a year? No, it's not in there. So it is nothing more than a gross fraud to refer to this site in order to vindicate the government on false grounds and to show that it has succeeded in improving the standard of living for the most part of today's debate, older citizens, and desperate people. The government has entered senior citizens by 8.4 billion in prices over three years and, at the same time, by financial violence, 6 billion. So older citizens themselves are paying 75% of the increase with personal losses. Is this the highest? Minister is so pleased? 75% of the decline is an increase in numbers of declines to older citizens. Three cents out of four come down to make up for the high price development that is a benefit to the older citizens, and this is the marvelous increase. How do you get the highest. A minister of these things out? How can you see this from the history of tea?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u12	A respectable president. There will have been an article in the core, which was not actually interviewed, but it does not matter at all, since my words were referred to. I keep to it what it says that the Tech story shows an amazing biography application by the nation of all income levels. We see the collapse on the provisional income, but we also see a great growth afterward, and we see the unprecedented increase in the provisionals of the older groups. I challenge it. A senator to direct me to another era in which the provisions of older citizens have grown as fast as I intend to make it clear here that there are many. In recent years, the pension rights of older citizens are very rapidly increasing and greatly significant. For the first time, we are actually seeing large years of harvesting in pension because of putting aside the pension rights. Hv. A senator asks me if the story of income can be seen on the site. He said no. But this is not quite so simple, for we are seeing the real provision of delinquency. The figures are the actual provision of the income-ten men and the groups that can be considered for impairment, after improving and tax reformal systems have been taken into account, etc. It's real, it's based on tax returns, so if we call it, we'll get other information about how the systems work, we're not talking about what the Game History is supposed to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for short answers. He did not answer. Is it reasonable that three cents out of four will bring up greater reductions in order to transfer to those who originally own that money? Is it reasonable to boast that these classes are being improved by taking three cents out of every four with impairment to move over? It just doesn't make sense. Then there is another one, and there are those who are poor in this system today. They live less than the rich. And what about people who have been in poverty for many years? The food is poor, the housing is poor, and it cannot afford health care. Now the virus's up. Is there something going on to protect these people and especially those with underlying diseases, such as sick children, older citizens, and other people who have underlying serious medical conditions? [[The president calls.]] Many in this group have been starving and have not even afforded a decent meal, let alone explode.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u14	A respectable president. I can't quite figure out what it's like. A senator thinks of the social security network of social security. To think that three out of four dollars come from the system itself through a impairment is to turn everything upside down. We'll use accelerator connections, just like that. A senator calls the impairment, to make sure that the limited resources we can place in the social security ratio to those who have a minimum. It's that simple. Without income connections, more and more dollars would be available to those with more. And then we can go on and on and on and on and on and on and on about how much we're supposed to go up the income ladder and check people's income before they reach these revenues. But the fact is that we have about doubled our donations on the State budget in the past decade, and even though we do not look back in time, to do better there, and we should be proud of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u15	Mr. President. In the beginning, I would like to say thank you to the government, to the psychiatrist, to the police, to all the others responsible for the nation for the sake of the crown virus. V.E.G. The secretary of state, Mr President, has rightly stressed cooperation with the British in an effort to escape the European Union with the aim of ensuring the important interests of Iceland's trade with the United Kingdom. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on how to prepare for a discussion and what time a minister's appointment will provide for himself in that regard. In particular, I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to whether decisions have been made or have been made to cooperate with the Norwegian government in this regard. The same way, I'd like to ask the highest. A minister to his assessment whether our membership in the European Economic Area, EEA, will be limited to the topic or shape of the proposed commercial agreement with Britain.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u16	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks us what is important, our future relationship with the British. Like what? A senator knows that we have put much emphasis on this, and that has been a priority. We're here, for example. In the fall of 2017, with a special report on our position in regard to the British and where we would need to take care of our interests. It can be assumed that in the near future, free business talks will begin with the British, but we have been in constant contact with the British government as well as with the EFTA countries, including Norway, and we have cooperated with them. Because of what? A senator in particular asks about cooperation with the Norwegian government we have had with the Norwegian government in connection with British exits, such as other EFTA countries and have communicated with the European Union because this is a complicated issue. And because of what? A senator also mentions the EEA, so it has to do with it. Britain not only leaves the European Union but also leaves the EEA. So there are many things to look at when this is the case. Some of the relationships between Iceland and Great Britain do not belong to the EEA agreement, but a lot of things do. Then they can have some opinion about whether we are being prevented by the EEA in some way. The majority of our communications in this has been, and especially in the business area, through the EEA Convention, and this has been very good for us. So we want to continue our business relationship, and for that, the game is made. Rather, we communicate with the British in other ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u17	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It is absolutely true that this is a very important and important matter, and there is no debate, nor is it that the Ministry is the Ministry. A minister has put much emphasis on this matter recently, like a minister may shave. But what may be interesting about this would be to learn more about the intentions and the possibility of being published a discussion plan and another such. I am not completely aware of what a minister meant when he spoke of cooperation with the Norwegians. I heard him comment on it on a little general note. The question was, Would we, in particular, make a business agreement with Britain, have a special relationship with the Norwegians? [[The president calls.]] It was also my question, so I reiterate it: Is it a minister's opinion that our involvement in the European Economic Areas would place some restrictions on us or that we might be caught in some way for this proposed agreement with Britain? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u18	A respectable president. This has been taken care of, and it will not be a change, to inform the State Department regularly about what is going on in these and other important foreign affairs. There will be no change. Of course, if a person wants to review possible scenarios, he or she may be doing so on both the foreign matter committee and here at the council. I have called for special discussions by members of the Parliament to be discussed with me on subjects that they are interested in, since identifying a few of the most complex images in one minute is a small task. In any case, if they are going to cross it all, they have to be very nuclear. Of course, the big deal is this: the EEA deal has been very good for us. How cases will develop right now in the British exits will become evident. But we have put this emphasis on the exits and on the future agreements because there is a great deal of interest. [[The president calls.]] I got it. I got it. A senator to address these issues as he can if he wants to discuss them further, and I'll be happy to accept them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u19	Mr. President. In November 2017, the television show revealed an alleged departure in the fishing ship Countingberg. The latest video was from 2016 above the earlier editions of 2008-2011. Reports from seamen were unambiguous. A trajectory seemed to be actively pursuing aboard this ship as well as others. The fishing room received recordings and accounts of the ship's crew and established a three - month fishing license detriment. According to Fish Office's work order, the police are also charged with such a massive violation. It wasn't done. The drop of hunting was reported to the Ministry. In spite of the evidence that had appeared at that time, the courting influence of the reported decision was delayed so that the ship could continue fishing while the matter was being worked out. This was done in spite of a clear law against charge of rightfulness. The Ministry canceled the issue of an earlier release but sent latest recordings and reports of recent major fractures back to Fish Room for further investigation. As mentioned earlier, the matter was not reported to the police, as the Fish Office's Work Programme predicts, nor did it seem that the Fishing Room continued its investigation of this evaporation that appeared in Kak, as ordered by the Ministry. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Does he consider this procedure to be in accordance with the laws and regulations and to ensure the interest of the resource owner? Did he know that the investigation of the disfellowshipping had been put to sleep at Fish Room? Does he feel that this is a good message for the fishing workers and for the treatment of the ocean's resources?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u20	A respectable president. First about a question why. A senator as to whether I have been aware that some investigation was put to sleep in the wall of the Fish Room, I hear a statement like that for the first time and so on. I don't know anything about anything like that at all. I'm sure there can be some words about the investigation. A senator mentions. We're working at the Ministry's field, led by a particular project government, to the proposal for fishing, based on the report made by the State's Reconnaissance. The report suggested that there were some things in the fishing department, including Work in a fishing room and how it is created to take care of its own surveillance and other factors, perhaps causing the management of these cases to be inadequate in all cases. This may well be the case, and I actually feel that a State Review Report highlights it in part. I expect the project management and the meeting area behind it will provide suggestions for improvement on these factors, including matters related to the work processes involved in this matter. But on this special subject, I'm not going to repopulate here in this room, and I don't have any new information about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u21	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, this is exactly the case with the 2018 General Review Report. It gives serious indications that governments have progressively reduced the power of a fishing facility for monitoring. The number of fish patrolrs decreased by a quarter, or 22 in ten years and is monitored for an ellipsis considered weak and unremarkable. The answers from the Ministry were that people in this country think that a relapse is insignificant, but the State Accounting rejected the claim that barbaricly end up with no evidence to support it. Now three more patrolees have been informed that their work will be completed by year. Just the three have been paid to do so to this day by those who have publicly complained about it. So I ask the highest. Minister: Does he consider how he will react to the news that there is yet to be a reduced number of patrolrs? Is there a possibility that he might change currency records so that a fish company can charge a fair price for monitoring, or may be that this device, said to be the reason why there is a reduction in the surveillance of the operators in their reporting letter, may be designed to prevent the need for monitoring of this modern resource? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u22	A respectable president. I must protest that, whether in Fish Room or in other federal institutions, the budgetary requirements are set up for certain aspects of the government's activities. Not in this case Fish Room. That's a long road away. The claim that has been placed in a Fish Room, as well as in other government institutions, is general, followed by individual schemes or institutions. The rulers of the states have full freedom to determine how they meet the permanence requirements made for them. And I reiterate my opinion that it is not the Ministry's intention under my command to reduce fishing control. On the contrary, I expect us to receive a series of suggestions from a project manager who is expected to meet the comments made by Government Accounting in his excellent report, and I think we will have to wait until we see the suggestions. [[The president calls.]] But I also mention that this report also shows how a fishing room operates.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u23	A respectable president. Last week, we had the highest. Minister of Justice speaking here on the so-called Dublin case, i.e. A case where Iceland sends people back to Europe based on a so-called Trinitarian Regulation. In their answers, the highest was mentioned. Minister of Justice that Iceland does not send people to Greece on the grounds of the Dublin Protocol for circumstances that are not available. However, what refused to mention during this discussion is that Iceland still sends people, and even children, to Greece in the same or worse circumstances, if they have received the so - called status of a local refugee. I understand the legal structure behind this, that it's not Dublin's business. This does not change the situation in Greece, especially for children, as the Red Cross has repeatedly pointed to and repeatedly pointed out to governments, Foreign Institutes, and Foreign Affairs Committees. And now this discussion has come up again, that we send children into this situation. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, if there is anything to change their premium tactics, or if it is not exactly what it is. A minister believes that if children are acceptable in Greece when they are the trustkeepers, under the same circumstances, it is acceptable when they have this position. You see, there are many of the same problems or worse that people face when they reach Greece, even when children have reached a fugitive's position. I imagine what it's like to be a child and to be told that it's going back to Greece and it's all right because there's a fugitive's position. Then it's all right. Then they won't be exposed to the system or people on the streets, and they'll have their homes all of a sudden, and they won't have to live on the street, or whatever it is that people get into, in that unfortunate situation. This has been repeatedly identified by the Red Cross. As far as I can see, UNICEF agrees that Iceland's legal requirements against the United Nations Children's Child Protection and Children's Convention are not meeting these unsurpassed conditions. Then I'd especially like to mention that here we are not just talking about all people, as the Red Cross points out. We're talking about children, we're sending babies to Greece. [[The president calls.]] Take care of the highest. Minister of Justice will change this? Today?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u24	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up. You're right. A senator says there's a difference between protection and the Dublins as we call them. The matter of protection is the issues that come into our system where individuals have already been protected in some other kingdom. This is not to say, though, that these matters are done on their own by themselves. Rather, they vary from one person to another. We've seen it, including. In spite of the material treatment given to families who have been protected in Greece and then are protected here on the basis of individual assessment that people are in a particularly delicate position. We stopped sending people on the basis of the Order of Dublin to Greece, where there is no real status of those people. They are sent to a refugee camp, and there is no place in Greece. In contrast, once a fugitive has been protected, has the position, has the legal rights to which to protect those in other countries, i.e. they get housing license and rights to health care, to education, to work, to go to school, and to get access to the labour market automatically, and after three years to get a Greek citizen's right. But we know that despite this, the situation in Greece is not good. This is an assessment of each person's evaluation or treatments on the land and no European countries have stopped reimbursement of international protection already protected in Greece, not the North countries we have been trying to improve in our implementation. Of course, the social committee of foreigners reviews the decision of the whole Foreign Institute, confirms the conclusion on the basis of this individual assessment, and there we have seen examples where people are protected. So it's not automatic. A senator may suggest a little. Of course, we need to ask ourselves: " What is our system up to? [[The president calls.]] What are we setting priorities for? We have been setting priorities for those who need protection, have it nowhere else, and are in real need.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u25	A respectable president. The reality is not that we wonder what our system is capable of. The reality is that we're cutting the legislation and the system so we're holding out as many people as possible unless we're absolutely forced to accept it or make a great deal of obvious benefit. It's the reality of foreigners in Iceland, of the perps of the trustees. In my speech, I mentioned that I know the legal technique behind this process and understand it well. The only thing I don't understand about her is how people sleep at night that keep her company. According to information from the Red Cross, we should not send children to Greece. It is unannounced to send people over there according to information from the Red Cross, and UNICEF agrees that it is not our commitment to children to send them to Greece, whether they have a position or are children's. That's what's in place, a respectable president. I could give a speech if we were just talking about people in general, but we're talking about children. Today, Turkey has stopped people from going to Greece, so it is obvious that its weight becomes greater. It is obvious that the situation has deteriorated over the course of the ten years since we stopped sending people on the basis of the Order of the Dublin to Greece. Things are getting worse and have been getting worse for ten years. I sometimes wondered, when the legal explanation is coming, a respectable president, where exactly and when Icelandic politicians who have the authority to change something are going to start using the heart of yours rather than a legal device to keep people out of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u26	A respectable president. You're wrong. A senator says there's all the doors shut, and don't say yes to anyone unless he's in desperate need. It's just wrong. A senator, and he can study the figures that are open to him. Our system today costs high to 4 billion, and we are setting priorities for those in real need who need protection and who do so well. Over 500 people were protected here last year, and this is a very high number compared to the countries we look at around us. [[Up front.]] But we also want to do what we are doing and set priorities for those who truly need protection. So it can always be up to you what your system should be, but it must be helpful; it must be equal in handling matters and making sure that those in the same situation get the same payment. Some 35 individuals have been sent to Greece since 2015, not hundreds of people, as may be alluded to. A report by the United Nations Refugee Organization and the Red Cross, including the United Nations, was set up by the associate committee of foreigners. I can see why. A senator is not interested in listening to the answers or discussing these matters of some kind, since he is floundering here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u27	President. The serious events of recent years and weeks, with the Covid-19 virus and many of its consequences, provide the truth that in modern times there is no island, not even Iceland. The global community is so intertwined that events in distant lands are having an impact everywhere. There is no cross-border respect for the economic consequences across all borders. This brings to mind whether it is not the responsibility and duty of every State to be content with itself when it comes to production, especially when it comes to food production. So I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to ask the highest question. Secretary to the Iceland issue. How is work in an already called food policy? What are some of its highlights? Are we especially concerned about food safety, health care, and perhaps especially the growth of domestic production where possible? We can see in the hand of the problem that will occur in the case of more serious events or the serious situation that we hope will not happen at any time in the future that we need to be enough with our production. So I'd like to go for the highest. A minister of that: How does that work?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u28	A respectable president. So it is to answer that the Minister's Committee is working on food policy, and this work depends on the incident. We're a little behind schedule with a divorce. That's a lot of people involved. There is a broad group working to shape this policy, and I expect it to have a light of the day in the spring months. The emphasis is on meeting the requirements for the purity of food, whether in the production itself, in which we are supporting clean water, pollution is small and small in products of production, but even more so, we are doing this in the way of sustainability. Similarly, we will look forward in a way to the reality of the modern world's producers or others who face life - style, taste, and attitudes that are much faster today than they have been a relatively few years ago. All of this is on and this also enters the range I'm looking at in planning new agricultural policy for Iceland, which takes into account the emphasis on food policy. I'm going to make a second answer to that question. A senator mentioned food security and how we keep these factors in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u29	President. Thank you very much. Minister of clear answers. If so, I may want to make an even more thorough discussion of the matter and what we really want to see to it. We agreed here last year, if I recall correctly, plan 17 teams, including food production was viewed, and especially by health standards. We have taken steps there, and if not all of our opposing countries, we are well beyond the reach of many, so the government's policy in terms of healthy domestic food production is very clear. I would like to ask the minister if he agrees when we look at what the international community is all worked together, what in fact can happen if it comes for some reason on the road to Iceland, that it is necessary for Iceland to produce its own food itself become sufficient.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u30	A respectable president. Yes, with regard to food security: In a recent contract I've made with Iceland's Farming University of Innita, we've agreed on a project that the University of Agriculture will lay the groundwork on what is needed to allow us to stand on our own for a considerable period of time. Similarly, when discussing our own ability to produce food, we need to keep in mind that the reality is when we watch agricultural products in thetollary that more things are transferred than is produced here. Thus, it is a long - term project if humans have the dream that we can only stand on our own. There are also other factors to deal with food production, such as. Just oil or parts, hardware, etc. There's a lot to think about. Hv. A senator mentioned a plan of action, and I just want to reiterate it here at the Senate Hall that we submitted a report on its progress in early November. [[The president calls.]] The work goes very well, and there are tremendous ambitions, and many long - standing national agreements are being dealt with.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u31	A respectable president. I come up here to draw attention to the fact that there are inquiries available from the council that have not been answered and that they have not been asked for permission. For example, on January 21, I asked a written answer to Prime Minister on the need to obtain damage because of the distribution of sources to fish at macroil. There's a question in five teams, and I haven't had any answers to it yet. I've got an overview of inquiries, just from us Parliaments in Reunion, and a few people have been answered. Actually, I see it took up to 73 days to answer one. Since then, there are still some who have not responded, and there are up to 49 days that have passed, from about 30 days to 49 days. I urge the president to urge stewards not to stream matters from the government into the council. I would have thought it was enough time for the Ministry and Minister to answer those simple questions. For my query about the macroil and the current lawsuits, these numbers are available, including in case documents, so we should be able to get the answers readily if they want to. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u32	President's heard what to do. A senator in charge of this, and in his own accord, it is not that the General is interested in the reasonable answer to queries and that it is not possible to succeed in doing so within the stated period of time. In fact, the development has to be recognized, so it is likely that it has become a smaller part of the inquiry to a written answer that reaches the council within the appointed period.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u33	Mr. President. All I can do except come up with this team and point out that March 6th, after three days, will be months from the time I asked for a request for a sale of the final holding of the apartment budget for the seventh time in two years. No response has yet been observed. I know that the President has helped me, and I appreciate it. I know that Generalis's chief lawyer has given an opinion on this matter, and that is why it is more important for me to find answers to questions like the one I mentioned. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter that as long as there are no more activities in the council, it seems that now it is completely intolerable to live under the fact that the surveillance role of the senators is in this way inferior. I'm the highest. A president to help me now, as he did, to get the answer to the question I mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u34	The president reminds us that this subject is regularly on the program at the Presidency Committee meetings and regularly on the program for meeting with members of Congress and members of the Committees. Great effort has been made to correct these objects. Finally, this is under the committee for reevaluation of Congress laws, including whether or not they are still committed in the Senate, both in response to written inquiries and requests for reports, are over practical or should be revised in the light of experience. All of this is now subject to and will finally take action elsewhere than in the Assembly Hall Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u35	Mr. President. I'm sorry if the circuits are too long but because of what they're doing. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir made it a subject of inquiry to me that was involved in a lawsuit because of mackerel, where a state attorney would prefer to represent that subject. Hv. A senator reasoned that this request should be heard by a prime minister and by a state attorney's office under prime minister, but each minister is responsible for matters that fall under him. This particular matter is subject to the highest degree. The marine road and agricultural minister, so the inquiry should be directed to him. It's been a long time since the Ministry of Presidency has reimbursed the council asking that it be directed to the marine dignitary and agricultural ministers. I hope so. A senator received this message from the General because it was not long since the Ministry of Presidency sent them away.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u36	Clearly, there is something that needs to be considered, whether the mistake lies with us in the Generals office or with me, that the message has not continued to be passed from the Ministry to the question. Senator. You should pray in advance for respect, but this will be checked.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u37	A respectable president. I would like to make the same comment as I must have made 2013 when I was new to the council, a few years ago, of the reaction to the fact that here is a complaint about long waiting for answers to queries. Then it is always a matter of how many questions there are, and perhaps this delay is not quite realistic. Of course, the proper answers are to add the wood needed to make it possible for the senators to perform their surveillance role and role in the government and, on the other hand, to increase access to information not only to the public but also to make it available to the fine officials who then face and answer those questions. You can do better in both ways, including to improve the infrastructure of the problem because one of our basic responsibilities is to provide support and control of the government. Respect for this monitoring must be available, and it must be reflected in the management of the government itself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u38	Mr. President. Of course, I'm grateful to Mr. President for telling us that work is being done fixing the mood for reality. Although it is a good price to get all the world's committees on that assignment, it does not change the fact that while the Senate is so hard on Mr. President, it is totally ignored. As we noted earlier, it is not as if to the highest. Ministers are busy getting their affairs through, so I think Mr. President should join us and just be even harder on the Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u39	President. In this government's contract, the administrative body is referred to as a transparency in the administration. Of course, when we senators are using not only transparency but transparency in order to monitor the European Commission, our administrative rights, it is necessary to do what is right. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said. If there is a lack of this transparency, if there is any lack of the ability to perform this surveillance role, then, of course, more funding should be put in place to improve the infrastructure to increase transparency in order to increase the monitoring of the target. It's the new information Act. It's the highest level. The prime minister presented a little higher than that. I think it's very interesting to hear the highest. The general president rows the other way and talks about extending the time we have to obtain information in the power of our surveillance role. That's very interesting. This is not in accordance with the government covenant, not in accordance with good government or in accordance with transparency. [[The president calls.]] I hope the President accepts those words and answers them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u40	The president hopes that what he said will be handled correctly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u41	A respectable president. There's been a lot of discussions here before I wanted to draw attention to it, because I'm not responsible for the dam this time with 12 queries, that there is a petition to the minister on legal projects and their expenses. At the council, it seems to cause a dam or to be saying that it is too extensive, but I find it very easy to ask just what legal projects are and how much they cost. I'd think it wasn't too extensive. Another thing I would like to draw attention to is that in general, a problem with the deadline is not that it is too short. You can work the other way. There aren't many responses from every Ministry a week, nothing that much to do about it. At the same time, we see a petition adopted at the General Assembly two years ago, but the report has not yet arrived on the administrative committee in the General Research Reports. It's been two years, it's been stretching the paw for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u42	A respectable president. I think it's true for the President that a smaller part of the inquiry has been answered within the hour of this loss. I'd like to mention two inquiries I proposed to the minister of foreign affairs that I consider to show in a certain light, on the one hand, for the release of international agreements while there is a very serious problem with the Council of Government. It was submitted on December 12, and three references have been made to provide an answer. In fact, the government in the meantime discussed initiative projects for the publication of international agreements, so I expect this to be a very positive response, since the problem has been fixed in the meantime. On the other hand, I would like to mention another inquiry, a request for a war propaganda submitted by the end of November. It has been requested four times. I'd like to ask myself, " Is the President really too kind when the Ministry takes four hours for a question to answer before Christmas, and now we're close to Easter? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u43	Mr. President. For this reason, in the discussion of delayed answers to queries, I must mention some i have allowed myself to submit and I think that there have been some cramps of answers to. Later in this month, it has been six months since I proposed a inquiry to the highest level. Foreign Minister on the commitment of the Icelandic state to properly introduced EU types have a priority in the Icelandic court. This request is related to the EFTA reminder letter from December 2017. This is not a new matter, but no answer will come after nearly six months. Also, I allow myself to mention another inquiry to the highest level. Minister of state to address the Ministry's comments made at least One of the legal opinions we had here when discussing the third energy package. [[The president calls.]] I'll let me use this opportunity, tops. President, promoting the highest. The president uses the advice he has to push after the Senate inquirys are answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u44	President. I would like to give the President of the Generals an opportunity to explain what was wrong in my case. I mentioned that the power of the Generals and of the non-profit management board was in the government covenant. I mentioned that we are in the power of inquiry, the reporting requests, etc. ... andI mentionedthat I hear a president - this is cut together in a picture - only mention as a solution to the problem that the answers are too late to extend them deadlines in line with reality. Isn't that all the right things I mentioned?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u45	Hv. A senator said that the president retorted in the opposite direction by the prime minister, i.e. to increase transparency in the council's activities, and therefore, the president rejects. President's in no such direction. The president believes that he was fully on trial to get answers to his inquiries. The most famous controversy there is. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Gerstein, the Sæmundsson of Sæmund, to two Ministers, who led to a high legal opinion as the prime committee finally made its way and supported the president. A senator in answering those inquiries. It was a fundamental question that was very important to be answered, and it is now a clear conclusion that ministers cannot offer themselves a personal protection in such cases but should be answered to queries clearly and clearly. There is also a fundamental reason why the Council does not censor answers from councils. The answers must be final and in accordance with the legal requirement that they are immediately published after the Ministry answers. In this regard, two important factors have been removed in the past year, but this has taken a lot of work and a lot of contact with the board of directors. Otherwise, the president feels that it is better for us to discuss this matter at an appropriate time, on the presiding committee, and at meetings with the council members.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u46	Mr. President. Sometimes I think Mr. President is the most misunderstood man in the house. I understood a word. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, so Mr. President would be discussing the possibility of extending his deadlines to meet perhaps a real position, so I felt that there was nothing unusual about that word. Now that I'm up here, I'm just gonna have to say that you see, Mr. President often attract the reinstatement of the government rather than of the council and in his worst days even being like a government journalist. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u47	The president encourages you. To retort these statements, a senator asked for respect. That's not the way senators speak to their president. [[To the point: Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, ……]] [[For example: Well?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u48	A respectable president. The third thing I was going to come in on this one minute was the third thing. I guess I won't come in. I can agree with that with the highest. The president did well with the Presidency Commission on the matter in terms of the Homological Protection Program, asking why. A senator who went over earlier. However, it was not the criticism that came from members of Congress; it was about time spent and the response of a president who may not be practical. Hv. The members of Congress will likely want to hear that something will be done to help the Ministry do better to answer better and better. That is the correct answer from the viewpoint of the senators who are maintaining their role. I'm not trying to be rude, but let's get one thing straight, Congressmen who speak in Pontta just criticize their president if they want to. That's how it is, a respectable president, and I don't give any discounts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u49	They do, but they are also responsible for their words. [[Foreground on: Yes, yes.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u50	A respectable president. I would like to respond to the words of a respected president earlier because of the reactions that have been here recently. From my point of view, it is most difficult to remember that it took a year to get information about the money paid by members of Congress. It took repeated inquiries to avoid repetitious answers instead of just answering straight out. Finally, simply a president had been painted into a corner by answering. Second of all, there was a code here that matters to be true. What kind of slipper is that, more dignified President?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u51	President. I have to admit, I got a bit carried away when the president answered the question. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson earlier. I don't think it's okay to experience it as a senator that I can't come to a chair and criticize a president without worrying about or just being afraid of the rage at the top. A president I've been through before. This is a bit of my experience right here and now, and I don't think the reaction is okay. We must come up and criticize the president and speak in the way we consider our duty without the need to be afraid of the little dictator within him.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u52	It's getting better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u53	A respectable president. At the beginning of a meeting, we had a fine place to speak at the highest. Prime Minister, who came here to share information. She answered questions and shared information. I think it's important. This includes some. Reinstall from government opposition. It is even more enjoyable if there is a particular conversation that will start where information is shared and there is no question that there will be criticism. There may be some lack of comfort and criticism. We're up here to show that there are many days, up to 79 in the event, that the project will respond to council requests. So to remove our teeth from our position of government by making pronouncements that the deadline may be extended when nothing comes from the government. One week after a week, we will fill our program for the council program with a Senate bill after a Senate bill. [[The president calls.]] Then the president comes in and puts it into his mouth. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson just for describing his self - righteous view of how a president behaves his work and a meeting board. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] It's just embarrassing. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u54	Mr. President. I agree with the members of Congress who have urged that the answers to queries will be quick and effective. Our role in monitoring the Executive Director is e.g. by making queries and requesting reports. The law is clear, it's spoken of 15 days of activity, i.e. Two weeks that a minister has to answer, but this seems rarely to be carried out. I have one inquiry that is considerably older than 79 days. Then it's first November of last year and the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister has not yet responded. Of course, the resources the senators have for answering the advice of the various authorities must be effective, and I encourage a president to cooperate with us in not allowing the Commission to escape this course of duty.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u55	That is exactly what the president believes he has been doing and exactly what is on the program and will be discussed in the Committee on Parliamentary Review. It did not work well to witness to those who have had disagreements there. It has discussed how these substances can provide more efficiency. One thing that has certainly been going on there is whether these deadlines are unrealistic, or whether they should be different, so that they are generally the ones listed today but that it is possible to expect a longer time if questions or reports are very extensive. There are absolutely exceptions to reports within the expected amount of time in the council. If you want to keep it that way, it's fine. And then President is going to say that if any senator had spoken of the President of Iceland like a boy. Einarsson Before that, the senator would have been a long way off. Ninety-four. According to Congress, what happens when a senator speaks disrespectfully of the President of Iceland, etc., but the President intends to leave the members of Congress to himself according to the way he chooses to speak of his president, i.e. The General President, who is slow to trouble in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u56	Hv. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einar Einar Einarsson may have spoken twice about the chairmanship of the President already, but he is still able to become with the permission of a president because he is anxious.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u57	Mr. President. I may not be as anxious as Mr. President but I don't think I have anything to do with an honest president. All I do is describe my experiences. If that's the case, I can draw out some footage to support what I'm talking about. Of course, I respect the authority of the president and his right to express myself, but I'm aware of the first words.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u58	Mr. President earlier said that Mr. President felt that he had cared for the council's interest in the European Commission. It's fine. Of course, Mr. President may feel that he has done something, but he does not have a requirement for public members to feel the same way about it. Nothing at all. Einarsson The above was justified by the above - mentioned by Mr. President earlier in my opinion. Mr. President has no obligation to agree with him in his work. They will pass their judgments on the President's conduct, and Mr. President will have to consider this matter, as we all have to do on our own. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u59	Mr. President. I respect the authority of the President. I also have a deep respect for the duties of a senator to handle, and I find it very important that in this chair a president can be criticized. Of course, the people are responsible for their words, that has always been so, but because I have to mention that here I think that something that has not happened so often, that the president gives a senator a release for the third time in a talk about President's conference administration because the president considers that the senator is very low, if I have just noticed. What will the president do in the future to appreciate how much we are in the background? Does it depend on how loud I speak, or how big and meaningful a word I use? [[Up front.]] I'm in a lot of trouble here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u60	The president believes that it will explain for itself why he gave a what. 5th a.m. That's the north side. has come into play in this situation. This was because the exchange of words was between them. A senator and a president. Of course, the president has the authority to clear the terms of Congress if necessary because of normal exchanges, as per local authorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u61	President. I'll probably stop wondering how a quick discussion might get started. It's natural to complain that answers are late from stewards, which I think the entire body of Congress was joined together and the president agrees. Then the president describes what work and what has been going on without any decisions having been proposed to change the state of Congress, and suddenly he is talking about a minor dictator and he is not the president of the whole General Assembly. I'm a simple man, as we've seen many times, but I think we're all responsible for what we're all supposed to say. For those who believe that the President of the Generals has done nothing to help with the opposition, we may well be thinking that we were just in the long run during an unprepared period of inquiry that the president came in to provide special attention for the government territory. People can laugh at it if they're made that way, but that's the way it is, then. þm. Logi Einarsson, that the question period was extended so that all representatives of the government resistance could arrive. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u62	President. I'd like to start by less. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér notes that it was he who took the last query in this long question period. In fact, it has been said that most of the time it is executives who receive this additional request made by the president. Just to keep it up, we didn't have much extra leeway with this prolongation of the question period. It happens from time to time. We are here to discuss that the government is too late to answer our questions and the point of that is that it is now only to extend the time the government is able to answer questions. For that, it's the highest. The president criticized, that it is the policy rather than work harder on the government to answer at the right time. I find it totally normal to criticize the highest. A president for that approach, and I'm impressed with the response. The president of Logi Einarsson's criticism is characterized by agitation rather than by perfunctory arguments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u63	President. I don't know if everyone will figure out the arrangement at an unsupervised question period just the way it was here to make sure all government groups are able to get in on the queries. [[Up front.]] To make sure that the members of the board of directors do things at once, as members of the board also have a view of what ministers are doing, the question period is prolonged, but so, the highest. President, not to be taken from the rights of the government, but from time to time, for a government party to ask and for an outside body member. [[Up front.]] The rights of the government in this situation were not under way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u64	No, it was...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u65	There wasn't any luck...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u66	Not a conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u67	It was not the right thing to do. It was added to keep this right. [[Up front.]] I would now have thought it was commendable.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u68	Mr. President. It's an interesting debate, but I'm coming up here to point out that it's now 43 weeks since I requested a report from the highest level. Education minister on the state of affairs after short study for a student's test without getting an answer. This request has been given twice to a council hall for Congress purposes, but 43 weeks in one report, according to the highest report. Ministers have been taken all this time, and I wish for the help of a president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u69	A respectable president. The conference committee was also held at the highest level. President with agents. I may have been sitting there for the first meeting, where there was a change in the seminary and the procedure of the council. It discussed the goals we had in this work, where we wanted to do it. It was strengthening the government position, making General family prostitution, perhaps just a man - made workplace, promoting Congress work, and the committee's work. That's how I understood what we were putting up with, but all I've heard from this committee is to extend the time the government has to answer, shorten the time the president has to stand and read the government's leaflets, and stand in some kind of contingencies to make it easier for the President to be in the Senate. I'm not living up to the fact that these original targets are being set, and I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u70	Mr. President. I was going to conduct this conversation today because I thought it was going to be quite a bit of a nonsense for the individual senators, but I have to be able to, because I thought it was the last talk, which is why. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdótir's party, completely out of harmony with discussions that have taken place at the Senate Committee, feels that I feel that there is no reason for the discussion to run its course to the end of this day without any claim of viewpoint. I don't know how much trouble there is. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir has followed up on a panel of discussions, but what she claims on the emphasis and work on that committee or what her work is expected. Regarding the position of the president, I believe that while members of the council have every right to criticize a president on the topic, it is true, however, that man has in mind that the role of the president is to direct the council. [[The president calls.]] The role of the president is to direct the council meetings and to make sure that members of Congress do not go outside, for example. Timeout, which is often present. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u71	The President sometimes forgets about the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u72	A respectable president. I didn't mean to take part in this discussion, but that's all I can do. I feel like I'm watching repeated material over and over. We're like hamsters on a bicycle. It's always the same discussion. Should Questions Be Responded? We must be able to resolve this matter. I say for my part that I've been on the other side, watching talk like that on TV. All I did was stand up, shut up, and start doing something else. We have to resolve this once and for all, answer queries, and make sure things are done. Otherwise, we'll be here again and again. We'll forget about this. We'll be back in a month and start exactly the same ring. I don't think there's any point in increasing the respect of the council that we're going to repeat this one more trip.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-65.u73	The president has not noticed that more people want to talk about the President's conference management, but a very large part of the Parliament's room has done so twice. The president wants to say, of course, have a problem. Congress officials have the right to criticize their president. Of course, any member of the council, whether of greater parts or of smaller portions, may be at odds with something in the conduct of their president. They have the right to give that in view, but it is good for them to be reasoned in a balanced and logical manner. The president does not back up the fact that calling the President of the Generals a government journalist or a small dictator is disrespectfully speaking of the president of the General Assembly. The members of Congress who want to make it true but the president repeats that this is not how he will tolerate any member of Congress, for example, the president of Iceland. This discussion will now be followed.
