ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u1	To answer, Economic and Economic Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Tourism, Industrial, and Neony Ministers, Health Ministers, Ministers of Justice and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u2	Mr. President. The rural population has suffered a huge drop in income and an increase in cost in this situation. They have a very narrow format. In this difficult year's trip, pressures in close - up service increase tremendously, and we are talking about preschool, school, aging services, cases of disabled people, and others. We're going to have to defend this whole thing. I don't doubt whether the local community wants to do that, but there's a decrease in outback, and there's a financial decrease in donations. Despite being one of the government's arms, rural society is often following a business that makes a clear distinction between business and investment and the emphasis on keeping business at zero. If they are to succeed at the same time as at high cost, they are likely to respond with less investments. The government's budget is quite expected. Both, however, are very negative. The cut - down rate of service is more intense on most people who earn less money and increases the difference between them. If rural society is forced to reduce investment, it will suck the power out of its resistance and will directly counteract the stimulus action of the state's funds. The entire economy is badly affected, Mr. President, in all the public. Surely, now it is possible to ask, " Is my community not only have and cannot owe more for my investment? ' It is also possible to ask: Is it normal for them to be forced to do so on loans far inferior to those offered to a government fund? In the end, the public's net collection becomes exactly the same thing regardless of which arm the loans. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Will the rural areas be better met with direct support or at least favorable credit lines over what has been done so far?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u3	A respectable president. This is a very important discussion. A senator will be scheduled, i.e. the official and role exchange of the state and community, their income exchange, the independence of the rural communities. Here in Iceland, we have given high priority to the financial independence of our rural society, their own income institutions, and their responsibility for their own litigation. It appeared to us, for example. in Iceland, the scope of the entire government level in the total government budget is much lower than the total government budget. We live in the North. There are also some transfers and direct government support, e.g. through an equation fund, a much lower percentage of total municipal income than the same places I've been referring to, i.e. correspondent in the North. Similarly, rural activities are much larger, fewer, and more people are generally considered to be more than proportionate to these areas. As a result, I'm calling attention to the fact that the consequences of running the direction we've driven in Iceland have been to place so much emphasis on the independent business unions, their independence and responsibility for their own affairs. This can be illustrated in a very rough way, so when your rural society is successful, the population skimmed off a little bit, getting a huge increase and going through such a period with relatively light weight. On the other hand, when they do not so well, they cannot cope with the change. I believe that the situation that has come up, including... in a conversation with the local community, asking for far more questions than just whether the State will now rely on billions of dollars to solve some temporary problem. This requires a much deeper question than that. Of course, the Kingdom will fulfill what we have said. We have recently agreed with our rural communities to be on their side, and we have had many measures to do so this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u4	Mr. President. This is precisely because of more direct support in the North countries to rural communities, which are not as bad today as our rural communities do. They just live in a crisis right now. 80% of my partner's pay is due to educational and social services. My partner's pay is 50% of his budget per year while he's only 25% at the same time as being cut down. I'm not talking about throwing out money, I've seen it look like it's a flying thing that's been put in the necessary steps for an enterprise. I simply ask: Is it possible for me to take advantage of my community's more favorable loans, just like corporate support loans? And I'm finally asking, is it the highest? Ministers don't agree with me that we're going to be weakened and that we're going to be able to take part in this challenge to all of us, even the highest project. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u5	A respectable president. Yes, I can agree that because of the public part of which our rural society is or stands, it would not be a good entry into the economic policies we are now driving. Therefore, we have had a variety of measures to help with the relief of rural areas. We've been through the council with a lot of action, and we were now last, just so I mention one example, increasing the reimbursement for projects that will make it easier for them to stay in next year. Hv. A senator says there is more direct support in the North countries. This is because it usually has much more direct support. There's more to the law. It is not an equation fund in the way we do here, to have preconceived formalities so that the equation fund is exaggerating the fluctuations as they do in Iceland, but to look to the real need. [[Up front.]] That is why I say this calls for much deeper questions or a deeper view of the financial relations between the state and the community. It may well be that we should address this question: Is it worth the rural society's financial independence, as they do today with independent farms, when further considered? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u6	A respectable president. Depression is one of the most common diseases in the world and plays a major role in disability. People with depression or other mental disorders must be dealt with regularly. Sadly, there are many pots that are broken in health matters within the medical system. Sick people who suffer from serious mental health problems come to close doors in many places. Sadly, both children and adults have tragic experience in seeking help from our healthcare system of Icelanders. It is absurd to have the tragic experience of calling the Hospital Department of Distress and being told that there is no help. That a health professional should be instructed to go to a family doctor first. It's a long wait there. It is not advisable for sick people to come to the door of the health - care system. There's such a shame. That you need to go through a curved system to avoid a mental - health professional or a mental - health professional can't be right, chief. Secretary of health. Is not emergency services available for poorly ill people with mental illness? Or do you have to wait for weeks for a family doctor to contact a psychiatrist? Children must wait for months for help. There seems to be no help for children who live with parents with mental illness. How many of these holes are in the system, topv? A health minister? How long do you have to wait for the system to work for everyone? Isn't it time we broke up our sleeves, took our pants off, and started handling these matters? This is so serious, really.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Indeed, it is important to stress mental health at all times, but especially now, when we are dealing with the effects of Covid-19 and the measures we have had to take to prevent illness. During this ideal period, we have given considerable attention to this group of subjects and to ensure complete mental - health services. We've employed psychologists on health care throughout the country to ensure mental - health services at the first degree. We've made a mental - health team all over the country and established a special mental health team for prisoners. We have been working to promote distant health care. We have set up a special budget for the promotion of mental health care for Covid-19, 540 million this year and continue this year. That's the budget that has, for example. has been used to add ten psychiatric standards to the health care of the capital area in recent months and other psychologists throughout the country. Mental - health professionals were temporarily set up in April of the past, which has the responsibility to systematically coordinate activities with users of health care that are important for the development and development of the ministry. We've emphasized prevention and public health. We have increased funding for suicide prevention. We've been working to reduce the waitings for ADHD analyses, both in children and in adults, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, Land Hospital, ADHD and Medical Health. We have been working on a mental - health conference until 2030 in the Ministry, which will be based on health policy. This series of subjects, the mental - health issues, is my priority and has been my entire office.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u8	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister answers. Yet, despite all these answers and all that is being done, people are still falling between ships and docks. There are holes in the system, there are no children, and they live with parents with psychiatric disorders. Children are still on hold. And what may be the scariest part of the world is that people complain that those with serious mental illness do not get through the phone into an emergency room, receive no help, and that there is no danger that if anyone needs an emergency service, they will just be referred to a family doctor for direction. It doesn't make sense. In no way can it be said that someone can be referred to and approached by a family doctor. Health is not open 24 hours a day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u9	A respectable president. The challenge is that if the child is in emergency situations, he should not have to wait. That's everybody's understanding of the system. That's the kind of message I get from the front staff that it's the thought. And I know that if there's any consciousness on the importance of setting priorities for children in an acute situation, it's for those people who do this service.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u10	Mr. President. Iceland's Economic Institute has provided a report on the effectiveness of carbon costs on the use of fuel. The conclusion is that evidence needs more to be reasoned on why the carbon account is suggested to reduce emissions. The data cited in the report suggests that the cost must be very high to function. At the same time, it would have to be explained as to what action will be taken in order to get people between their destinations. Furthermore, the tax has a low impact on people who are more likely to use automobiles less than those who can afford to drive. In this report, there is much interesting, and to be honest with you, I'm a little surprised that she didn't get more attention. On page 18. 7 of this report says, for example. from the effects of a carbon tax in Ireland, that the carbon tax did not change the use of fuel in that country. The economic effects of carbon taxes are then discussed, that they are complex and important what the state does with the income of the tax. If tax intake is not taken into account, most people concluded that land production and employment are reduced after a carbon charge is imposed. The tax has a greater impact on the life rates of low - paying people, while others and carbon pay have greater influence on consumption and interest in poor homes. So says on page 18. 8 By permission of the President: In the overall sense, the consumption of people's consumption of carbon costs has not been greatly affected so far. On page 18. 13 says: To reduce the consumption of fuels by 10%, the price to increase by 10/0.35 or less than 30% is required. Everyone sees how this would affect the economy and the economic situation in general. V.E.G. Environment Minister. Isn't this report a review of the carbon tax policy of this government?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u11	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for today's conversation on carbon pay. They are put on to try to change behavior, trying to get people to go from using fuels that cause pollution and climate change. That's why carbon charges are important. However, since this report points out, the cost would actually have to be much higher in order for it to bite better. That's the main message in this report. It's certainly gone by the fact that the taxation this one can take on different people, that's exactly right. However, all depends on the way you try to make poor people useful to others, to take advantage of newer fuels, to buy vehicles for them, etc. The market for this is all about to change. More used cars are coming into the market, etc. The point is that carbon costs should change behavior. This government has raised them in an effort to influence these changes. We have also put in motion the means of directing people to use environmental vehicles, which turn both to public transportation and to the ability to walk, cycle, etc. So this report is not a fault at all. It is primarily about the fact that to get a good carbon charge, it really needs to be higher than it is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u12	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. The minister rightly mentioned the rise of the tribute in the time of that government, and it certainly has. When this government takes over, the annual fee is 3.5 billion. That's over 6 billion this year. This report confirms exactly what we Middle-class people have always said, that this taxation is not balanced with the population in a fair way. We're good to go. The report confirms this. This is not the way to lay taxes on the common people when they take the worst out of earnable people. It's got to be said right now, topv. Minister. It says on page 18. 13 In the report: ▪ There is insufficient data on the use of fuel in the EU..•Why does the Ministry refer to this report as a core source of taxation on fuel if there is evidence that there are insufficient data on the use of fuel in companies on the land? [[The president calls.]] I have to say that, topv. Minister, to me, this is just a poor case plan to back up his case with a report that goes contrary to what the government has established. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u13	V.E.G. President. What this report shows is that carbon charge, passed through it in the report, is a validated way to try to influence people's behavior in order to reduce their use of fuels, resulting in pollution that causes climate change. That's the point. The report also shows that for this to work even more effectively, it would actually have to raise the value of carbon. And then governments can have ways to equalize the potential difference in such taxation of different income - rich groups in society, and that is the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u14	President. Kristrún Mjöll Frostadóttir, chief economist, has considered a number of factors involving the recently and economic flexibility of society's farms in response to the consequences of government control measures. The situation of rural society is most clearly said to be serious in the case of government policy. At first, Kristrún noted that in recent years, rural society has not been unsolvable. In addition, rural communities have provided equal management balances and government funds, apart from financial monopolitan funds, for the population of the fallen bank. In general, rural communities have been well driven, despite the fact that the number of disabled to farm members is 18% of their budget gain since 2010. In fact, the State requires the maintenance of their contributions to the rural community for the sake of the legal affairs of the disabled, pay - maintenance requirements. The objective of the government is to give up, to deliver the injection, and to get things going again. At the same time, though, the government budget shows that an investment in rural society will be far below the historical average. The conclusion is that although the next year's investments double as compared to 2019 C.E., both rural society and public enterprises are reduced. The total government investment will be 15 billion less than two years ago and comparable to this year. It is now all the injections of the government to get us out of the crisis. The government will only throw the responsibility on the local community. It is irresponsible and reckless and works against the declared targets of the government, taking the basic services of this country's inhabitants, affecting the most vulnerable groups, and excrating basic rural communities. I'm asking the highest. Minister: How can the Minister of Ministers defend such a reckless and irresponsible policy in the rural areas?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u15	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. It would be very interesting to take this objective discussion about the situation and the need for the local community. But approach it. Of course, when a senator says that it is the policy of the government that leads the countryside into some problem, when everyone knows what people are dealing with in this pandemic society, Covid. It's quite possible here to take a topic discussion on how the Icelandic rural level is built up, on its own income stocks, was done here in the previous answer today, and how different it is from what is to create in other parts of the North countries. Hv. A senator claimed that all rural communities were well fired. It's simply possible to go through the board, but a group that was working all summer set up a model, and it's obvious that the rural communities are very different. It is obvious from reading that some rural societies could do much better and even the largest rural society in the country that should still have the most economic potential. There is evidence to suggest that if it is a rural society alone, it needs to rely on building rights in order to be in plus, something is really wrong in that business. I don't like those claims. A senator goes quite far. It is quite another matter, however, to take this topic on how we can increase public investments. We could do that at the council. We could increase it, and that's why the government's in charge. I know that such interest is there, at least I hear it from the individual members of the budget board. You might also wonder, " Is it really possible to approach a discussion about this, because the level of government is the way it is, whether the State should arrive there in some public investment, making up some kind of investment fund? ' [[The president calls.]] We do well to examine such things to encourage the investments of our rural society. There's been a discussion that says they can't approach loans. [[The president calls.]] There are 75 billion people in the country's loan fund at a very good market where local communities can pick up but do not pick up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u16	A respectable president. Government policy is displayed in a financial program, and I ask: How can it be aware of the government's policy that rural society reduces public investment in economic downturns? How's it going to say, "Injection with your left hand and contraction with your right hand?" What kind of course is that, both better somehow? There's not a whole bridge in this government programme, adding here, shrinking there, maintenance of disabled, life forms for the elderly, corporate resignations, greater government projects and smaller localities. It is indeed a government with wide appeals, not to the right and to the left, but to the outside and south. They are the cold greetings sent by the minister to the settlements of the country, and that is a very deserved future. I would not be surprised to learn that it would strengthen the government's position in its policies on law-enforcement partnerships if certain rural communities have to commit themselves to business and become even more dependent on government handouts for the rest and this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u17	A respectable president. How did the previous discussion of this opposite answer to unsupervised inquiries become available? I encouraged him. A senator to discuss the subject. He's here writing down on paper, which he's probably been sitting over last night, all the cowards he was going to have here, and having nothing to do with what I was urging to do. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[These are comments to your answer.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] He'll just stick to a list of some bullshit. I'll just stand here and have a special discussion with why. A senator, he wants to do so, about the state of the rural society, about all the things that are here. [[Up front.]] I'm here for that objective discussion, and I've just concluded a statement and an agreement with my rural society, on the other hand, on public finance and on the basis of a declaration for support of one five billion. [[Set up the deal between local society and the state.]] If we appreciate the actions taken so far, they are probably more than 15 billion. I'm ready for that discussion. A senator, though it seems to me, when I am under the feet of the senator, that he is not.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u18	Mr. President. I listened to the voice exchange as the highest possible. The minister of finance meant what. paritaprevir A week earlier, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson's son on health - care costs and pressures. Like the head of the Middle Party, I experienced the answers of a financial minister who had any political news. The government has worked to send people to foreign assignments that can easily be carried out here by independent doctors for much less than the cost of sending these people out. The Landspians are now required to delay the action of Covid and are expected to be delayed. To send out people in this way is up to three times the cost of health care, including discomfort and mismanagement for patients, and I refer to the carbon track. The cost is to pay for flights, pay for lodging, pay a day's money, and at times pay the daily expenses of an escort's escort. I admit to being optimistic when I listened to words from the highest degree. Secretary of finance in this discussion, for he said of this, by permission of the president: ▪ I believe that it is always the right time to take care of the money, thinking that, regardless of these years of crowning, it is generally a good way to negotiate with those who can be flexible and practical in rendering this public service, a service that is funded by public funds. So I would like to follow their two conversations and ask in the wake of those words. The secretary of finance whether it is to be expected that he will bring about a change now, whether it is not solely necessary to improve the quality of the government and whether a financial minister believes that this procedure can be justified in the current situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u19	A respectable president. There's no new news in itself that I think it's hard to find justification for sending people to other countries on the basis of a court that is rooted in the EEA Convention at the same time, when there are circumstances and people to do the same operation in Iceland. That's what I've been saying a thousand times before. What is involved in this discussion are things that we are dealing with today and are being strongly affected, including the following: in the health department at the moment, which is the flow issue in the health care system. He is involved in this process by reducing the performance of major hospitals because of the types of action required in many cases. And, yes, I think we have these clues, these examples of us sending people to other countries to action that could have been solved for less costs in Iceland. But I also think we have many other examples of how with a better organization, we could do more for the same or less money. This calls for deeper discussions. I often feel that the council is a little neglected in this discussion, that it has little to do with anything other than some particular example, individual narratives. There are occasionally some deeper opinions, such as went to Boston Consulting Group, which examined the performance and production of the health system or part of it at its time. I would be delighted if here at the council's scene was more general maintenance by taking the initiative in the performance and production of individual aspects of the medical system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u20	President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answers. Yes, it is true, there is no news that the minister of finance communicates in this way. But I am not asking about his words. Is he going to continue to support this course in action? And because it's the highest. A financial minister notes that this is sometimes some parables, so there is an inquiry by a senator within his own order of how many such measures have been performed during the course of 2016-52019. That's 100, I think, replacement surgery, 90 hip replacement surgery. These are not unique parables, it is a policy, and this is done. I'd like to frame a previous question, if a minister can't imagine it in this condition that he'll do more than talk about it, that he'll start using himself to do this. This is not the only problem. This isn't the biggest problem. But in such a situation, I think we can begin to demand that we look at and approach them in a different way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u21	A respectable president. Yes, I will continue to wield myself, to the extent that these things belong to my peace, because we do better. I know, and I sense that it's ambition to do better. I'm saying this with the unique examples just because sometimes I feel that we're a little embarrassed to the discussion, not with enough depth of analysis. At times, I feel that the council should be better equipped to provide support by having these diagnostics performed or by calling them in because they are the others and then laying the basis for a deeper discussion on these matters. I'd also like to mention in this context, although we've been discussing this on the basis of costs, that we talk about the social costs, not just the person that the government needs to add to the scale but the cost to society, the cost to those involved, the cost of being from work, is not fully involved in the community because of problems in the knee or hip or shoulder, or where it might be. [[The president calls.]] This is vitally important, and it affects society all in many cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u22	We're not talking about a report request from... [[The president had stated that the fourth part of the program is off with the request of a 1st transporter. So this request is not a vote today. However, the 5th part of the program consists of graduates of high school in the time of the Korean epidemic. [Laughter at the Assembly Hall.] And if any. A senator would like to discuss it, then, please.]] And if any. A senator would like to discuss it, please.) V.E.G. President. That's interesting. But I had planned to discuss the file request that was given earlier, so I just wanted to thank you very much for the word and ask you to live well. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u23	V.E.G. President. I thank you for having this important discussion on the program and thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for giving an answer. Farming has been the last step forward. The price of most products, especially meat, has not been maintained in general GDP or has fallen directly. Farm market markets have been reduced due to reductions in transport services. The question is, what is the competitive situation in Iceland? Icelandic market is unique in international comparison. Farming in the EU has broad sources of work in the manufacturers' organisations and products to achieve the targets of farmers' survival. Thus, the Lisbon Convention provides wide sources to provide special rules for agriculture in order to ensure the survival of those who are involved in it and to supply food. It is an illegal discrimination against the sector that customs are not charged and legalized by domestic products. This can be the commitment of the Icelandic government to EU rights. In many cases, it has been found that there is a major difference between what appears to be moved into the country compared to the export of the same products, especially from countries of the EU. The problem lies in the fact that a greater amount of product appears to come out of the European Union in export reports from the customs authorities, which are tolled here into the country of customs that carry tolls. On the other hand, goods appear to flow on customs numbers that are not toll, and there is no way to know where they come from or what products they are. The purpose of such practices can be wondered. All evidence suggests that this is nothing more than a massive toll fraud. Tollavind is a lawbreaker, not a mismanagement of agreements, as has even been mentioned here in the General speaker. The district attorney has at least a Once this year, these types of offenses are reported. Sadly, though, in some cases these fractures may have lasted for years. The Icelandic state must take it seriously to adhere to an international uniform toll and its legality in this country. There are clear rights and Iceland is committed to following it. Negotiations on a land-of-the-count service in relation to e.g. The European Union's customs misplaces public imports and exports that will inaccurate all economics. In addition, wrongs or inaccurate economics affect Iceland's treaties with other countries. It is important to keep the product-containing data from the seller, e.g. In the EU it shows which toll number of products are exported from the EU. The concept of the classification of the import report here in the country has to be defined as a category to distribute on the country. But what is the harm done by consumers and State and farmers over the matter? Many people have been harmed by the inactivity of the government on this issue. First, the state will be made up of possible goods that have been brought to the country and that had been brought into customs normally. Second, farmers have become off a market running on millions of gallons of milk and hundreds or thousands of tons of meat. If such was a government's intention, it would have been closer to saying so plainly than not to maintain aesthetizing about the importance of agriculture, since farm income is permanent. Similarly, all the other markets that have followed the rules set by the legal states have carried an unscrupulous object because of the illegal discrimination involved in failing to collect laws made by tax collectors. V.E.G. President. My time is over, but not so I will finish it when I come back to the end of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u24	A respectable president. I'm happy to have an opportunity to discuss this important matter at the council. I've had a few questions from a saying I'm going to take care of. He even asked. how to react to the toll authorities and the Ministry has been able to inform us that there is a conflict in the number of exports from the European Union and imports in this country. The response was that we set up a working group to detect this discrepancy. This morning we're publishing the results of the staff on the Department's Homepage. It is, in fact, there. It should be noted that there is a need to increase the accuracy of the documentation and follow-up of customs funds. There's discrepancies and it's going both ways. Sometimes the numbers are higher in this country than EU exports, sometimes lower. We want to get closer to it, so I've decided that this work should continue. We put the group together to arrive at a quick conclusion on the main points and we have published these results and will need to take a closer look at these details. The import is being checked in real time but also back in time when it is indicated. It is also asked how to react to the toll authorities and the Ministry because they have registered a product for import into the wrong toll classes. We've dealt very strongly with that. There was a particular case that involved cheese, which I think we should just call pizzasta, which came up to the country in the last year, where customs were originally considered to be the custom. However, according to the tip and the closer examination, it was concluded that the product was a product of its own milk product and belongs to such a toll class. We have traced the date line of the hearing to the council, but to make a long story short, the investigation ended with a new agency published in the Ministry of Economic Affairs to cut the knot and decide that the product should be used dairy but do not have as a sign of it coming from plant plants, even if it was mixed with the cheese. Of course, in this context, there is reason to say that it can be harmful when a backup enters the land of the wrong toll. It can impair a competitive attitude. It should be noted that the state will be of income, but when it comes to deciding the social profile in which we live, we do not allow the decision of who the customs might become but simply want to get the right results on the basis of the international guidelines we have committed to follow. In this particular example, there was some doubt, but a closer look was needed to reach the right conclusion. In this context, it is difficult to argue that the system was abused when the customs had an opinion that the product should be held at home, where it was classified, and after the release of a new advertisement, a change of attitude should have taken over. It has only been asked about the competitive stand, and I agree with a saying that if you don't have the protection, the national producers who rely on the protection of customs. It can harm a very domestic competitive position and anything that was pointed out about greatness in other countries. It also involves a wide range of support systems and subsidies that affect import prices in Iceland and that can emancipate competitiveness. In Iceland, the government's support of its manufacturers is rarely sufficient to make a decision without customs. But in Iceland customs really live only today on food. There are many things that are put on the schedule that are difficult to get over in a short answer, but I just want to make sure that we want to take a firm stand for this matter. We'll start a new group to go down into the stitches of the results of the service group that returned the report to me last week and was published today. I'd like to give some of the words that fell here with the advert because, of course, it's not that there's not a collection of tolls here in accordance with the rules, but it may be that immigrants give the wrong import or toll number. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This leads to wrong customs, where customs authorities have rich sources to go back a long way and put pressure on them when appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u25	Mr. President. Recently, we have thought about what to do. The Commission and the review board, on the other hand. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir inkhorn on how to import cheese, mozzarella cheese, or herbal cheese after an incident. I hope I'm not breaking my confidence, even though I say that things there seem to be incontrovertible and strange. In general, for business rules, customs, taxes, or other fees, the rules of the game need to be simple, reasonable, and transparent. Those rules need to be ignored. It is not to be profited, but to profit. Unfortunately, there may be a lack of compromise in Icelandic business practices. We still have quite a bit of a country to see here in general. In general, I think the people understand the importance of agriculture, would like to see here the vigorous and progressive food production throughout the country, especially on green grounds, in which it is guided by what was said so well in the Land the other day by a fine flock: Farmers are the guardians of the country. But are customs restrictions the right way to support Icelandic agriculture? I have serious doubts about it, and it seems to me that the examples prove the opposite. I think that a simple and transparent funding system is a much more efficient and more powerful way to sustain viable and viable agriculture. I still believe that full involvement in the European Union is a means by which farmers must start to examine seriously rather than allow guardians to assume that they are not to be examined.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u26	President. A discussion about cheese substitutes is not new in Icelandic politics. I think it's the highest. The president of the General Assembly served as a agricultural minister when a talk on cheeses on pizzas came up in 1991. But that is why it is our political responsibility to be especially alert to this matter, knowing that many things, especially here, may not be needed in other ways. I've said it here and anywhere, both in my current job and before I've been doing it, that although Iceland is one of a few countries in the world that doesn't consider to be valuable, all countries do. They sit down and negotiate tollovata, negotiate import and export, and think about this as valuable. I have felt that this was only a shortage of foreign policy in Iceland in the last few years and decades, just because it affects the state of the country. When it comes to customs and business contracts we make, it is hoped that they will, in fact, have the importance they are expected to have if they are not properly monitored if they are not anointed. Therefore, I am glad that the basis for this situation should be considered. I'm glad we're looking at customs, and I feel that the conclusion is that if something is missing, money, what is human, or what it is, we should resolve to improve the situation there. We need to get these issues into the 21st century so that we are not filling out the data containing spherical pens on paper and so are the rules for today that even today, you can just revise the data back 60 days, but electronically much longer. It is obvious that the surveillance and the environment around us need to be ensured much better, and it's good that we are entering the 21st century.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u27	A respectable president. I wondered if there are many views available when the question arises: Is it okay for people to enter the wrong toll number? Of course, it is not okay. Of course it should be investigated, and as the highest. A minister went over them is rich sources from the customs authorities to investigate this far back in time. The political question that I rather feel is, How do we want to implement this arrangement and that is a good arrangement to keep agriculture active in our country? If we view the matter as national security and toll protection as part of it, I think we should start asking if there are other ways, such as foundation support for farmers or something like that. If the question is merely to protect business interests, I feel that personal customs are not acceptable in general, regardless of what trade may be involved. If we consider this a national security issue that I do, I feel that we should look beyond providing financial support to the price of the product itself. Because it is not just the people who buy the meat that benefits the national security, it is all the people, whether they eat the meat or not. Although they never eat meat, they benefit from national production, i.e. when it comes to national security. I wish that instead of wondering what to customs, and how much, we would think of solutions that would not involve commercial restrictions, though, of course, that we could meet this frequently called national security court. Finally, I'd like to mention that wanting to cancel customs or reduce customs or tolls or to-do doesn't mean that you're against agriculture in Iceland. I want to repeat those words, although it is not clear whether we will ever go to the end of the European Union, I feel that farmers must have only a more open mind for other solutions than those who have been suggested so far. That's the political question, Mr. Honorable President. As for the fact that crime should be watched and informed about it, I think we all agree on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u28	A respectable president. The person standing here would like to send a clear message that the law will not be tolerated. Some claim that this is a failure to negotiate. But how can such expressions be used when moving milk, meat, eggs, and vegetables past the system in order to avoid paying taxes for financial funds? Theizers of the Annexe held that the case was adopted by the Board of Directors and Observers. The committee hasn't finished her coverage yet. The work of the Committee and the Ministry has already confirmed that there is good reason to consider these issues further, and it is in the best interests of all tolls. A memo delivered by the National Farmers Association of Iceland reported that in 2019 a total of 299 tons of mozzarella were delivered with added palm oil. Suspects woke up that this might be a product of plant cheese. As a result, MS requested a binding rate for the tax on two specific products. The Ministry of Economics has confirmed that this mozzarella is supposed to carry toll. The situation is now that the tax authorities have not begun to lay tolls on this product, after months. In August 48 tons of this material was imported. To make a long story short, the import of plant cheese is still dozens of tons. In July 2020, 32 tons were imported, etc. I don't have time to list all of this, but somehow I feel that governments have responded too late. I heard you were at the highest. The secretary of finance said that a new staff should review the results of a previous service group. Is this not something that you can take harder on and get the job done much faster? The budget will be made up of large sums of money for this reason, and we are putting jobs in this country at great risk by handing it up so silvery.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u29	Mr. President. I think the basic question here is competition and how we contribute to a natural, healthy environment. Of course, she needs the rules, but she also needs the projects. Of course, there are restrictions on domestic production and consumers, all of us. These are serious offenses. I'd like to put this into context with other aspects of the surveillance we've been criticizing here and where we know the reality. There are, for example. tax fraud. There seems to be a lack of surveillance. That's where we have the data, where we have the reports, but it's not as good as being followed. That's what we need for the talismans. This is about the taxes. I would say that the fact that we are on a gray list is related to this subject too. I hope that the debate we have today regarding competition and its natural setting will not lead to some jumping onto the boat that the consumers should be tightened by reducing their product selection, reducing import. If that were to happen, it would be a bad result of the situation. The aim must be to ensure that national products can be equal in the market, and consumers will not pay if this has been done badly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Jónsson Sigurður this discussion of customs. The most surprising thing about this is that the products are toll provided on certain national toll numbers, then toll provided into the country on other customs numbers. Why are things so complicated? I just can't get it. At the same time, we have the agricultural system and these customs, and it's our job at a council, and it's sort of incomprehensible. I'm kind of against customs, but I'm far from thinking that we should tear down the walls we've set to enter the EU. There we can build larger walls. Why have you taken toll cigars with imported cheese and flaunted them as vegetable cheeses and cheese substitutes? I don't get it. I don't like cheese. I don't think anyone will like it, and it's totally incomprehensible to me that we can be arguing about such simple things that are supposed to be very simple and that I trust farmers and consumers perfectly to make sure things are all right. We do not have to create such complex systems as agriculture and customs. It's our job, and we're just supposed to make sure it's simplified, have it as simple as possible, and trust those who are making food in Iceland, and give them a chance to develop their product, and we don't have to worry about it because they don't do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u31	Mr. President. We're actually talking about some really weird shit. In the country, agricultural products are exported, apparently by the right rules, the right laws, or the agreements by methods that seem to be long - informed. The authorities have known about this for quite some time, but nothing happens. What is it? We wouldn't be talking about this here if there was some kind of control here. The authorities have known about these months, and even those who have been dying together, which is, in fact, the most serious part of the case. You can just say, "The computer says no." That there is little to be done, and the wrong thing will go on. It's a bad case for a government fund that loses a lot of income. The problem is bad for farmers who produce healthy agricultural products. The import is bad for non-combat competitors. The problem is particularly bad for those working on infectious diseases that do not have a full view of the import products. The problem, however, is particularly bad for the domestic production that is unfair. Then it hurts for honest immigrants too. Mr. President. It has to be admitted that it has been half of awry to monitor the council members who write insulting articles and transactions on the subject. Because who are we in charge of? Is that not what they themselves are? And even Ministers are writing on what to do. Mr. President. Who's in charge? Is it not just the Ministers to rule and rule? To be honest, this case would be the most amusing if it were not for how serious it is. A year ago, at the council, we are talking about the extensive and long-lasting counter measures of importing non-pregnant meat with the goal of trusting all national monitoring and planning measures to prevent transmission of infectious diseases through this import. This issue is unmistakably proof that there is a great need to trust the border in terms of this import. Obviously, they're open and monitors in pieces. And unfortunately, the situation reflects the state of agriculture in the Council of Control. We demand clear answers and immediate action.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u32	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the first thing. the advocate of this discussion for his initiative and the highest. The secretary of the budget for his answers made it clear how serious the matter is. So I've got a lot of criticism that it's just being driven and done. A respectable president. I'd like to recall in the beginning that Iceland runs a very liberal business policy. In this country, the customs file is one of the world's most liberal people and, according to the WTO list, we're number eight for the countries that add to the toll number. In Iceland, about 90% of the toll files are toll free, or actually 94.5%. The next country that follows is Norway with about 90%. The EU has a similar share of 26%. So those who want to look there will want to wall us into a customs alliance, although at the same time they intend to introduce freedom here. It is as if the Greek Gospels were read by the apostle Paul to insist on the freedom of the Christian congregation in the public talk. That's what I want to leave in this discussion. I just want to stress that the customs protection, the implementation of customs agreements and the few toll numbers that we've yet put on, according to customs, are about very few Icelandic agriculture. I say little because relatively few livestock have adequate employment conditions here compared to the best manufacturing countries in the world. We've been doing this for the reason we want to keep these farms in place. Therefore, those who abuse this position violate the rules, not only against the freedom of business but also on the policy of holding on to Icelandic agriculture. Therefore, they should not be missed. I just want to remind you that in February, when a group of open agreements became aware that we were breaking those rules, he sent in his opinion a recommendation to handle this. [[The president calls.]] I'm glad there's something specific about the management system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u33	Mr. President. The cohesion stresses strengthening the agricultural environment, ensuring the management of farmers, and providing agrienvironment schemes to produce economic and eco-friendly quality products. We in the United States believe that a radical review of agricultural support systems with the interest of farmers and consumers in the foregrounds is needed. We want a powerful agriculture that will strengthen our country's settlements. We want to increase the freedom of farmers and increase innovations with greener emphasis so that farmers can survive decent benefits. We also want a system that serves consumers. The interests of consumers and farmers should go together. Tolls, however, are not the way to reach those goals. The agricultural route increases prices, reduces innovation and is intended to harness the market laws. A better way to support agriculture and spread abroad is by direct payment and green strength. We should look to the European Union on these topics and the experience of farmers and build up their strengthening systems. But we still live in this system and have to work within it for now. And toll fraud is against the law. Here's where we'll discuss violations of foreign trade agreements. Everyone has to go to contracts and respect the rules. Otherwise, the competitive attitude of those who do what is right becomes worse than those who cheat. The conquistadors gain illegally competitive advantage. A fundamental requirement for fair competition is that everyone, like others, conforms to the law of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u34	Mr. President. The customs agreements made with the EU in 2015 were made in close collaboration with farmers in the country. We left greens strongly opposed the agreements and thought that it was too much for us to cover customs of imported agricultural products with the expectation that Icelandic producers could get a large amount of agricultural equipment into a European market that has not been established. The General has agreed to the food safety and protection programme. That plan included a lot of work on the part of a professional committee. One of the operations was to review the development of protection. It is important to examine how customs protection has deteriorated in recent years and how it affects agriculture, habitat, work, and food security. Farmers cannot compete for import if they are being cheated. The rules of conduct must be valid and followed. A more powerful European agriculture has never been than when all nations place great emphasis on food security and healthy food that comes from a sustainable environment, such as we live here and is produced in the vicinity of the environment. This is of importance to consumers and is the benefit of consumers, instead of transporting food over a long way through related climate pollution. There must be a quick response and a clear answer to whether customs contracts are being interrupted. We'd like to cover the Icelandic agriculture with the number of secondary jobs all over the country. An effort to select Icelandic products is now being made, and in these difficult times it is never more urgent to protect and increase the number of jobs that have been carried out by the Icelandic agriculture. We're supposed to join up to protect Icelandic agriculture, and we're not going to put up with this kind of cheating that seems to be going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u35	A respectable president. I have been listening to talks and looking for someone to disagree, since we are at the General for communication. There does not seem to be much disagreement about keeping laws and keeping them under surveillance. Perhaps the differences are mainly about how well the authorities are doing in this regard. That's an interesting point. Of course, authorities say they're doing the other thing. Some opposers say that they are not doing enough. All right. It remains that the system we live in requires heavy monitoring. I was thinking after a talk. 8th yrs S.H., Gauti Hjaltason, who believed that they needed to trust the border and evidently called it glavoking. I don't completely agree with that diagnosis. I would say that the more open we can keep the border without trouble, the better because our freedom is good. Why don't we have them wide open? Because it affects our ability to do so, e.g. To collect tolls. This means that the freedoms that we enjoy, freedom of business, and in other cases and other forms of travel inhibition often depend on us trying to protect some system we have set up. When the systems are in order for them to require unsuspecting control of the authorities, we are to rebuild them systems, even on their own. But we live in what we live in. This is a customs system, and it certainly has other negative factors, to form the market's accelerator. If consumers want e.g. give up meat or dairy products or something, change their behavior somehow in order to change the world as it is hopefully becoming popular, have such actions of the civilian in the presence of market problems. But it is true that earlier, the cheaters gain unsurpassed competitive motives, and I wondered if, if we all agree to do better for this observation, we cannot agree, too, that we should think of other ways too. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u36	A respectable president. This discussion is good but a little strange, and it sounds like we're not all on the same page yet, much as it is today. I would like to make one important point that has been presented today: There is nothing to do with the EU, whether we are inside or outside the EU or how all of it all is, whether the customs are okay or not. What we have to do is live by contracts. We're supposed to record goods correctly and apply what is suggested. Not to fuck around and do anything else that's gonna bite us all, the community. We all know that states in the European Union are paying their product, protecting their agriculture, that's just the way it is. And not just countries in the European Union but most countries in the world. Let's get this straight. Icelandic farmers compete with large farms in the European Economic Area. I believe that competition is good, but it must be given correctly. Icelandic farmers are often competing with products that are protected by hairs in the manufacturing land as well as by customs protection. It must be ensured that the products brought here from the European Economic Area have the agreed customs. Again: This is a key point in this matter, and so let us take along after today's discussion. But then you also ask yourself regarding the food surveillance: " How can the wholesome agricultural products being transported to the country be monitored when these registrations do not appear to be better than they are? What is the connection between food control and customs? It has been said that as many as 30 tons of eggs were transported from Denmark to Iceland. [[The president calls.]] In the media, it has been reported that before courts, meat is brought into the bone as meat, while it turns out to be a meat without bones. [[The president calls.]] In many areas, a pot is broken. [[The president calls.]] Governments have started working on this inspection, but we must have faster hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u37	A respectable president. This customs talk is becoming more and more amazing. Let's go to customs fraud. Cheating is all over the system, there is nothing new. But what may be the most odd about the system is this butt - edged system in which a government by the government has added. But it doesn't work. Farmers don't have it that good. They're worse and worse, and as it goes on, it's gonna get tighter. It's a question of farmers and middlemen. There seems to be a huge problem, and then, of course, these customs. But that it's a problem whether meat is on bone or not, I can't understand. [[Take it up: File correct.]] There must be something very strange if it's a very complex matter. If we really want to get a complicated item into the system, I ask: What to-do is it going to be set when a printer starts printing meat? Which toll party does it go? Because we're going to see it. And if we were talking about cheesesy things back there, it's like meat, and that's the future. There's gonna be a problem. Have you thought about that? And I'm asking myself, "Who wants to eat this?" So, what are we eating? If we think we have a big problem now, it's really very simple. All you have to do is revise your customs and make sure they're right. It cannot be complicated, of course, unless someone says that it is just a customs number, and no one knows if it is the right product on which the customs number is on. If so, I ask: Wait, what is the customs doing?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u38	V.E.G. President. This discussion has been very interesting and good in many ways, and many things have been presented that may not be relevant in this discussion because it is purely a customs monitoring process. We can agree or disagree about the politics around the agriculture, but there's only another discussion. This discussion is about customs control. The lack of a charge was very good at the talks of many people, including the highest. Minister. The whole association loses its control over such a thing. Trust in the administration board is broken, as well as trust in governments, in bringing in and keeping up with international agreements, in this case regarding the uniform toll file, according to our membership in the World Health Organization. From the above point of view, there will be a change of customs, tolls itself, and an extra customs check. This is clear because there is much damage. We do not need today to lose money. We must do whatever we can to keep seawater on our current trip, and farmers have taken a sharp object from the table. All this society loses on this and it's just unacceptable. Thank you for the discussion. I hope she can get it moving. I'm the highest. Secretary of finance and the government to handle this matter. Some people have told me that the number of customs workers in the customs department has declined in the last few years. It might say something about why the situation is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u39	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say that changing to customs for agricultural purposes, of course, requires that we show special activities in monitoring and implementation of the agreements. I'm going to say because of what's been said here about this pizza or mozarella-ost, or what this is exactly, that because of the new advertisements we issued at the Ministry of the Summer, they should have been especially monitored from the toll, and by the fact that the advertisement went into effect. That was not done, but it is being done now. It is a filter for this group of subjects, so it is specifically considered, as is true of the opinion that is being carried out whenever a product falls under the tollquathane. It always carries a special precaution, making sure that you are importing the products underneath. Why do nations in general have such protection for agriculture and direct support? And why do nations use customs? Yes, there are many good reasons for doing so. It is not merely a form of revenue that is being done by humans but is directly part of the local agricultural environment. This is usually added directly to agriculture support when protecting the border, when access to the market is more readily available. Why are customs there, or how can they be applied? Yes, they are, as I say, part of the food production work, but in this way we support the agriculture to provide food security. We are leveling the competitive position of farmers in the north who are working here under these difficult conditions when providing food for those in other countries. We save a currency by supporting the agriculture. We'll increase the value of the country. We create by doing this work and can be very proud of the productions that take place in the country. This will improve land use, strengthen the country and not forget aspects such as sustainableity and our contribution to climate. We can make a big difference by encouraging domestic vegetable production and other productions instead of by moving over half the world a product that can be produced here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Finally, it is export interests. We can use customs to demand access to our export products in other countries. [[The president calls.]] So there are many views. I want to thank you for this fine discussion, thank you for the patience of the president, and I think this discussion will continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u40	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize rural records that are not available to strike. Forms that the bill was made up of the EU's collective agreements and Iceland's Work Programme Association on a total of 17 partners signed on January 16 of this year. and was later approved by votes. They had a special package of the bill with the above agreements. The bill suggests that each community should provide a list of jobs at the local community as a warrant for a strike, under union law, and at work disputes, it is not possible. This includes a list of jobs in the local community in the most necessary health and safety services for the population of the community, so that life and health are not threatened despite the work of members of the union who negotiate on the basis of union laws and labour agreements. It is suggested that controversies, which are not resolved by agreement, will be settled for a social gathering that will address differences. If the bill of the law is assumed to complete each unit's completion of all the requested jobs within one month of the implementation of the law. It is important to think specifically that the files this bill allows rural society to publish work as a work permit on the basis of a law on union unions and job conflicts do not exist, are comparable to the files that rural society already published on jobs that warrant loss according to government law. A respectable president. This bill is working in good cooperation with the European Union and Iceland's Personnel Association, which reached an agreement on the topic of the bill with the contract table earlier this year. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u41	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to change the criminal expeditation Act and other criminal assistance, No. 13/1984. The elements of the bill are requiring adjustments in legal requirements to conform to modern criminal rights and the order of the prosecution and to speed up the trial by simplifying the process and making it more efficient and strengthening international commitments at the level of mutual criminal assistance. In this respect, the law of criminal excommunication goes on less than a law on criminal treatment, in the 2nd suit. Section 15. it is only permitted to determine a person in custody for a maximum of three weeks at the same time, if necessary, and must therefore be updated in accordance with similar laws on the treatment of the criminal. Is this in line with 2 st. Act on criminal treatment and the law of arrests and deliverers to and from Iceland for criminal action, on the basis of warrants of arrest, No. 51/2016, which applies to the delivery of human beings between Iceland and EU member countries and between Iceland and other Norwegian countries, the European arrest ships as they are called. It is suggested that 2 mg/m2 be administered. 18th par. The law shall be changed in that the decision of forced action against those who claim to be delivered should be no longer than 30 days after the decision of the exodus has been finally confirmed by the court, but not after the Ministry decides as by the current law. Experience has shown that treatment in the treatment of exuberance is longer than 30 days due to both the right and the legal rights to administer the Ministry's decision under courts and that the pressures of the legal system today, 2020, are considerably more than in 1984 when the law went into effect. The law's judicial hearings and their record are not entirely in harmony with the modern prosecution. An enforcing law assumes that a minister will make his final decision on whether to obtain legal assistance from a foreign state. So, according to local law, a minister is involved in the extracurricular investigations. The law on criminal excommunication and other criminal aid went into effect in 1984, for the separation of the court and the prosecution, by the law on the treatment of official cases in 1991. How shocking it is, then, that the law still determines the rights of the past century and changes that need! As a result, the procedure required by the law was removed, in order that a minister would not make a final decision as to whether a foreign court request was to be carried out, but a federal prosecutor. It had been a long period of time or until March. But on March 26, 2000, the bill is also given two decrees of the National Court. on No. 158 and 159/2020. Interpretations are that the prosecution made two ocial requirements based on the court's request that the court order the execution of bank releases in the cause of a trial in Austria. A district judgment separated from years of tradition and reasoned that their treatments were not in accordance with law, since the decision of the Minister of Justice was not to comply with the request of foreign governments. The National Court confirmed the decision of the district. This shift from years of tradition has led to a delay in the treatment of legal requests that violates the principle of speech speed guaranteed by 70 C.E. The constitution and 6. European Convention of Human Rights. In order to improve the history of a more efficient court request, and thus a higher court order is suggested that institutions within the legal system be able to send legal requests to one another, without the presence of a justice minister. Is this change also part of a validation of the 2nd European Parliamentary Convention on mutual support from April 20, 1959, but in Article 4. The book allows court requests to be passed directly between proper legal systems without the access of judicial hearings. Hide changes in the law as a result of the support of international commitments. It is then suggested that the law be added to a court request, including a court request. rejection if it is realized that it cannot be dealt with, such as if a minor offense or the investigation is likely to result in excessive effort and cost. This change is in accordance with 4 mg. 52. g. law on criminal treatment and aims to prevent minor cases from backing more important interests. That's 3rd saying. Twenty-two. The current legislation assumes that it is only allowed to grant a request that it is proved to be for a decision on the compression procedures that are in accordance with national legislation. It is impossible to fulfill in most cases and therefore suggest that it be removed from the law. For example, the law allows a foreign court to determine that a company or an institution in Iceland is obliged to provide data to the Icelandic government or information in the interest of a criminal case. Such a decision does not have a legal value in this country, so it is impossible to demand of foreign governments that such a ruling or a decision be accompanied by a request for legal assistance. In preparing a bill of this one, they included consultations with the district attorney. It is suggested that the bill be obtained already. A respectable president. I have now explained the key points of the bill and suggested that the case be followed by this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u42	President. I hereby recommend a bill on Article 226, case No. 224. It is a bill to correct the change in agricultural products, No. 99/1993, which covers the working conditions of the manufacturers of the horticultural products. The bill is written at the Department of Professional Road and Development. Its main objective is to agree on the change in contract on the conditions of the manufacturer's gardening products signed on May 14, 2020. The meeting procedure is part of the revision of the Convention on February 19, 2016, and it was signed, including with a note of the approval of the Generals for needed legal adjustments. The objective of the agreement is, among other things, to promote development and innovation in gardening, with emphasis on climate action. At the next revision of the Treaty, conducted in 2020, the aim is to increase the production of Icelandic vegetables by 25%, compared to the average production of 2017/02019 years, including to increase the market share of national production. It should be noted that growing funds will be placed in the garden agreement of 200 million dollars. K. every year. They will, in fact,. The use of direct repairs due to electrical purchases, climate action, development projects, and a greater variety of vegetables in this country. There is also the agreement with a new category, bone payment due to culture of vegetables other than grapples, paprits, and tomatoes. The payments begin immediately this year. Special agricultural allowances are produced for the breeding of vegetables and crops for human consumption. It is, in fact, there. to discuss all the food products that grow below the ground, such as Tattoos, tails, carrots, turnips, and other similar products. Products cultivated above the earth, such as cabbages, cabbages, cabbages, and similar products, can also enjoy agricultural crops, where the amount for each cultivated acres will be higher, with a considerably higher cost of production than with the others. The production of agricultural farming will be about 70 billion. K. every year. In addition, the contract guarantees development funds for gardening projects. Its objective is to support education, studies, guidance services, and development in gardening, as well as to provide additional contributions to adapt to the organic manufacturing process in gardening. The objective is to assist manufacturers in meeting the requirements of organic farming production and to increase the availability of such products on the domestic market. The bill suggests changes in agreement with an earlier agreement. 2nd is suggested. 58. g. The law changes its requirements for direct payment due to the distribution and transport costs of electricity instead of subsidies. The management of electrical subsidies will thus be changed in a way that guarantees bone payment by means of a description instead of subsidies. This is to contribute to the more practical conditions in this article. As considered above, the primary objective of the bill is to agree on the change in the labour conditions of the manufacturer's plants' products, signed on May 14 of this year. The changes in the work environment of the manufacturer's plants proposed by the bill are certainly considered to contribute to the development and innovation of industry's gardening in Iceland. A respectable president. With the government's agreement with farmers, there are fundamental changes in gardening work that I believe will greatly enhance the article. The arrangement is, as mentioned earlier, designed to increase the production of Icelandic vegetables by 25% in just three years. Some have said that such goals, as they sometimes say, are quite simple. However, when we politicians have the wisdom to create employment clearly and in my opinion, it is quite realistic to set goals of the kind. By raising the government's annual budget for the contract from 660 million. K. of about 860 million. By the way we use our will to promote Icelandic gardening. We already see that this article has begun to build up for the future and has moved forward. I had a recent opportunity to visit several gardeners and to see firsthand the tremendous structure there, and I am delighted to find the tremendous feeling and optimism that exist in this article. I believe that after three years, we will set an even more ambitious goal of reviewing the agreement. I hope that we have the wisdom to go even higher and to make sure that our good and wholesome production is even more possible for the Icelandic consumers. I believe that we are making quick progress in promoting the Icelandic agriculture if the initiative, the developer and the champion of each farmer gets his own pleasure. A respectable president. In the end, I want to mention that the employment and innovation department is trying to set up a database and a level that keeps up with the information on food production in Iceland, including gardening. It is necessary to have an overview of the production, sale and supply in the country, including ritonavir. In addition, such a database increases transparency. Information there will reflect the supply of domestic gardening products and will be updated at regular intervals within each year. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and I'd like to refer to the report that comes with it. It will give us a detailed discussion of its contents. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. and the highest. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u43	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. 1st for the fine passage of this matter. paritaprevir This is where Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir offered the case yesterday when she gave the case, in a material way over the big score of the bill to the administrative law available here. There is one word that she used that I only want to dwell on because it is called so much about the work that this document is based on. There's a status document now. The bill, as it is suggested today, is a document as it stood after the handling of the Council's administration and monitoring committee in the winter of 2012-2013. The foundation is laid by the European Commission's Council, and above it has been based on changes in the administrative and monitoring committees of that time, indicators of the Venice Committee, and additional improvements. This winter, an even better development has to be built on top of it. I mention this because the Board of Directors always worked with the address box, I calculate that the initial documents were about ten. It was one of the strengths of the work in the Council of Government, that a text was proposed, an idea of new chapters, or branches, but the committees heard of that seminar did not hesitate to take such articles back into consideration, even to be tolerated after a discussion in the council or extracurricular reviews. This was part of what was called the Board of Control of the Work. Always working on a new publication based on what has already been done. It was a novel way to write songs, but it was good because it was very efficient; it produced good work during the brief period of administration. Therefore, it is so appropriate that the status document refers to the bill that we present today, referred to as the 2011 death - dealing governing body. Another strength of counsel that we must not forget is a new approach to compromises. Much was suggested that the council agree with the final outcome, but differences over the way were often open and then settled down at the end of the day. The most clear and accurate example of this is the National Church regulations. The situation in the Council of Government in the summer of 2011 was that there was no clearer part to this arrangement, and it was used to vote for a representative of the Council of Government. Three of them were different compromises, and two were the opposite of the poles, i.e. not content with local constitutions or no church plan. When the first round of the U.S. National Council election was complete, there was no much more to it. There were seven agents who wanted to remove the law completely, eight agents who wanted the conclusion that eventually led to the proposal of a government, to say that the church could be consulted in a general law, and six representatives who suggested that it be a preliminary law to reevaluate the Church's status within a particular period of time. Then, on four terms, there was a winner, the proposal by which a board of governance put itself behind him. It was a suggestion that eight of 25 put in place 1st, but all 25 supported at the start. Then, as it is known, this law was not adopted in a national fee, and there is nothing more to do than to obey it just as it was done on July 7, 2011, when a greater portion of the Constitution agreed on its proposal. I'd also like to mention, and maybe it would be good to review, though, what society has changed for no longer longer than in 2011. The example I'd like to take is 6. The bill that turns to equality. You see, a government council received reviews that encouraged to add a sense of gender as a differential difference in the peer system. This proposal was proposed by part of a government council representative, which was released. There were 12 agents who said no, fewer yes, there was a dwelling, or absence. It was not decisive, but it was typed, so it was not added to the arrangement as a differential difference. This, I think, is more than anything in the history of this case, has come way closer to 2011 than it is 2020. Now we have a law on sexual autonomy, and we're in a very different place when it comes to the rights of gay people, so I imagine that if this legal vote had been committed in this year, there would have been a lot more added sexual consciousness. This law is fun to consider, too, because it was then changed a bit by a management and surveillance committee, and it's something we need to consider at the council now, whether it's a step in the right direction or not. You see, I'm not convinced. Rather than, as a board of laws suggested, there was a list of the key differential factors to be seen, which begin with the words: ▪ All of us are equal to the law, and we will enjoy human rights without discrimination, such as for the sake of...◯ and so are listed there one ten, twelve things, that the board of administration and monitoring committees of the year 2013 changed this in: ◯ Everyone should be equal to the law. No distinction should be made. Let women and men enjoy just as right. It's short and easy, but I wondered if we're losing something by not listing the biggest variables. It is also noted that there is turned away from this sexual expression, which the board of administration deliberately put into these regulations to show that they were all of us, but this has been converted to ◯all shall be of the management and monitoring committee. There was probably a plot of government ahead of its time, but this is something that we need to consider in the legal process that the grammatical male gender can sometimes be impossible. In this case, I think it is. And it is also helpful to note that in the bill, as it is noted today, women and men have the same level of justice, but we have just approved the laws on sexual autonomy, which acknowledge that there are more than two sexes. In no more time than this community has just come to another place. Another factor that has also changed greatly is how public consultation is conducted in general. In 2011 there was no government problem. It was not that people in general were sending reviews on the matter. The Ministry did not announce legal plans, nor did the law specify laws on occasion. Now it has become virtually part of a standard process. However, when it came to the consultation of public members, the Council of Government was at its top. There were over 300 talks, which we might call reviews during the Senate process, many of which influenced the final outcome, and fourth thousand comments were made on the addresses of the box at different times. Well, maybe it's a little hard to compare figures between the ages, but at the time, it was extremely high. Surely today, we would do things differently. What awaits us on a board of administration and monitoring committee is careful to pick up this thread, to revive our consultations with the public in this overall document that has been down since the council let go of the case, 2012 or 2013. Whatever we think of all the efforts that have been made to change the constitution since then, this has been lacking, i.e. This general meeting for the job. And now I'd say that it's quite a time to talk to the public in view of what's obviously happening. The more than 43,000 signatures collected in behalf of the Constitution need not only be talked about, but it can also be viewed as a complete reversal of polls, especially with regard to the youngest group. In MMR, who has studied the minds of people at the administration board, the percentage of 18 to 5,729 years of age who believe that it is very important to complete this project, was from 24% to 46% last year. These are people who are many of the young that they were not active participants in the conversation in 2011, but as the discussion has continued in recent months, they clearly assume the blood for duty. And that is why, and especially, it is wonderful for us to have the opportunity to renew and also bring back the public conversation with this entire document based on a proposal of administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u44	President. Here we will discuss the bill of the Constitution of the Management Board on the change in constitution with the changes made during conquistancy until 2013. Then the case was put in a drawer where it's been since. It has now been drawn up and submitted to a council. It was first done two years ago in costume that it could be submitted immediately, e.g. after the next election in case of power, the groups who want to report it will be immediately finished. This case is ready. The matter is based on the bill of the Council of Government, with adjustments made by the council, some of which were good, some not. It will be after this discussion with the Commission and the Commission, where I will sit with others. There the matter will be handled objectively and professionally. It is one of the priorities to be won. There seems to be a general agreement, at least on the part of the country and the President of Iceland, that this is the basis for a new constitution under the 2012 National Code, the wording used. The Prime Minister has also stated that the changes in the constitution proposed, whether it was done by members of the Parliament, as in this case, or as prime minister himself, need to be treated in a physical way during the council and in a administrative committee. It will be done. Vigdís Finnbogadóttir, former president of Iceland, describes the administrative work that began with the 2010 National Meeting as the most comprehensive and democratic work for the Constitution that history could record. The only way to be sure of the rightfulness of Vigdís's words is to compare how the Constitution is usually changed and how the work was done from 2010 to 2013. It is more democratic to have a national meeting to review the Constitution and ask a group of 950 voters, chosen at random to show the nation's cross-section, what they want to change. What do you want to turn into the constitution? It is more democratic to do so than what is normally done, that few rulers are allowed to decide what to change. It is more democratic to ask a group of 950 people, randomly selected from among all the people of the country, where they meet and discuss what they want to turn into the Constitution. It is more democratic to make a national discovery as to what to change. This was done in 2010. It is more democratic that the council then ship a board of directors, which combines the results of public meetings. It is more democratic than a minister has a committee to implement any proposals of the council. It is more democratic, when the National Assembly was invalidated by the Supreme Court, that the Council appoints them instead of a administrative body that operates in open meetings and accepts public indications. It is more democratic than merely doing as usual and having a committee appointed by the prime minister write in the secret political guidelines. It would still be more democratic if the election had been so that the Supreme Court had not judged them illegally and the people had chosen this administrative council, but since they were not condemned enough democraticly, and followed according to democracy's guidelines, it is democraticly to appoint governmental advisers instead of being appointed by a committee acting secretly in the rules of the games. It is more democratic to appoint governmental advisers who openly work and accept comments from the public. And it is more democratic to ask voters in the advice of national law whether they want a new constitution based on the Council of Governments. That was the expression. And it is more democratic to ask the people of the country for the advice of a national law than to ask voters not at all to do so. It's more democratic to go to the legislature of a national law. Then it is extremely incorrigibly incompetent that a minority of council members, representing a smaller section of the voters, allow themselves to use a filancy to stop work at the most democratic constitution in Iceland's history, and even the world, if we listen to our former president, Vigdís Finnbogadóttir. Then the case could have gone to a binding national law, but it was stopped by the representatives of my voters at the General Assembly. That is the only incorrigibly in this constitution that began in 2010. And now, a clear appeal has been made that they will not be available for their incorrigibly hard work. Now we're taking from the drawer bill of the Council of Government with the changes made by the General, it's going into a administrative and monitoring committee, where all members of Congress and the public can come up and make adjustments, where something needs to be fixed. Some of the changes are for the better, and many agree that they are in the administrative board and others, and they need to stay. If the change is made, as the previous management and monitoring committee limited the public rights, it needs to be opened. So it is possible to do now when the case is addressed to the management and monitoring committee. I encourage those who have enough interest and knowledge of the case to suggest that changes the senators can then make in order to correct the situation and in the sense that the rights of the public are richer, not weaker, in the treatment of the Generals in the matter. Enforcement work may be more democratic than the work done in 20103/42013. She can be democratic, e.g. if they had succeeded in getting the nation to choose a government council. That would have been democratic. But apart from this conference of senators who represented a smaller section of the voters, the Constitution work that began at the 2010 National Conference is the most democratic in Iceland's history. It is time for the General to complete his share in the constitution work that the nation began at the national meeting. The president of Iceland can then put a new constitution into payable national law, if it requires voters, we will receive binding national fees. The nation is and is to be the director. That's why we're on this. I can't see how anyone is going to stop this case from being handled objectively. The president has set it up this way so that it would be neglected to stop it. It sounds to me that the prime minister is at least in favor of things, including the. Hers, are being handled in a administrative and monitoring committee, so I have hopes that this work will be able to bring these matters back from a committee and an objective discussion here at the council. Those who are going to prevent it will again be in the power of my voters to violate the national right to make their opinion of a new constitution. That's not an option. So I end up in a positive, optimistic way, this is the work we're about to start here, and I encourage the public to participate. I would particularly like to thank those who wrote under the declaration to continue and respect the national willingness as expressed in 2012's national pay and raise the case to the point where it is once again so politically important that it will cost them politically very much that they will be able to resist it, especially if their voters want a new constitution. This is important, and I encourage all of the people interested in making adjustments, especially those against the whole case: Make adjustments. Have senators move them. Let's work our business, and then we'll give it back to the country before the next election.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u45	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of national payment on the future of the city of Reykjavík airport. With me there are 24 whales. Six political party members at the proposal, which sounds like: ▪ The General concludes that there will be a national payment to see if the airport and the centre of national and medical flights remain in the Reykjavík Water marshes. The following question will be raised in the National Court: Would you like the airport and the centre of national, educational, and physical flights to remain in the water swamp in Reykjavík until another equally good or better option is ready for use? Yes, or no. The proposal suggests that comparable suggestions have been offered at 145, 146., 148., 149. It is suggested that there be a national agreement on the future of the city's Reykjavík International Airport and that this allows the nation to reveal their thoughts and influence where the airport and the center of the international and hospital flights will be in the predictable future, including the future. with regard to national interests. Inland, citizens of the public interest are covered by safe transport. The location of the airport and the centre of domestic flight are of utmost importance in this context. The airport plays a very important safety role for the public in the country because of a medical and emergency flight, as well as a reserve airport. Then the airport plays a very important role in the national public defense system. In addition to the importance of the safety role of the Reykjavík Air Force, Þorgeir Pálsson, a former airport manager named the role of the NYU airport in the security system of the country where Þorgeir returned to the transport and country administrator in August 2017. The location of the airport has been controversial for some time. Following the trial of the Supreme Court of June 9, 2016, No. 268/2016, was obligatory to close the northeast-south runway of the Reykjavík airport in accordance with the agreement of the then national secretary and mayor in Reykjavík from 2013. Has a secure runway now been closed. Still, there is no room for the future position of the Reykjavík airport and its role as a future transport center. In the main organization in Reykjavík, the airport is expected to depart in stages after 2022, i.e. in 2024. It's a matter of time before the airport actually closes when the north-south track is closed. Reykjavíkurburg is heading for the year 2022. In this regard, you will also need to look for a transport program for 2011-022, adopted by Council No. 48/140, it is assumed that the airport will be in Reykjavík until 2020, although its location will not be clearly established. Along with the 202020/20234 transport program adopted by the Council on June 29, 2020, Iceland's first flight policy was introduced. The aims of this policy include: to promote domestic flights as part of the public transport network of the country. One of the factors involved is to ensure an efficient international flying system that is integrated and on one hand, and to build up the interiors of the international airports with the emphasis on meeting the needs of pilots for a spare airport. This is Egil's airport, Akureyri Airport, and Reykjavík Airfield play a key role. Then it can be noted that in the panorama of a greater part of the European Environment and Transport Committee (EEC) for the preparation of the 2020 2020 2020/20034 transport programme, Reykjavík's airports would be maintained and built up to carry out the role that he now performs in a safe and adequate manner and that the level of safety and service of the field will not be affected any further than when the new airport has been established and ready for use. It is very important that the nation is given an opportunity to express their thoughts about the principal transport center and therefore influence the final outcome of the situation, which could include: This includes legal implementation of organizational authority, taking into account important interests of the public. Reykjavíkur airports have a wide range of functions in the urban and capital transport areas. The stadium is an indistinguishable center of national flight. It plays a key role. In 2018, some 400,000 passengers traveled in Reykjavík. The number of passengers was drawn by 12.3% during 2019 C.E., when 351,000 passengers crossed the field. However, there is hope for passengers to return to an increasing number, including By means of the air bridge, the Scottish way. By the first week the project began, nearly 800 flights had been booked. The purpose of a part of the trip is to attend urgent medical services in the capital area. Therefore, the airport plays a key role in a medical and emergency flight which has to do with the public's urgent safety concerns. He is unmistakably one of the main links between the region outside the southwest corner of the Land Hospital. Governments have established official health policy that there will be only one high - tech hospital at the Reykjavík Circle Road, near the airport. Thus, transport between airport and hospital is needed to ensure the availability of the public from the region to the hospital. The airport also plays a key role in the linking of the country to public infrastructure and important public institutions, most of which are in the capital area, as well as in public trades and services. The airport is also an important center of educational, surveillance and search and rescue flights and an important reserve airport for the Cheflavour Airport. At that time, the airport has an ever greater role in the development of ever-growing tourism, and there are opportunities to spread more of the country through the airport. All of the above factors, as well as general economy resulting from internal flying strength, including with respect to environmental and security factors, the importance and nature of the airport being in the Hydromese so that it can properly function so that all the people of the country have access to the capital. A 2014 Internal Ministry report on a social analysis of the future of domestic flights shows that there is likely to be a significant reduction in national planning flights and that it will not even be acceptable from Reykjavík, e.g. To Keflavík Airport. Therefore, it is essential for effective domestic flights in Iceland to have the centre of national flights in Reykjavík and also in close proximity to the service of the country to its capital. The report also shows that domestic flight is a national interest and the economic benefits of this up to 40 years are about 70 billion dollars, worth 2013. In the opinion of the General Assembly that a public and secret national agreement should be carried out on a certain matter or legislation is under the law on the implementation of national regulations, No. 91/2010, and the conclusion is such a vote from the counselor. All reasonable evidence leads to maintaining the field and the centre of the interior antics in the Hydromosis. If there is a change, it is necessary for the entire nation to arrive at that decision in a direct and democratic manner. Thus, in the treatment of the case at the 149th legislature, a environmental and transport committee was referred to as a review. The committee received 21 reviews. A greater part of the rural community and the community of members who submitted a review supported the proposal that all the people of the country could have an opinion of the future of the city's Reykjavík airport. The city of Reykjavík was therefore opposed. A report by the Icelandic professional pilots stated that there is good reason for such national pay. Reykjavíkur Airport would be a means of transportation that served all the inhabitants of the country. Then, in the joint review of the Management Board of Icelandic pilots and the FIA Security Committee, it was stated that a national agreement for the future of Reykjavík International Airport was national, not to be taken into account in the city of Reykjavík, especially in view of the fact that the State was the owner of a greater part of the country under the airport. Then it would be important as a spare airport out of economic and environmental conditions, where reserves would be considerably reduced if used as reserve airports. Geographically, the Watermelon would be the best location for airports in the capital area, considering the public institutions and the Hospital. Therefore, 25 members of the European Parliament believe that there is a great need for a national agreement on this urgent transport and security issue to be carried out. That's when I've finished going through the report on the case and I'd like to use the few minutes I have left to go through some individual points. I'd like to start by talking about a medical flight. During the last 20 years, I have seen a tremendous increase in their number, and according to the latest information I have in 2019 - I am referring to the number of ambulances in my country - during the last year, 848 patients were taken in a medical flight within the country of 770 flights. Thus, there are more than two patients a day who are moved to the aid fly and, in fact, are continuing to approach the average third. The numbers have been in this range for three years, 800-◯850 patients per year. By the turn of the century, when the medical flight started in the picture we know today, it was now more than 200 flights but is now about 800. Here, too, it may be proper to assume that the Land Guard's helicopters are also in a medical flight, preferably next to the city. Approximately 15% of the total is transported by helicopters to hospital flights, while 85% is transported in medical planes. If you search the Internet, you can find some articles on this. I've mentioned in another field here at the council that we need to discuss the security issues in a large context, last with a request for infrastructure and national security approved earlier today. This is clearly one of the infrastructure that we here in Iceland need to secure as national security, and we can learn more about it. Then I'm talking about the security interest of the returning people, e.g. to power systems, communications systems, and transport. I have mentioned the record of Þorgeir, Pálsson's son of 2017, who is involved in the security role of the Reykjavík airport and has also pointed out in this discussion how neighboring nations deal with their national security issues. I have, for example. National legislation, such as Sweden, should be referred to as the term "riksinterae" which refers to the most important structures in Sweden, for example. under this term, there are 30 of the 100 airports in Sweden involved in the national security of their country. Similar laws are found in Norway, Denmark, Britain, and the Netherlands. There are those countries that I've most considered in this context. In northern Europe, this legislation has existed in the last 30, 40, 50 years. We are expected to receive a report on the subject following the request adopted last year but repeated today. Perhaps some change of viewpoint has been made after the Adventist storm in December, perhaps a greater understanding of this security problem, and what needs to be strengthened and maintained. We've been having a lot of trouble with these matters, as I mentioned in the Senate work yesterday. Regarding the electrical power system, we are strengthening the diffuser, Rark, more and more electrical cables are being placed in the ground, and we are strengthening the backup power in the distance. So there's plenty to take. But the time of this first talk is over, Mr. President, and I wish to make a second talk afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u46	A respectable president. One practitioner question. Suppose the question was, just to make this a general question: Do you want an airport and a center of national flights and hospital flights to be in the Washing Land? That's why it could be in Akureyri or Egls, it doesn't matter. Suppose, though, that the question was, " Should I really move the airport to the Washausun and that the decision to make a national payment is yes, that is, what should be done? ' Is it not true, then, that the local community still has to go through the whole planning process and that even 20% of its population can call for a local vote on whether such a change should occur and refuse to take over the airport, e.g. In hell's trial? Could not the inhabitants of the community proposed to have the airport simply vote and say no, and that would end the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u47	Mr. President. Here's a matter of what may be a serious problem, which I just entered earlier, about security and national security issues in Iceland. If we look at the neighboring countries, whether Sweden, Norway, Britain, or Holland, that is exactly where we fit to protect the most important structures in our country. Isn't it true today that individual communities, projects, omissions, and others have delayed security or have made safety secure? We know the transport systems of electricity, roads, airports. Isn't this just part of what we're doing here in Iceland is cooking groundwood and defending them in terms of national security? Is it normal for individual societies to go against society's overall security? In Iceland there are 69 societies, or how many are at this point. Is it reasonable that they can do so against the interests of the world? I don't think it's right. I find it normal to consider the largest national security interest in this country, whether connected with the electrical, road, road, road transport system, which could reduce the number of accidents each year, but which has only been closed for decades in individual rural communities. This is one of the major things that we need to consider in our lives and that the neighboring nations have been working with for 30 to 40 years. They most of them had such laws decades ago. We are behind that issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u48	President. I missed a clear answer to that question. I can imagine that the question was that the centre of domestic flight, teaching and medical flights should be in the capital area, nothing necessary where it is now, and nothing necessary in Hassusun, but, of course, since the best location is considered to be according to a number of views. I think, for example. not much of a security problem, or it's a problem that the airport is right next to the downtown, when the planes come flying over here all the time. It is not reassuring to know that the Council is directly subject to flight policy down to Reykjavík. I don't find it very comfortable to think of such things. As a precautionary measure, on a tight block near the airport, I don't necessarily buy it that there's a point that makes it necessary to have an airport so close to urban areas. This prevents other factors, such as. building a hospital near an airport. In general, having a good hospital is a very safe matter, and building it high, not too, is a matter of safety. It simply saves lives to have high hospital buildings, not larger and more hospital buildings. But high buildings are not to be built near airports. It works against each other. We're talking about such distances and conditions being carried by patients, that the last line from airport that the hospital plays the least part during all the travel and all that is appropriate. There are various viewpoints in this regard, and I missed a clear answer to the question. [[The president calls.]] If the question was the one I asked and the answer to would be yes, couldn't society simply say no?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u49	Mr. President. I think I tried to answer that earlier. I was pointing out that this is a national security interest that the whole community, the legal authority, has to deal with. Individual rural societys are not meant to be involved in basic activities. We need to find out that the Landspians are also a general hospital, but then there is expert service. About 10% of the hospital's operations, that's the most difficult thing to do. The rest is a common hospital. We've found our meetings on a budget committee. The land hospital handles the most challenging and challenging matters in medical care; premature infants, heart disease, strokes, head injuries, and the like. That's the biggest way to deal with this. [[Up front.]] Then I'm gonna go for a second. A senator must study what doctors have written and discuss in these matters. Of course, this process is everything. When a serious accident occurs somewhere out of the country, a plane is launched. She may be at the local airport when the patient arrives. It is not that they have just gone to some hospital in the country, and then they have to consider sending a medical flight there. It's not quite that simple. What I feel is that after all these decades, we're in the process we're in, that we can't protect the public security of the community and the people of the country. We're in endless debates. And now after two years in the main organization of Reykjavík, in 2022, it is assumed that the North/Sunway will be closed. [[The president calls.]] That's two years. It all depends on and has nothing to do with what to do or how to win. [[The president calls.]] It is where the Icelandic government is causing us to fail in this matter, whether at the county level or at the legislature, the European Commission. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u50	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u51	President. Here's an old friend. We're gonna go for a second. 1st transporter has had discussions about this case before, which I'm not going to repeat. I have to admit, though, that I was a little surprised when I saw that matter again and said it here. That was suggested last November, 1st. This was done before the State and the city of Reykjavík signed a field contract, which was November 19th. So I came to understand, but it was a little strange that it had not slipped into the conversation that did not occur until January or February of this year. I am even more surprised that there is no more to the suggestion or speech of the party. Senator. In fact, he has given another speech. Hv. A member of the council is offering a proposal to conclude that the following question will be posed to the nation by permission of the president: ▪ Do you know that the airport and the centre of national, educational, and medical flights will remain in Reykjavík until another equally good or better option is ready for use? Potential: Yes or no The agreement that the government and the city of Reykjavík have signed says, by permission of the president: ▪ The EEA agrees that there will be a guarantee of security at the Reykjavík airport during the preparation and development of a new airport, including normal maintenance and implementation of human activities in accordance with the requirements of the General Transport Programme. Based on the fact that Reykjavík's airport can continue to serve properly on national flights until a new airport is ready for use. Which is exactly what it is. A senator wants to ask the people. In fact, it sounds like I'm talking about what I'm talking about. The senators say he will have the airport, I think for a long time, in the depths. But what's the difference between the question and the question? A senator would like to lay before his people and the sentence from his contract? And why doesn't he talk about the deal in his motion?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u52	Mr. President. I'm going to point to 3 mg. Section 5. The agreement made last November between the secretary of transportation and the city council of Reykjavík: In line with 2 mgr, the city of Reggasvík declares its will in order to ensure the needed changes to the main organization of Reykjavík. Section 5. The agreement of this one. This is the article in question. A senator was reading up just before. What has been the will for this year to change the main organization according to this agreement? Well, he hasn't been anyone. There has been nothing to do with the main organization of Reykjavík in this agreement, which was made last November, exactly nothing. In fact, there have been answers to the fact that there will be nothing done to bring this into the main organization. That's the severity of it. Senator. It's been two years that the airport's north/southway will no longer be expected in the main group of Reykjavík. Then the city of Reykjavík will be able to close the field according to the main organization - or that way, it will be automatically shut down. In the main organization in Reykjavík, it is expected that after four years, in 2024, the field will be closed. Therefore, the agreement made last November between the secretary of transportation and the mayor must be absolutely key, as I read from 3 mgr. 5. ., that city adapts to this process so that it is set up in the city's organizational arrangements for its main organization and disorganization. A year after the agreement is written, there are no ideas in the city of Reykjavík to respect the agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u53	President. I'm going to try to pray. A senator is showing me the respect to answer questions. I'm not discussing the main organization of Reykjavík, I didn't ask a single word about it. [[Up front.]] V.E.G. President. In case of a moment. A senator's case cannot be better than that, but the question is, Is the structure not built on the sand? Hv. A senator would like to ask the people the question I had read. I asked why. A senator who chooses not to answer me: What is the difference between the question he would like to ask the people - there is not a single word on the main organization, nothing - and what is said in the agreement that has been signed? Why is it that this old ghost always comes up regularly, since an ex-communicator is the leading member of a community planning agency because it suits his ideas, but is not available in other matters? That's a discussion I didn't mean to get into. They discussed the situation. A senator here together for spring. He doesn't have to repeat it. Why is it that in the suggestion, there is not a single word mentioned at all, what is the situation today? Did they just press back at ◯printHow long since last year's? Why is this so? A senator would like to ask them exactly the same question as the city and the ministers of the government, which I and I had. Senator on both sides, have you agreed? There are other meeting songs at the highest level. Ministers have done so far in this government. A senator wants us to be so subject to the nation?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u54	Mr. President. I've already pointed this out. It's actually true, and I've discussed it, that it was a mistake not to put this into the report. But we have an opportunity to do so now. The Environment and Transport Committee has a natural potential for working with it. That's totally normal, if that's the big thing. In the process, I had this unique document from November last year in my sight. This is not important, however, because the agreement is not being respected and is not interested in the greater part of the city, it has been observed in conversation. If there were any interest in it, men would have started work a long time ago, showing that will. There are over 14 months in the year 2022, and that is the key, key, in this case, that it is put into the city's organization. There's the will to do things according to the contract. It's not right. A senator says that this is the only case involved. I've talked about it, first why. A senator entered it here. [[Up front.]] I'm also talking about this on the transport system of electricity, and I've also talked about this in connection with transportation, that we could be national security in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u55	Mr. President. This airport situation is going to be a tough thing to break. If you look at the synoptic decrees here, you can see that this is the area where Iceland's main railway station is, the capital and the capital area are actually dealing with the location of this transport center, this major Iceland railroad station. I'm gonna take part in this discussion, actually saying that I'm not one of the partners to this proposal, but I'm on a environmental and transport committee and I'm very interested in public transportation and flying. I'd like to open a new perspective on this case because things have changed, even in just one, two years, when it comes to air transport, i.e. During technological development, which is where the energy exchange in flight is on. I'm talking about electricity, tweezers and hydrogen planes. I'm talking about planes with some kind of green fuel. The characteristics of all of them are low management costs, and there is much room to reduce air traffic costs. We have low prices on the energy and maintenance of airplanes and other businesses are much simpler. New types of airplanes are on the market, small planes that already fly, electric machines that take two or four men, known as aeroplanes, or airlines, are now being used mainly to drive electricity, and finally 3,970 people, similar to those we know today in the international Air Ice Connect flights. Airbus is developing them. They're a long way from here. Also larger are aircraft that are also hydrogen - powered and more like our traditional jets. What is characteristic of many of these machines, especially the mini machines and the 9◯19 men, even the other 3,35,370 people, is that these are short - track machines. There are machines that need 200,750 feet of roads, 1,200 meters of security, and are designed for domestic flights, we can say, in relatively short distances. A lot of the planes that are now being developed seriously, and even flying, are machines that take off with that kind of engine, then the engines turn around, and they move on. They're called TVTOLs. They've been the ones that usually fire engines, if you can put it that way, but there's this design into electronic machines and stuff like that, so these machines have high hopes. And we're being dragged to freight transport. All of this makes it possible for a pilot pilot to be far smaller than we know today, especially in domestic flights. It must affect our coverage of both flights as public transportation and the pilots we're arguing about. The development of transportation in the capital area. There the energy exchange goes unusually fast, we see record buses and electric buses, the private fleet electrocuted, or tweezed very fast. The so - called city line will be in full force in 15 years, with all its hooks and chariots, which are essentially the main target of electricity. And larger vehicles, machinery, and so on, are still dehydrogen and electrical. What I'm going with this is that this will lead to less greenhouse gas emissions. There were reasons why Reykjavík's airport would have to be removed because of its long ways in the city and what the city's airport and its environment would take a lot of space. Heavy on this argument, the environmental reasoning, reduces slowly, depending on the power, the hydrogen, the green fuel, and the other increasing intensity. Environmental pressures from the city structure, which, yes, is a fact in Reykjavík, are not just from the airport. The argument is based on a particular ideologies that have existed since 1960,1970. We're getting less pressure from the environment. We must be able to include that in the conversation about the airport in Reykjavík. The third thing I'd like to mention is the APR. Hv. Friðbertsson In addition to the new direction and transportation program, Eglurvegurtirsson and Akureyri Airport are expected to be built up both as backup airports and, especially, the Láils airports, which reduce the focus on Reykjavík's airports as well as on airports. The argument that he can't be here because he's big, because he's a backup airport, too. In other words, it can be thought of as smaller but still be as an international airport in my opinion. Insecting airport as a reserve airport is a very special idea because it is basically in the middle of the two airports of Reykjavík and Cheflavík. It is impossible to fit in as a reserve airport for weather conditions because the weather conditions of the Whalesun and Cheflavík are very much like each time. I've never imagined that the argument about the Washingoff Airport, which is very important, so this new flight policy and transport plan changes the focus of a backup airport. To that end, we too can take into consideration. Finally, I'd like to come into the park at the Smokebones. There are four fire - stopped systems, which, as you may know, are beauteous chess that leads from west to east along the length of the peninsula to the region of volcanic eruptions and earthquakes. It's the four systems that have been defined. The second area in the capital is called the Smokey System. Smokeynes is, of course, the area where Smokeyne's sweat is nearby. We often use the word Smokeynes over the peninsula all over, but it's so called the Smokeynes system because it goes on a land called the Atlantic ridge, if you can put it that way. The crackfish goes through lava, and it doesn't end far from the Vombo coast. There is a mighty valley of sail, and there it nears the end of this rift wave. The closest one reaches from the sea in the highlands east of the Grindík and through the Grinch, a Greenyard, and continues toward Helgaflund on Hafnarfjördur. These two crack-ons are next to us in the capital area, as I mentioned. They've both been active in history, the Smokers' Power Power Power Control System in the 13th century, and the other fire - control system that we like to teach at the Grinchyard, some say, was the source of the big quake, which caused a slight upper school here where I stand. We know of the return of quakes and volcanic eruptions in this area, the known sizes that have come in on environmental and natural hazards assessments that we've been considering. Then the question is, I don't need to, in the light of what is now happening, i.e. increased seismic activity, a careful reevaluation of natural habits on the Smokebone Peninsula, and thus the location of the Inspire Airport, if it is contained in the picture? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u56	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying that with what. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, who spoke before me, has to look at this from what we are experiencing these days, by seismic activity, and by television news and shows that during the past 1,000 years, it is necessary to consider the history of fire action on rafts on southern Rhines, where considerable firefulness was practiced some 800 years ago. This may be one of the things that need to be taken care of for the next few years. I was also going to mention green energy exchanges in flight. There are remarkable things happening with considerable momentum now that turn to it. It could simply change much, for the role of a flight to a public transport in Iceland in the future, to have a well - located airport in the capital area. Electric energy, electrical aircraft, and then possibly hydrogen and various greens are being used. It's in the pipes, and they're working a lot on these new energy options. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson mentioned the so - called taxi airplanes, if we were to translate that word into Icelandic, which may be used in short distances and may be sufficient for the Snæfells, for the Civil Fun and only for the South. We've also been seeing significant changes in technology in the last few years, with systems designed, batteries electricity, and machines that could fly up to 400,400 miles [250,400 km] in an internal flight. According to the latest report from Norway and Sweden, it is expected that within ten years, all domestic flights will turn greener energy, whether it would be electrical planes or other green energy options, hydrogen, or anything else. This is exactly the distance in Icelandic domestic flight today. For example, the air line between Akureyri and Reykjavík is 250 miles [250 km], and the air line between Akureyri and Egression is nearly 400 miles [400 km]. The figures are showing that Sweden's energy savings can become about 70% on a mile [6 km]. In Iceland it would be more, since the energy is less expensive in Iceland than in Sweden. It is also showing 50% of savings as compared to the flying machines within the country today. The savings are turning toward both the energy and also the maintenance of machines so that internal flying prices could be significantly reduced by this technology. In the answers given earlier, I only got through the contract that was signed last November and was focusing on what I think is serious, that since that agreement was made less than a year ago, there is no work in the city of Reykjavík to secure the airport in the main city of Reykjavík while going through all these advantages. Then we know that if there's any result of the Whale test, it's a 15-520 year process. Reykjavíkur Airport in Watermelon cannot be in a position to be out of the major organization in the middle of the city for 10 to 20 years. It's an adventure tour that I'm not interested in, and I doubt that many here in this hall are interested in taking such an uncertain journey, that the course actually has no place in the city's organizational affairs while that process begins. That's what I'm at even. calling in the discussion is important. Then I was going to try to enter the 2001 election. - Mr. President. Do I have one speech, or are there just two? - It'll just have to happen in another area where I thought I had five minutes to do it. [[The president calls.]] But I've read about the city council conferences from the beginning, and the election in Reykjavík is interesting. The guidelines that were set there were unrecognized, and I think it is essential that the discussion be followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u57	A respectable president. There's only been talk about safety issues connected to the airport. That discussion is quite remarkable, and of course it is something that we need to keep in mind and finish in a good way. However, the safety has also been linked to the Land Hospital ◯ University hospital. Remember, it took some 20 years after the decision was made to build a new hospital until the new hospital, including the hospital, was finally started. Because the first results from the local selection analysis were not appeared to be appropriate. The results were not what people wanted. The result was: If not somewhere else than in the Fos Soil or where the Landsspite is now, then at least not where the Landspians are now, because access and other challenges are rather complex. There is a safety issue regarding traffic and access to the hospital. So the result was: If not somewhere else but in these two places, more likely in the Fos Soir. There were more tests to go on this, local analysis, etc. This added to the points the committee was to take into account in the local selection analysis. It was to be evaluated at the university and downtown. It's not safe, it's close to the university and downtown. Because this is a university hospital, it is certainly important. But that is not a safe course. This is interesting in the context of the airport talk. The airport's presence is always being used as evidence for a certain safety point, despite the fact that the hospital is now because it is not for safety reasons. It's something important. That's what I came up with. That's what I'm talking about. Friðbertsson A key to building hospitals high rather than wide is to get people in places where they need to go up and down rather than between buildings back and forth, and even up and down hills. Then they don't play two things so well together, like an airport, and a hospital, because you can't build high places near an airport. In fact, they are complaining that the Asian trees have become too high for the amazing airport in the Hydromosis. If the Watermier airport does not tolerate trees of normal height as they grow naturally, we may have a little more problem with the location of this airport than we realize. So I'd like to say that when this matter is being asked in security, it simply doesn't hold a mind, especially when it's spoken of safe and close to the hospital. Generally speaking, I'm very much in favor of a national hearing. Nothing wrong with that. However, there is a need to consider that certain fundamental ideas about independence of rural society, their organizational authority, and the role of national regulations are involved. The question, as it expresses itself in the synonym, simply fails. If the result is yes, no matter what community of this national agreement, you can simply retain a vote on matters relating to your community and just say, "No." The whole nation can't tell any community, no matter what their group, about their organizational affairs. Therefore, it is in the hands of the council and the government to have a conversation with the local government level on the various issues, e.g. Airport location. But after all, the people can just say, "No, this isn't exactly how it works, we don't agree with it like this. " We don't want a town like that, we don't want a town like that, we don't want one. There's a lot of reasons for that, a lot for reasons, which are very frequently used in the talks here at the council on how important it is to have private societies and that their planning and decision-making are respected. In fact, in rural law there is a much higher chance for democracy than for the council where it is a law of government that 20% of the population can simply call for elections, binding elections. There's nothing like that before the council, not until we have a new constitution. In fact, 20% of the population feels quite high. It caught my attention, because it was certainly, as well as well. A traveler entered, a vote in 2001 about the airport in Reykjavík, and more of those who paid a valid vote said that he should leave. The difference was very small. I would have liked more and more conversation about it, and I quite understand that it is complicated when the difference is so small, but the conclusion is the way it was. It may have been a matter of further conversation, and perhaps a longer conversation has been taken about this, and that is why he is finally going so long after the conclusion was concluded. Perhaps that is also why those who wish to keep the airport at the location where it is not collected signatures in Reykjavík do not even try to obtain the 20% signature needed to keep a vote. They could do so if the support for continuing the airport in the Watermelon is so great. I don't understand why they don't try to take the legal course. But I don't see that it was tried unless it was the result of 2001 and then that people didn't want it to be tested again, for the only thing that re-writes a citizen's vote or a national vote is another citizen's vote or a national agreement, whichever is appropriate. With regard to the self-important rights of a community, it is a local election, but a national agreement can never come and plunge into an area that is closer to the community and its own personal rights for rural society. We're part of this team, and we have to respect the preeminent authority of the local community, which makes this question simply impossible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u58	Mr. President. Man's on the run. Hv. A senator was only involved in security, and they are very important in connection with the airport. We're also talking about the national security issue. It has been asked about the location of the Hospital, and the construction of the present location, how to secure a helicopter flight to and from the field. In fact, the directors of the National Guard have written articles, comments, and comments here and there on the issues involved and are not entirely satisfied with how things are being handled. They consider the activity of the airport to be important in the vicinity of the area so that the helicopters at the Gestun can get right to it. It was mentioned when the trees are flown to the Australian side of the island and toward the cut - off ground that the airport workers planted there in 1950 or so. Some 150 trees now surface in the field barrier. It has been possible to respect an agreement made in 2013 regarding these trees and to establish aerospaces and aeroplanes at the Slice Flavor to land toward the archenemy, on that path. These two have not been worked. What has happened recently, however, is that there has been a reduction in flight security at the airport. Because of these 150 trees, the speed limit has gone up to the runway. We need planes to get in there and land on the runway. Then there is serious talk about whether this 150 trees or the inhibitory limit are more important and the speed of the airport traffic. [[The president calls.]] This too can be expressed in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u59	A respectable president. Isn't this just a hell of a good example of the problem of Reykjavík airport? If a 10 - foot - tall tree near the airport makes it less safe at the airport, it is rather an example of the problems of the airport rather than what is outside the airport. 10 meters tall tree. Wow, that's spes. A helicopter for Land Hospital ◯ College Hospital? Yes, the problem is the same there, the problem is the location of the hospital. She's just a mess, a mess. I find it amazing that the current government has just decided to dig down the hospital, considering the whole process that had started and the failings that could easily be identified in that process. We're stuck with this security business, our neighborhood at the university, and the downtown town, which is a scene for the hospital. And it is security issue that the airport is near the hospital but to keep the hospital near the airport must not have hospitals that meet the most stringent security requirements. This isn't working.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u60	Mr. President. Sometimes you wonder at the discussion. Who's talking about a 10 - foot - tall tree? These trees are, for example, trees. Not 10 meters high. [[Up front.]] We just have to study it, go through it materially, and keep it all on guard. By now, the approach limits have increased to the point. It is important in the large context of things whether or not the agreements have been made on this point. The problem in this process is that there is never a way of doing what was agreed on. Imagine that the year 2013 was not allowed to build or expand the air control center in Reykjavík unless an agreement was made in this case. That's how this whole thing has been for all these years, in some bullshit. How much of a problem could it be to take these trees and adjust the approach to the field so that they meet normal ground limits for the use of the field? We can't go far ahead if trees that have come up to the barrier, much more than 10 meters [10 m], so they just say. [[Up front.]] So it's only supposed to be the meeting plans that have been prepared. This is one of the things I mentioned earlier, the deal that was made last November. They are not working by that agreement and finishing the issues involved in that process.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u61	A respectable president. I was referring to the contradictions that appear in these matters when you try to examine the security of more perspectives than those that are narrow - minded. When you get one of these shots, like, "What you're talking about is never realized, then you can point to the conclusion of the population election from 2001. She hasn't been delivered yet. We have a 2012 national law on a new constitution. She hasn't been delivered yet. Isn't there some saying about throwing the first stone or something like that? In this case, we certainly have a democratic resolution of population elections, which are not to be trampled on. So I don't understand that there is something else that can't be said to finish the decision of population elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u62	The president asks why. A senator apologizes for having denied him the occasion earlier, but of course he has the opportunity to participate in the third time as a messenger of the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. That's 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u64	The President will be looking at that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u65	First thing. A senator enters the 2001 Billings, and he does well to read from our meeting projects. There are several conferences from the Council of the City of the First Part 2001 on this matter. I'm just gonna run through it. A meeting report says: A letter is presented to the management group for preparation for the future of Water Hallows and the Place of Reykjavík Airport as well as a suggestion to say: Do you want an airport to be in Watermam after 2016, or do you want the airport to leave Watermam after 2016? Answers: I. The airport will be in Watermight after 2016 II. The airport leaves Watermam after 2016. This was approved by four votes in the city council of Reykjavík. This council meeting will be held in February 2001: The Council oforg agrees, with reference to 5 mg. 104. g. Substitute government law and 19th degree. approved for the administration of Reykjavíkurburg and the city's Summit, in accordance with a vote for the future use of Water Martials and the location of Reykjavík's airport on March 17th. will be binding if at least The 3/4 parts of the voters are involved. At the same time, the city council agrees that the result will be binding, if at least 50% of the voters vote in the same way, even if participation in the vote will be below the limit set in Article 19. An article is followed by the proposal.◯ The 39th part of this Summit says: Council members of Independence Party requested: As a result of the payment of the majority of the city council for a vote on the future of the Aviation Airport in Watermam, we highlight the following: the tie - up call of an airport in the Waterstall until 2016 has already been taken. This decision was made with the approval of the R-list in 1997 of the world's main structure and shared airport in 1999. So the mayor and the R-list are fully responsible for this binding decision that goes on for the next 15 years from now on. A so - called vote, which is really just an observational scan, was set shortly after the mayor signed a license for the integrity of the airport. The vote seems to be the sole thing to do when it comes to throwing dust into the eyes of the citizens and to distract from the responsibility of the R-list on the case. A premeditated survey will not tie the hands of the rulers of the city in 2016. This scan, which costs the taxpayers in Reykjavík less than 30 million dollars, will not change the existing organizational decisions and will only serve the purpose of giving the R-list a false view of democratic practices. Water marshland is an important construction site for the city of Legion and for the development of the city. A decision on the future of the airport and the use of The Watermies will not be made by unwary scans. It is clear that all regional and transport conditions will undergo significant changes over the next 15 years. This development is vital for future decisions on these matters. The government is to make a responsible decision on the future of the airport after careful preparatory work in cooperation with the smokers and the transport authorities, but not in the current way. This scan reflects the mood of people, as it has been done, and there is no chance that it will have any impact on the future of the airport. The individual city council members of the R-list recognize that the results of this investigation will influence the modern - day rebuilding of the field, and it is also claimed that if a clear desire exists in order to travel, it will happen over the next few years. That's wrong. This does not happen with the mayor's single-sided decision. The R-list has made this planned survey a complete charade. Many choices have been made, but now it is decided not to choose for a mile or a half or a half. The R-list's work in this case has outstandingities. What I'm saying and I'm showing up in the city council meetings at this time is that the rules have not been carried out. After the vote, these numbers never stood behind the vote. Game rules had been changed. And then, in the false history of the past, this vote is quoted on false grounds. It's an intimate matter, and it's important to be maintained, especially by forces that always speak of democracy, democracy. There were to be 75% of subjects, that was the ratio. That was 37% of the party.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u66	A respectable president. It was a remarkable reading, I must say, and to inform us of a classical attitude, it seems to me, the independents of democratic elections and thresholds, and other pleasures. That was amazing. This shows that their approach, at least 20 years, is to try to get people and people to make decisions in any way that is always a factor, saying, "No, this is an inspection, etc., instead of trying to get it up to a slightly higher level, more direct democracy. The access thresholds are very difficult to deal with, because they really mean that those sitting at home will pay no-cats, whether they mean it or not. I'll agree with it that the form and the kind of thing this makes it not binding and so forth, but whether this is the result of a survey or anything else, it is still a determined effort to consult citizens in decision-making issues on the local community or even the nation, as is the case with this synonym. I think it's really boring that this kind of language is being made up of, like, a little bit of this thing called democracy, that it's trying to put the access thresholds behind it, that it's spoken down as some kind of attitude and the like. I just think it's very up - to - date on how the debate today with votes and direct democracy is still on the 2001 program.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u67	Mr. President. It was not the Independence Party that established these guidelines for the 2001 election. [[Up front.]] What's the main thing, huh? Senator, are the rules of rules of conduct that appear before elections on how to qualify for the election, that's a good thing. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u68	The speaker in the Sermon on the Mount has become a speaker.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u69	That's what I'm pointing at. I was in part discovering this just for the last 24 hours. I did a job that wasn't necessarily easy, it's kind of hard to get into the city council meeting 20 years ago, online, and I realized it when I started studying. Then we'll see. All the historical opinions of a discussion in Iceland are very different from the reality behind the vote. I'm pointing that out. I want to point 'em, too. A senator says that when me and my associates in the Heart in the Watermelon congregations in 2013, about Reykjavík, there were over 20,000 smokers who signed that document, over 20,000. We're talking about 20% per cent, but there were 28% of Iceland's voters who participated in the telethon of four to five weeks' notice. No advertising to the point or anything, it was very self - fueled, and no one is paid to work on it. I want to keep it up. The fact that there were no rules is the issue of population elections for 2001, which is constantly quoted. That is what needs to be considered. I think people should look over the papers only and see how this case was conducted and how it was handled 20 years ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u70	A respectable president. I'm sorry for the way things are going, but I just got word in my mouth. I specifically stated that I understand the format, I mentioned it before. Even if the decision is not binding, the city council can always make a decision in one way or another, whether it was a vote or not. In the booking, that's what it's all about. A senator read aloud, was a challenge to take a responsible stand, and made decisions, etc. without scan. When the scan called, yes, with much more than that, there is absolutely nothing wrong with taking a responsible position, as if the vote was not even being held, and working to remove the airport. So I don't see any formalities being broken, it wasn't binding past 2016. Okay, no problem. This does not, however, change the general outcome and decision - making whether it was binding or not, whether it was democratic or not. There is no evidence that she was not democratic. Of the signing of the Heart in the Watermelon, it was certainly full of signatures, quite wonderful, but it is signed by the same problem as this council-sounding proposal regarding where the self-sponsored community's authority is. If there were 20% of the voters in Reykjavík that signed, I don't understand why the legal means of government law were not taken, and only take votes as it should be possible, only automatically, if so many signatures are collected. I don't understand why that path had not gone. If it's so easy, why isn't it done?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u71	Mr. President. The heart of the Diper, and my associates and I in that organization viewed this as a national interest. I'd still like to point my tail. For a senator, the reason we were only gathered for four, five weeks in its time was that the comment was being made on the main organization of this era, September 20, 2013. We gave 70,000 signatures on the main structure where each individual was signing a comment on the main structure. By then, democracy was in Reykjavík, so the mayor of Reykjavík said that he was expecting more. The mayor said so on an interview. He thought they were few. It was over 20,000 Ruslíkíkíðins. It's special. I'm just pointing at here in the Lady Allellis program of the People's election, which is constantly quoted in public speech. What most of the city council today always points to is this election. No matter what. A senator says that the mayor can decide for himself and make this as she pleases, then these were the rules of the game, there were some guidelines for a certain number of binding votes, including half the number of them. [[Up front.]] The rules are set for 75% of the voters, and there are many fewer to play. It may well be because some saw the game rules and thought: " I just don't show up, then I'm less likely. You can think that way. It's just the rules of rules, so you're affecting the overall vote. Of those who chose at that time, there were 37% voters, 2.5% voted invalid or wealth, 49% wanted the airport to go, and 48% wanted it to stay. It meant 382 votes. [[The president calls.]] The rules behind the vote are always of prime importance. You can't make some other reality after that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u72	Mr. President. I present a case that has to do with changing child law. This may at first appear to be a small, simple matter, but there is a very important right and a deeply appreciated view of how we administer legislation in Iceland. The transport workers with me on this bill are the members of the Left move, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnúsdótir, and Steinunn Þóra, the Árnadóttir of the Year. The bill, as I mentioned earlier, may not be giving up much. It's a whole couple of articles. 1st par. It reads: We're 2nd. Twenty-eight. The law adds a new proverb, as follows: A sick or injured child should have the right to care for his parents. This will change the 2nd mg. so that it reads in whole: Parents must care for their children and therefore show consideration and respect for them and have their duties as best for their children and needs. A sick or injured child should be entitled to care for a parent. This bill suggests that children's laws specifically require that prescient duties include the right of a sick or injured child to care for their parents. At the same time, a synonym suggests that a social and child - care minister will be assigned to set up a working group to see how parents of children will be able to fulfill this obligation by agreement between the labour market parties or by rules in that field. In recent years there has been increasing discussion of child rights and rights. This may include: Due to the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, which is often called the Children's Covenant. This agreement was signed by Iceland on the half of January 26, 1990, and was validated on October 28, 1992. Then, on November 27, 1992, he came into effect here. Over a decade later, the contract came to terms with law No. 19/2013. The right of a child to be treated with parents and to care for the most important rights of the covenant, which includes one of its cornerstones. In this regard, it can be noted that the contract will include: The obligation to Member States to ensure the rights of sick and injured children, while prime this together with the aforementioned proposal aims to ensure that the national commitments will be met better. One of the basic principles of child care is the law of a child's child's relationship with his parents or other parents. Foreseement of a child is primarily a responsibility, a responsibility, and the rightness of a parent. That right includes the right of parents to make decisions about child training and, on the other hand, the right of a child to have custody of their parents. Thus, a parent or someone who handles custody of a child has a wide range of responsibilities toward the child. In many cases, the role of parents is legalized and can be pointed to in particular 28. baby law. The role of parents and guardians is wide open, never to be talked entirely of by law. Yet, movers feel that a child's right to care for his parents or guardians is to be given special attention when he is ill or injured. Even if the right is already, however, it does not directly appear in the law and is suggested to correct it. The reason why this right of the sick and injured children is that the right to be with and care for the sick or injured child has primarily been the right of the parent or the one who has taken the lead rather than the right of the child himself. In this regard it can be noted that the labour agreement in the Icelandic labour market has, in most cases, included laws on the right of parents to care for sick children, the rights to the job and the recruitment relationship between guardians and employers. By measuring this child's own rights, it is assumed that the hooks will be settled in the labour market so that the court will be respected so that each child will be assured of this right. Thus, a parent with more than one child may have to share his rights with his children. Thus, a single child who gets sick or injured and has two parents in a job market is in a better position and may be entitled to 20 to 30 days with his parents. A sick or injured sibling child, perhaps a child of a single parent, may need to share the days and may therefore have only a few days if the situation allows for a sibling to become ill as well. So there may be considerable differences between the rights of children, and in the same way, the parent's potential for caring for his children may vary greatly. Thus, the right to care for a sick child is not merely the right of a paid job parent but rather the right to take advantage of the care they need. In the past, this proposal is presented with a co-optional proposal for the order of a working group who knows whether the workforce should be defined correctly by the parents or those who take the lead in caring for a sick or injured child with regard to a number of children. Is this a route where labour market duties and rights are defined mainly in collective agreements and therefore considered right to negotiate between them. Since there are two kinds of rights, the right of a sick or injured child to care for a parent and the right person to care for a sick or injured child, that is the right way to go. The importance of a consistent relationship between these rights should be taken into account. A respectable president. It is proper to note that the labour market partners have actually walked ahead with a good example in this regard, as is the case often when it comes to legal reforms or what eventually becomes legalized in an Icelandic labour market. Thus, the labour market members, some prior to being legalized in Iceland, had made 40 hours for the workweek, in the vast majority of cases, took that step themselves. In a sense, this is a similar way. The labour market partners have already made the decision, in their contracts, that parents have the right to be with their children when they are ill. So here they are, in effect, legally establishing rights and emphasising the child's rights. It will then be at least An interesting job of the labour market party and of those mentioned in the 191 clause to review the terms of agreements or how it will be best to approach them, whether in collective agreements or by some sort of rules, that all children's equal rights are actually guaranteed. The Court's legislation assumes that the right is in place but again, with respect to the labour market employees and the good work they have done ahead of them, is important that the labour market party be greatly involved in the decision-making of this project and how it will be done. A respectable president. I believe that this case, which is very important in the spirit of a number of other cases that have been brought here in the wake of the children's contract, is important and relevant to the way of ensuring certain rights to Icelandic children and ensure that all Icelandic children have the same rights, regardless of how their family interests may otherwise be. I have concluded my case and suggest that the case be referred to a committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u73	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a interpretation resolution of the specific service unit for individuals with rare diseases and long-term children. The movers are with me after what happened. Councilmen: Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunarsdóttir, Línika Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Hjögn Gjönsand, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Inga Haraldsdóttir, Friðbjörg Fárfjölof Elíasdóttir, Árnadóttir Kolbrönótna, Friðriksson Katrín Friðikksson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, and Ólafur Ísleifsson. The motion reads, by permission of the President: ▪ The General concluded to hide a health minister to order a team that allows specific services to be implemented for individuals diagnosed with rare diseases. The Service Unit will make sure that patients have one station in the medical system and that new knowledge and most recent research are provided with a better service based on their most recent knowledge. The population will also be assigned to review: a. whether such a unit of service could have the part to care for all the sick children and their caregivers, b. The agreement that the services of people with rare diseases also include services and advice on social related resources and support, c. how to ensure a simpler and more rapid bioavailability of necessary medicinal products due to rare conditions. A respectable president. It is important that the Council receive standards and suggestions on how we can improve the quality of those with rare diseases and long - suffering children. The proposal is made in an effort to make a minister of the General account for the results of the staff group no later than June 1, 2021. This is the second time I recommend this suggestion, but I stood here in the same position for a flat year, giving an enforcing talk on the subject. Then the proposal sounded a little different than that. Clearly, that proposal did not work out, but it was well submerged in comments about the case, as it was then presented. The matter has now taken the matter into consideration whether a special unit of service for individuals with rare diseases can also have a role in caring for children and their caregivers and the cooperation that could be seen in it. Of course, it is a matter of primary importance, but the work force is assigned to explore it. I'm here to refer to a review of the language that was received. The welfare committee. By permission of the president, the AHC organization says: ▪ It is important in Iceland to work at a knowledge center for rare diseases. This centre collects all information on rare diseases and updates when new information is received. The databases already present can be used so that the bike does not need to be invented. The AHC organization has for years worked with Eurdis, which is an umbrella organization for rare European diseases, and is very knowledgeable of these organizations, which we should use [...] By forming a center of rare diseases, there may be fewer places for parents to turn to and thus ease the stress of families of long - sick children with rare diseases. A respectable president. There is knowledge that I believe a fellow minister should consult with the proposed work involved in the implementation of specific services. As told by the community of individual children, the support group of children, and young people with rare diseases, these include: until the Society believes that this may be an important step in improving the services of individuals with rare serious medical conditions and syndrome. With such resources, a service unit, there would be one stop for the individual. In their review, they also stress that such unity would be run by the LSH, the Land Hospital, and point to a newly formed professional team at the Ring's Children's Hospital, which deals with these factors and their origins in the work of the society, i.e. Child support society and young people. It is also stated in the review to the highest degree. A health minister suggested that these measures were established, a supportive and counseling team of long-term children with rare medical conditions and a great need for support. On September 2, 2018, the team began to operate, a social worker, family expert, nurse, and development therapist. The point is clear. I'm going to point it out to you. The welfare committee calling for information from there to discuss the matter, as the review offered. The Society also points out, which is important for the group of people to be considered, that the respective rates are relevant. It says that there is a danger that the project will be too widespread, and, as it puts it, the interests of rare diseases will be kept under way, with the permission of a president, over and over in the ocean by the masses surrounding a larger and more frequent analysis. So I propose to what? The welfare committee is to examine this matter specifically, and that the experts, the staff, appreciate this factor, which is inevitable when looking at compatibility with such a business. The review of the state's analysing and counseling centre, which has participated in a number of Norwegian cooperation projects in the field of rare diseases, highlights the lack of total government policy. So I refer to the group of people to look into the experiences of those who have cared for those with rare diseases in Iceland, as well as the experiences of other stakeholders, especially those who have been involved in the ministry. Similarly, according to its review, the National Institute of Development emphasizes the importance of the knowledge that exists within the Children's Hospital. Iceland's Medical Association recommends the agreement and it's important to do so. The welfare committee examined the matter in this discussion. The comments of the MAND company are quite clear, more dignified president. The Society considers this national politics and long time, saying, under the permission of a president: 'With the hope that it will be done and not spoken to. And the Society agrees with others that such a department must be located within the Hospital and that, as it puts it, there will be a very poor chance of treatment today that drives children and adults to move out of a country where there is a weak hope for treatment. A respectable president. We're supposed to take these tips seriously, and I'm gonna call them here. The microengineering alliance makes the suggestion, says people with rare health problems in the Icelandic health and no backlands. It is important to have a work programme with effective options as a simple system for this small group. Models are already there in our neighboring countries, as is shown in a report on the proposal. We should look at what it's like, and I'll refer them to the report. I thought it was important, more dignified, to refer to the main messages that were presented in the reviews of the case when it was last discussed. We're supposed to listen. I'll put my hopes up for it. The welfare committee is now covering the situation. The reason for the task force being extended in this proposal is a call which includes: appears in these reports and from those relevant to the system in rare and chronic conditions, i.e. from the children, and from the children. It is important that the committee and the work group observe the arrangements for such a unit of service to respond to the call and to those who are suffering from rare and chronic illnesses and how they can become without a loss of service. The task force will identify how an arrangement is suitable for this country and examine the definitions needed for reference. I don't know how to analyze it, but a memory in that context and refer to an overview of the definition of this subject. It also reviews the current setting. What is well done must never be minimized, and surely these factors are handled by people. The report discusses the setting of individuals with rare diseases and particularly the setting of long - suffering children. I'd also like to draw attention to the fact that in this report access to drugs is being discussed. The review of the Marketing Authorisation Holder accounts for the induction of major drug resistance to patients. Let's hope we're out of here. the welfare committee is well aware of this aspect of the matter and accepts the assistance of the EMA for discussion. The health system must be well equipped to deal with rare diseases so that those diagnosed will not be surmounted in the system. It is, of course, the aim of a health - care administration that all the people of the country have the opportunity to have the most perfect health care available at any given time to protect their mental and physical health and social well - being. Knowledge of rare diseases is rare, studies are limited, and healing seems to be removed. Thus, they have a broad impact on the patient and, like caregivers, on the patient. Severe and chronic illnesses have a lasting effect on the lives of children and their families. It's obvious, and now I refer to the reviews I covered, that the setting for this group needs to be strengthened. There is a lack of specialist physicians in various subscales and a reduction in the availability of physicians. Long - suffering children, their families, and individuals with rare diseases need an excellent measure of care that will help them to cope with everyday life. One of the most complaint experienced by parents of chronically ill children is the energy and the struggle to cope with the system, i.e. To find out which services to perform, how to approach it, connect different professionals who care for your child, etc. What has been missing in the most attractive part of the region is a combination in this, so the systems speak together, e.g. In the form of a language manager or contacts that hold up threads for parents and family. A year ago, when I last spoke about my conversation with Hulda Björk Svavarsdóttir, the mother of Sævarsson, Þór Savar, who has a rare muscular disease, Duchenne. I think most people know the wrestling of the people they've taken of incredible positiveness and energy, I have to say, as the world has. ... towatchin the Daned for Duchenne. They've even gone dancing. at the highest. Not long ago, Prime Minister. September 29th. appeared an article in Visa with the title "There's no need for someone to catch us. " There's an interview with Lena Larsen, Finns Finnur's Högni, who was four years old when he was diagnosed with a rare liver disease, PFIC. It says that there is a lack of a complete system that covers long - suffering children and their families. Furthermore, by permission of the president, she says: ▪ There is something that needs to be fixed in our health system. Everything's missing from the outside. We need someone to grab us. They need understanding. I just want to say this here, the respectable President, that it is our job to listen and try to improve our community. This is an appeal, as shown in comments on the subject and also in the examples I have quoted here in the struggle of the mothers I referred to. It is a call for this aspect of serving people with rare diseases, long - suffering children, and their caregivers. And we're supposed to listen and try to improve the system. So here is a suggestion, which actually includes the message that we listen and try to respond, to the highest degree. A minister considers the matter, analyzes the situation, what can be done, and how to better handle those in such difficult positions, that we add access and support, medical, social, and financial, that the council can get a report on the situation and what arrangements best when we refer to specific services, such as known elsewhere, where health services are held and as desired here. The service group is assigned to consider how such a service could be performed and I am convinced of it, a respectable president - because there are many very good things being done, so I take it back - that we always have to spend money when we want to improve things like our health. But in this case, I am also convinced that we can use the money better, using the good things that are already being done. I don't know why the case was in the middle of something. A welfare committee, but I just can't believe it's gonna happen again. I really hope the committee finishes this case right now. I think it's very important. That is my words, a respectable president, in which I see that the time has come, that I refer the case to what it says. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u74	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the pledge of a council of resurgence, as the president went over, a proposal for a hearing on the timing of the 20th year fishing warrants. Here in this conference hall, people have not held a single opinion about our fishing system. But there is something very important that unites us. We want the fishing route to be a lucrative industry, providing national preparations and communities across the country. We want to protect the resource by using it in a sustainable way, and we all want to settle for the code of laws the article operates on. Other factors are developed more: That the amount paid for access to the resource is in line with its profits. That the right to use the resource is temporary, but not permanent, and that individuals and companies can't property what should rightly be considered a partner to the Icelandic nation. During the 2000, 2010, and 2017, transnational committees were working to find a background on the fishing system as a common and broad agreement. The results of two of the aforementioned committees were similar, but the third committee, the one I sat on in 2017, never finished. However, it contained much more of what the other two committees had given up, that the right to use the resources of the sea was not permanent. With this recommendation I recommend here, we're looking for another trip to achieve what might be a parapolitic cooperation and a greater part of the nation's population, which may hopefully be supported by a greater part of the council. The suggestion is three-way. First, it is about changing the arrangement of the intervention of Member States to the extent that the right to hunt at 5% total resources will be offered each year. Thus, every year their quotas receive 95% of their reservations free of charge, while the rest will be offered up to 20 years at the same time. In this way the government's fee is determined by the market situation. When it's well-being, it's a little lower. Everyone follows the same rules, no matter who the buyer is. This route combines factors that must be met, according to my opinion. The market makes sure that there is a modest amount of money available to the resource. Everyone is equal to the system, and everyone has access to the auction that meets on the other hand, the requirement of being able to publish in Iceland. I mentioned the proposal was three. Second, it includes, linked to this, the removal of the decrees of hunting. A price at the accounting profit of an enterprise is essentially a very oscillating solution. With the development of a fiscal market, the need for a special payment on the seabed, the currency based on opaque calculations, and the way the winds of politics blow at one time. In other words, the article would be free of one day government's decision to raise the cost of hunting severely, and the nation is free of the government's decision that one day the government will seriously reduce the cost. Third, the suggestion discussed here suggests that a minister will set up a special building fund as part of a trust fund from the Canaanites' auction, with the role of strengthening the settlement outside the capital area. Thus the aim can be reached for the settlements of the land that are responsible for the valuable building of the ocean field and for its inhabitants'enjoyment of valuable things. Farmers and settlements would have been able to control the priorities of money in investments in their infrastructures. This provides additional funding for building the roads and communications systems, and we can work toward our goal to strengthen and expand our work territory in the country. Why is this suggestion as important as we in the restoration? First, the question can be answered by pointing out that the present system, both political and legal, remains inexplicable. The uncertainty has fallen to reduce the value of financial resources and the production of the article, and at the same time the country's future holding rights over the resource to a critical point. The legal uncertainty, as we know most people, turns to the real state of fishing. As to that position, the scholars have found different results. The most apparent theory is that by means of the dinner system, a direct mixture of property rights, rights, and employment rights has been established and the rights of the Constitution are protected. On this basis, despite the terms of Article 1, it is impossible to dissociate the greeting system. the Act on the Management of Fishing, which stipulates the use of farms in Iceland as joint property of the national nation, and that the distribution of fishing warrants would not be the right or the irrefutable guardianship of fishing warrants. This legal uncertainty must be eliminated. The same is true of the political uncertainties I described before and the constant insistence on the payment of the industry. Few things are more important than a currency's reflecting the value of the fishing road and not greatly reducing its use. Because in spite of the uncertainty of the problem, the use of fishing industry is considerably higher than in the general economy. The auction of labour warrants has fallen to ensure the greatest agreement between the use of the article and the benefit of it in the European Union. Public markets, where prices depend on supply and demand, flourish. The same is not true when a price is determined by a committee of officials or by the legal procedures here in a chamber. Such measures usually limit the value and the quality of the animals at the expense of the total. Why should it be accessed to fishing the resource in such a way? Why should the nation not benefit from their resources according to the laws of supply and demand? Then you may ask: " Why do we have a 20 - year period? Many people feel that this is too short, that development is expensive, and businesses need to be looked after in investments. The answer is that the arrangement proposed here provides a far greater insight than the current fishing system, which can be changed by a pen dash, and has actually been repeated. There are others who say that this time binding is way too long, it should last five years, or even just one year. And the short answer to that question is: Well, making an arrangement is expensive, and businesses need to be looked after in their investments. We're not suggesting that we overthrow the reservation system. We want to continue to support the continuing interest and development of the industry, and we want to protect the resource from overfishing. It's done a great job with the eater system. We are looking for ways to make things better and a way to make peace and stability that has been called on for decades. We can also expect that 20 - year - old fishing warrants are worth more per kilogram than a year at a time offered for 20 consecutive years. Thus, we call to account for the nation's interest in the resource. Thus we work holistically and in harmony with the progress of the fishing field and the share of the nation over the sea fish. V.E.G. President. I have concluded my case, and I request that the case be referred to a political treatment on a professional committee. I know that there will be a professional discussion of the case where people will be given the opportunity to present their views, and I look forward to it. I hope and look forward to having the case over again for discussion and payment at the Senate Hall following a hearing from a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u75	President. I would like to recommend a synonym to measures due to cartilities in property. This proposal has been made for a while, for some of the most serious, complex, and costly, and health problems associated with mold are often serious. So we've been through a few laps with the proposal's implementation. It's a complicated thing, much more complicated than I thought when I started this process, but I believe that this process can be used as a basis for the very need for reforming of the regular task that is present when moisture damage is discovered in property. The proposal has the highest authority. Department of Social Affairs to provide the necessary changes to address six key elements that will help owners find real estate to eliminate moisture damage and prevent new structures from being exposed to moisture damage in the future. First of all, they're assigned to the highest level. Ministers to provide changes in law and regulations in order to increase the right protection of those affected by moisture damage. Here, however, changes in public reform rights are not being proposed but are more likely to be made in various aspects of moisture damage and treatment of such cases with insurance companies. For example, there is no agreement between the methods used in individuals who offer traces of moisture and mold, either in methodology or in the severity of the case. The options associated with this category are expensive and often falls outside insurance and not just when it comes to preventing damage. In particular, these include wrappings, which cannot be guaranteed for mold damage. And in many cases, where people become seriously ill, they simply have to throw away the inside, and it is easier said than done to repair the damage done to those who cannot afford them. Second of all, it's the highest. Prior to national use, a minister has requested to further improve the independent monitoring of the construction tests. So far, the construction industry's laboratory has played this role, but its future is unclear, since it is likely to fail if it is planning to do so. Tourism, industrial and innovation, the collapse of Iceland's New Creation Centres, will become a reality. It is vital that the knowledge that is not lost in it and that the work is independent and has sufficient funds. The work of the laboratory has been considered to be a competitive fund, but it is difficult to see that some of its research on building materials will be improved. The public needs to succeed when it comes to securing basic research on building materials under Icelandic conditions. This, along with increased professional education, is one of the basic premises for preventing moisture damage in the homes that will be built in the coming years and decades. An increasing knowledge by a professional is just the third point in the motion, which is especially being considered to be an increased knowledge of the risk of barber damage right away at a building level. That's not out of the open. In recent years, there have been a number of cases of barber damage and molds in recent homes, such as storage materials outside the door and the lack of expertise in working in wetlands and windows, to mention just a few. It should be noted, however, that most new construction contractors in this country follow the rules and instructions for new buildings. This is an incentive to increase these benefits further. Fourth, it's suggested to the highest. Ministers provide centrally available information on housing projects. Here is an opportunity for a number of tools, but I have imagined that this could look like the database of a car checkout or a health - care clinic. This is the biggest investment of our lives. The idea is that it can collect central information about the projects that have truly been done on housing and could affect the plans of future buyers and tenants. This is extremely important and, in fact, a bit of assurdd that it is not there, i.e. How little information we really have on this big investment. In one place, e.g. can be found by assessment of your condition, your bank accounts for your maintenance, photos for and after and damage - these data are already available in most cases but are not available in one place. For example, the insurance companies in the country had a large amount of information available, but it is not available to anyone except the owners of the real estate. In fact, it would be interesting to hear, and I'll give it a warning, the Peritoneal Protection Act on this issue, and the records of insurance companies to deliver data on such a central database. Fifth is suggested to the highest. A minister uses positive motivation to ensure that property can be sufficiently secure from moisture damage. In fact, all the things I've listed here will, but it would be interesting to see if there's no independent means of such a course. The last figure of the proposal is the highest. Ministers to take in a positive incentive for real estate owners to prevent moisture damage from the real estate that has already been built in Iceland. Again, the wording is used rather open to do the highest. Minister is allowed to think something outside the box. Yet, it is possible to imagine indiscriminate taxes and fees for repairing houses, handling financial assistance to the low income, and certification systems for real estates that have been the main source of moisture damage that would affect retailing prices. This is significant because the damage that exists in society, the health damage to people, costs a lot of money. If we make a positive incentive for the owners of real estate to maintain their property and prevent moisture damage, we are actually saving a lot of money for the future. Let us not forget, too, that many of the property of the State and rural society is badly affected by barber damage and mold. One of the measures to correct the economy could include, for example, have a significant build-up of these commonly called schools or hospitals to prevent moisture damage there. President. After I began to care for these matters, it was soon discovered that the problem is much bigger than I would ever have thought. I have hardly forgot to study the experiences of those who have come up with me along with my work environment and the legal environment of those who work in research and repair moisture damage. The effects on the body where mold is found are very different but serious respiratory infections and skin reactions are likely to be the most common. In fact, I hope that the tolerancers will shave damage and mold, whether because of physical damage or physical symptoms, will send in envelopes to the welfare committee on this matter and allow members of the Committee to get to know their own experience world. I think it's particularly important because of the personal impact on people's health and comments, such as these, could become an important road leader at work at the highest level. A minister will be accepted, and lack of research on the health effects of living and working in an environment where moisture damage and mold are present. Of course, molds vary, and it's not all dangerous, and it also affects people differently. I would also recommend that, and there is a possibility that there is some other matter in the matter of Congress, an investigation of some kind would lead to the consequences of living in mold. I've experienced this in my own life. I can foretell my reaction to people, not just to me, but to the many people I have spoken to, often in the way of some form of imagination. Somehow people aren't ready to know they're a problem. And this is a problem because there are a lot of people who are sick, and there are a lot of people running from home. There are a lot of people who have had to throw away all their dwellings, spend enormous sums of money tearing out molds, and fix their homes. We are not acknowledging this problem adequately, and we do not have an idea of the extent of the problem when it comes to the health damage of molds. I urge it to be examined as well. After this discussion, I suggest that the proposal be extended to the General welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u76	Mr. President. I recommend a synopsis of measures to reduce the use of palm oil in Iceland. The first circuit overseer of this assembly has a problem. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Sufjörg Elisdóttir Artists are different. Councilmen of the United States and then members of the Parliament are members of the WG, Pormissian, Rebedding, and non - party council members. The suggestion reads: The General concluded to hide a travel, industrial and innovation secretary to work on the limitation of palm oil use in all productions in Iceland and provide a bill for the ban on its use in biodisil. A minister presents his findings to the General and gives the bill for a prohibition on the use of palm oil in biodisil no later than at the end of 2021. A similar scheme was made until 149, and 150th, the legislature council, but it did not succeed. I'd like to see here that the case was settled at the same time. A local employment committee, but they did not attend the Generals program. That is why I expect the work on the committee will be successful, and we will soon get it back in the future. By their interpretation of the proposal for transport, the use of palm oil in biodisil, Iceland, will be forbidden. Deforestation is done when palm oil is taken, but it adversely affects the environment and causes a number of damages that are sharpened by bans. The proposal is based on the coverage of Magnúsdóttir's Ecographer. In view of the impact production of palm oil on the environment, the European Union has been adopted Commission Regulation (EU) 2019/087 aimed at reducing the use of nonrenewable bioenergy fuels, including palm oil. An oil aluminium is a rapid tropical barrier that originated in West and Southwestern Africa. The fruit of this palm tree is derived from palm oil. One miller yields about four tons of palm and palm tree core oil. These products are found in many Western countries, and increasingly in Asia, they buy and buy every day. These include cosmetics, soaps, chocolates, bread, cakes, biscuits, gasoline, etc. Lands such as Indonesia and Malaysia, which produce most of palm oil, have already cut down much of their rain forests, including for the mass production of palm oil, which is the cheapest commercial plant oil. The demand for it has increased substantially over the past few decades, and to the end, rain forests are being cleared in large quantities. Today, the largest part of palm oil is marketed, causing the destruction of rain forests. It is estimated that at least 18.7 million acres [8.7 million ha] of rainfor the production of palm oil has been dropped, mainly in Indonesia and Malaysia. Such land cover is as big as two times the size of Iceland. The production of palm oil doubled in the first decade of this century, and it has likely doubled in the early decade. This is due largely to increased demand in Asia. Rain forests are highly fertile and have a wide variety of biodiversity. In one hectare in the Amazon jungle, e.g. More than 230 types of trees were found. In addition, forest is much more than just a tree, and unfortunately, many species of animals and animals are also lost when forested. Animals thrive only if they have sheltered, suitable food, and the food web can be very complex in old rain forests. Some even depend on others. Only with the help of certain insects, birds, or mammals will the fertilization of many plant species result in death. Animals may need large areas to function and not survive in small, limited rainforests. This is why many rain forests are in grave danger of extinction. Rain forests are huge carbon chambers and some rain forests, mainly in Southeast Asia, grow in carbon - rich swamps. When the forests are cleared and burned, the effects of climate change are increased because carbon is released into the atmosphere when the forest itself is burned and when the swamps are started. In addition, these swamps were often sparked, and in 2015, a very dry year, a large part of Southeast Asia was covered with a wide range of food attributable to forest fires in Indonesia due to palm oil production. The transformation of rainforests into plantations is, in fact, made up of lifeless areas in which animals such as orangutans have no hope. It is thought that if Indonesia's rainforests continue to be destroyed at the same rate, the orangutans in nature could be extinct within a few decades. In addition, Amnesty International has recently been exposed to the terrible equipment of people working on palm oil plantations, where children are enslaved and women are weakened by spraying insecticides on the forest floor. In 2013, a total of over 60 million tons of palm oil were produced worldwide, of which only 16.5% were produced under the umbrella of an association called the Ring Table of sustainable palm oil. Mr. President. Although most of the palm oil produced in foods and cosmetics has been increasingly used as fuel or for mixing. This is why climate policy is mainly responsible for the European Union. It is estimated that in 2014 European vehicles burned more than three million tons of palm oil. There was about one third of all biofuel use in the European Union. Biofuels have been viewed as non-carbon products, but the simple has actually deceived governments into believing that palm oil for biofuels is better for climates than fossil fuels. Sadly, the opposite is true. The increase in demand for biofuels has resulted in increased production of palm oil in Malaysia and Indonesia, resulting in increased rainforest erosion, erosion of mores, less biodiversity and increased greenhouse gas emissions. A biodiversity is produced in three parts of the country and is a new opportunity to produce as much environmentally friendly biosilver as possible. This allows many items other than palm oil to be used, e.g. Waste oil, animal fat, and oil, re-use methadone, and it may be possible for the future to use algae. Thus, the use of palm oil can be promoted and supported by Icelandic production. Palm oil is used for food production in Iceland, but it has greatly reduced its use in recent years. The use of palm oil for food would be preferable, for in addition to a high carbon track, palm oil is saturated with fat. The surgeon recommends a switch of parts of saturated fat for unsaturated fatty acids, both polyuncapped and monomethated, thus reducing the risk of cardiovascular events. Mr. President. I've done a large piece of paper with this synopsis proposal, which is very informative. As I told you earlier, a similar proposal was taken care of in a parapolitic way. A professional health committee. I expect that. The job committee will take care of the situation, making it quick and reliable for future discussions here at the Senate Hall and approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u77	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for the synopsis of a facilitated access to treatment measures at the Vagi Hospital. With me on this suggestion, all members of the Central Party and as well. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson. I'm gonna read the input and the report here and then talk it out later. The General concluded to assign a health minister to order a team of personnel to improve the availability of individuals with addiction problems to treatment options available at the hospital of Vogi. The plan will be prepared in close cooperation with stakeholders. The Outfit shall submit proposals for Ministers no later than February 2022. The Minister introduces the results of the Group's work at the spring council of 2022. This proposal was previously submitted to the 150th legion of legislatures (732th case), but it could not be discussed. The suggestion is an important step in promoting health care and promoting improvements in society and quality of life for those requiring hospitalisation at the Vog hospital. The Qualificationary Directive provides a health - care advisor with a panel to determine what it takes and how much money it would be needed, the hospital manager Vogs, the Vigs' treatment station at the Viking and the SÁA walks, to provide adequate treatment options on Vogi so that a shorter waiting list and a higher access and services to individuals in addiction could be reduced. The hospital Vogur is a specialized drug - detoxification organization and treatments in recent decades with good results, and it is the experience of those who work in this vastly and who have called attention to the rocks. Vogi provides specific treatment for addiction based on medical diagnosis, detoxification with professionals, chemotherapy and individual psychosocial treatments, to name just a few. In 1997, a growing waiting list was addressed with a plan to eliminate the list of clients. by building at the hospital Vog. The program reached the year 2000, and that year the wait list was cut short and wiped out over a period of time throughout the year. There was a lack of management funds and staff decrease in size, which resulted in prolonged waiting lists. In response from a minister to his first request for a waiting list at Vogi, at the 150th legislature, it is stated that in March 2020, 530 persons were on the waiting list for admission to Vogi and have remained quite stable in that number since 2014 for over six years. The waiting period is short for those seeking treatment for the first time and none for adolescents. There are people on a waiting list who are not going to be treated for the first time, these are those who have been treated before and need to go back to the waiting list. That's what this is all about. On average, a patient stays for about ten days, room for 50 patients, plus 11 beds in a youth ward, and they receive patients every day of the week. According to a report on the 2020 service of the United States, 2,317 comments on theology were found in 1,624 individuals who make approximately 1.4 admissions per person, and it can be concluded that there is a repeated admission of some. THE year is the year that the total cost of operation in 2019 983 million was met. K. ... anda governmentpublishedover 796 million. K. The difference was then at the cost of SAY, and it's been paid with a lot of money, and there the elf sale has played very strong into which it has not been possible to go on after the Covid epidemic over but to a limited extent electronically, but it has been very low. This year, society's self - worth has suffered a great loss. So that's worth 21,582 days a year. Clearly, the situation that has developed is that the average time for individuals with drug and addiction problems to wait for Vog's admission from 20 days to more than 120 days is neither beneficial for individuals nor for the whole community. People with substance - addiction problems have a major impact on society, and it is the benefit of society in general that those who wish to be treated will be immediately granted the opportunity to be hospitalised if they seek out because a long waiting period has often proved to be expensive. It has been found many times that paying access to alcohol and drug abuse is the best way for individuals to cope with addiction, since addiction is not partial and is obsessed with whole families. There is some evidence that individuals require more than one admission and prolonged treatment to overcome addiction, but to improve the risk of recovery, good access to measures is required. Usually, those who have to wait a long time for treatment are just the ones who are called a comeback or a woman who has one or more treatments. Some people die waiting for treatment. Police authorities'involvement in crime, use of drugs, and property records can be partly attributed to those who have at that time been under the influence of alcohol or drugs. Thus, society, law - enforcement, health, and social resources are a major target of the harmful effects of alcohol and alcohol abuse on society. The State's cost is far greater than that of having sick people either in institutions or on shelters, helping those seeking immediate help, thus contributing to their full involvement in the community as healthy individuals. It is estimated that the success of Vogi treatment will make it easier to solve the problem in these substances because no one is going to become an alcoholic or a drug addict. It is once, as shown in the report, that no one plans to become an addict or an alcoholic or a drug addict. The condition affects individuals in varying degrees - the condition of the sick. Thus, as the report also shows, many people need more than one treatment to get better, to get away from their addiction, so that they can start living soberly. Many have been successfully successful in life after having had to undergo more than one treatment, even two, three, or more treatments. You don't joke about getting laid. As also shown, people die waiting to get in, the weakest. It is caused by the disease that results in other underlying keratism. There is no fairness in saying this, that once treated people have had to wait longer than others when they see how different the disease is going to treat people. These diseases have repeatedly been found to affect individuals as well as families. In the Covid epidemic, the Voss has made a campaign in the Preservation Service, and it has to be said as it is that it is very joyful to see that they received additional funding, which is equivalent to one employee, in order to add to the psychological services. It is the most thought - provoking for children of alcoholics, to teach about the disease, and for parents who have children in trouble. It is urgent that the patient's caregivers, this is a family disease, recognize the disease, and so reach the individual from the disease. I've often said that a sick alcoholic is two persons, and that's just a simple explanation for me. There has been a large increase in domestic violence in these times of Covid. I asked the Minister of Justice in that summer, at the June summer council, and in response to the minister's request, it was reported that domestic violence had taken a huge leap up or increased much in the last three months, March, April, May. You may find that it is because people are at home, worried, and I don't know what. It requires more trouble, and I'm sure it's a lot of this because of disorder. In those homes where domestic violence is being practiced, it is amongst those who are on the waiting list to enter the Vog. It is easy to add two and two together if these individuals were immediately treated. I could keep talking about these matters for a long time. Many outdoorers and women are on the waiting list. It can be said by wandering people that they have certainly not made it their goal as young people to go on the street. It is the disease that has brought them there, those who are addicts. V.E.G. President. I wish that this case would go to the welfare committee and thank me for the time being.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u78	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a proposal for a better access to treatment in the hospital at Vogi. I am one of the carriers of this proposal that a health - care minister be assigned to order a team of action programmes to improve the availability of individuals with addiction problems to treatment options available at the hospital of Vogi. The plan will be prepared in close cooperation with stakeholders. This suggests that a minister should appoint a group of workers who will consider what it takes to provide adequate attention to the treatment talk. The objective is to shorten the waiting list and increase access and services to individuals who are dependent on addiction. The time zone for this proposal is in the spring council of 2022. I don't know if it's gonna take this long. I would have liked to have this before, I'm always in such a hurry. I don't know if this is such a big deal that it needs to be checked for a year and a half. I would've preferred a year's deadline, i.e. 2021. So I direct them on the committee when they take this matter to treat them. Mr. President. Evil is a specialized organisation that has been responsible for the detoxification of addicts and treatment in recent decades with good results and is based on wide - range experience and knowledge of this disease. It has been given specialized treatment of these diseases based on medical diagnosis, detoxification with professionals, chemotherapy and individual psychological therapy, to name just a few. It has also been observed by a carrier that earlier this year, 630 individuals were on the waiting list for admission to Vog. Has kept the list of people that are somewhat stable, with a similar number or about 500, at least Last six years. True, the waiting period is short for those seeking treatment for the first time and none for teenagers. Therefore, there are individuals on this waiting list who are not having treatment for the first time. As evidence of the extent of activity, there were over 2,300 incorporations at Vg in over 1,600 individuals, so there are a lot of repeated incorporations in a part of this group. Of course, it is shocking that the average time for individuals with consumption and dependence to wait for Vog to be held between 20 days and four months. I don't think it's acceptable and not a benefit for these individuals or for the rest of the community. People with drug and drug addiction have a major impact on society, and it is our overall benefit that those who wish to be treated will be given the opportunity to get into it. It has been found many times that paying access to alcohol and drug abuse is the best way for an individual to deal with the problem because addiction is not partial and is obsessed with whole families. It is a disease that infects entire families during this time that affects family life and around each person, so it is a type of family disease that dominates whole families. Mr. President. A news story appeared just a few days ago and has actually been very little and little to be discussed. That's when I'm talking about a story where heroin has started making its way across the country. This is quoted by the project manager of Mrs. Ragnhöfki, who has been helped to reduce the number of drug addicts. It is most serious if these destructive drugs begin to go to bed in this country, but we have blessed most of the best of all that heroin has been out of control here in the country so far, even though it has been common among most of our leading addicts in our neighboring countries. Heroin has a unique position among drugs, for it affects those who become addicted to the physical condition of the material. Then there is no question about what humans do to obtain material. They'll do anything. Hence, this dangerous material follows a range of influences that we may not have seen to a great extent in our country, i.e. Crime and maybe new crime types. I mention, for example. that robbery is blessed with few success in Iceland, but with the production of heroin, it has been shown in other countries according to information, it is followed by robbery, very by the addicts dependent on heroin. The drug calls them so strong physically that they simply have to get ahold of material, and they cannot stand waiting. This is a very serious situation, and I wanted to use this opportunity in a talk on this subject for a moment. Many have feared that heroin would be here because it is well - known in our neighboring countries. We have repeatedly, Mr. President, crossed our backs and for the fact that they weren't here. The most common drugs are drugs, such as fixed doses. In heroin intake the dose is not accurate and there is a risk of mortality due to overdose. For this reason, I've asked you a question to the highest level. Minister of Justice, which will be distributed today, asking for information on the frequency and quantity of all heroin in this country during the past ten years and the rest of this year. Also, the number of cases involved and each one is attributable to border maintenance. Then I'm fishing for it, Mr. President, whether or not you're taking the material from the consumers. Mr. President. While individuals are waiting to be admitted to Vog's admissions or other treatment centers, these addicts, of course, do a variety of crimes, many of which, and bring them to police hands. The police often interfere with them, although not a crime, of course, because the police are involved in a number of highly leading addicts, e.g. because of drunkenness or disorder or delirium and even because of the general lack of self - control they face. Then these parties are often known as police emissaries. Don't forget, Mr. President, there's the smallest of our brothers. Here we are discussing the smallest of our brothers in the community. As a result, a lot of community costs come along, and I think that if everything was calculated and all the coins taken into account in the treatment options offered here, they'll be less than a cent saved in the community. Of course, I would first mention that those addicts who can help come back to society and become useful to members of society, walk to work, and pay taxes like others. I'm probably done with all the stuff I wrote unless I've missed a piece of paper here. But I think it's a good suggestion, and I suggest that she be treated well, and I hope she'll be approved here at the council. This is good. This is socially very good and healthy, and we must help the smallest of our brothers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u79	V.E.G. President. I just wanted to come up here as soon as I thank you. paritaprevir Gauti Göta Hjaltason was very impressed with the talk, he handled these matters well. That's exactly what he learned about saving was offering extra funds to help people get into therapy when they wanted to, and then we're talking about those who have to wait a long time. I have often studied in speeches and literature that studies have shown that getting people up again, getting back into society, becoming useful to members of society, though it costs money, brings benefits to the government, and the person finds purpose in life again. It's expensive when people have to be in an institution, and it's sad for families to look up on people who are struggling with this disease. I'd also like to make up my previous speech earlier, that many times I've been told, when I've been talking about this waiting list, that, when it comes to the waiting list, they've been waiting a long time, as shown in the report, for 20 30-120 days and even longer, they're not ready for treatment. It's exactly what I've talked about many times and I've known in this world that the window of a very sick person from an addiction is very small and I need to respond when he asks for help. It's just the disease. As I said before, a sick person is really two people. As a result, the person is in no position to control the disease. Therefore, it is very important that this should occur when you wish to receive treatment. Because I also came on preemptives back then, I'd like to make it a matter of prevention for the patient's family, I don't talk about seeing my parents and the family come back to treatment and finding myself and becoming the individual he was before he got sick. There's a lot of protection for the others to see that this is working. In this way, there are some ways that we can stretch the procrastination. I just wanted to come back up here and make this all up. I put my eyes into it now, while I waited to get back here in the chair, to tell the state police today or yesterday that 800 cases of domestic violence have been announced to the police this year. The police chief said that the rise in the Korean epidemic was a mutant. He also says that the police in this country had a sharp reaction, but they are truly concerned about evolution. The road is increasing with the problem, and the problem is much inside the home, so it is urgent to make available access to the resources available to help cope with this serious problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u80	A respectable president. First, I must admit that I missed the first part of this discussion so that some of what I'm thinking may have been considered. For the sake of material matters, there is, in fact, just one thing that I don't understand about the matter itself, and that is why specific treatments are offered at the hospital at Vogi. Of course, I have no objection to the fine hospital, but I find it odd to focus on it alone because dealing with addictions is a much more extensive problem and I would have thought it would be better, and maybe a committee would oversee this, so the plan of action is about improving the availability of individuals with addiction problems in general, regardless of whether it's on Vogi or elsewhere. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] There may be some good answers to this, but at least I've noticed during a discussion in Iceland that there's a bit of a plan that S.A. and Voggi is the only available option. First of all, that's not true. Second, the methods used are not entirely free from criticism. It's not true that the 12-step system is the only thing that works. It's not like that. What people need differs greatly. At times, the addiction is not even the root of the problem but the result of the underlying problem. Sometimes such as causes mental problems, such as drug abuse, legal or illegal, but at times it is the mental illness that results in childhood or childhood trauma. There are several factors that can cause a person to become addicted. I came up here to give a talk mainly after the incident. 8th yrs South, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, who only talked about heroin, and the fact that it has been observed here. I agree with what. A senator's concern about that. In fact, I haven't seen the numbers or the data yet. A senator mentioned that heroin has more to do with robbery. I suspect there's more to consumer social status than the material itself. But that's exactly right, as a matter of fact. A senator said that heroin is not used, that I know for at least, for legitimate purposes, certainly not in Iceland. This means that it is not known how large the doses are. This is different from what happens when it comes to what is called a therapeutic cup, i.e. substances that are used for medical purposes, are released into the economy, and are then used there. They are also committed in a variety of ways by the person they sell, so in that case, it is not quite clear how much of the material consumers really get. No doubt, however, the problem is a little better than when it comes to heroin because at least it is known at some point during the manufacturing process and the distribution process, the amount of material that was in the volume. I can only point out that the use of heroin in Iceland was anticipated. She's not supposed to surprise us today, unfortunately. The story has been going, probably for decades now, that the reason that heroin is hardly found in Iceland was because the so - called underworld did not themselves want it. I leave it alone to go into the theoretical definition of the concept of the underworld. But this is one thing that is likely to change. Second, this concern was when a uniform system was set up to monitor the distribution of opioids, a procedure that I knew no one was in, and served a positive goal of keeping extramarital so that people would not be getting their supplies from many doctors and then sell them in the black markets. Noble goals, and everything good for them, were to be realized that any group already addicted to such chemicals would not simply stop; it would flood fire and sulfur; it would go further; it would go further; it would go to other substances that fanned the same addiction. They were told and pointed it out. I mentioned it in a drunk, and then there was a reason. A senator who shook his head over an officer. I usually hate to point out that my prophecies have come true, but in this case, I'm sorry. This reminds us that when we are fighting an addiction, it does not mean that it is simply a matter of detracting and reducing demand. It's more complicated than that. Figuratives cannot be punished in order to get them to quit. If it worked to punish people with drug problems, the drug problem would not exist. Despite obvious negative consequences, drugs simply use drugs. Families are scattered, and lives are ruined, people lose their jobs, they fall from school, they lose friends, even their children, all they care about in life, and they still use the material. Where did the idea come from that by a finer or a criminal record, they suddenly stopped using the material? This is the misunderstanding of the system, a respectable president, on the phenomenon of addiction. Addiction is viewed as unknown or disobedient. It's more and more complicated than that. As to the proposal, I have also mentioned it in a pontta before and again: What if you had said in 2006 or 2007 that you could wipe out all the pots in Iceland? I think most people would have assumed that this would reduce the consumption of cannabis in Iceland. This is what happened in the collapse. Because of the currency shakes, the capital scaffold, the cycle of capitals needed to maintain the pot import to the extent it was then. And what happened? Icelanders started growing their own grass. It didn't get any harder to get canabis, it was just grass, instead of hash from outside. A respectable president. Drug and drug abuse are health problems to be dealt with, not by trying to control people, but by meeting their needs, whether social, psychological, or medical. I thought it was worthwhile to come here and mention this because I listened to the majority of a talk. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason. To say that I have the merely to look into material at the suggestion, in fact, I showed why. To explain this aspect, a candidate would answer me or give me a speech, why it is especially focused on the Mog. I can't find an explanation for this in my report, but again, they're surprised I haven't heard the whole discussion. Other than that, I certainly welcome the goal of the proposal. I like the aim of the proposal, to improve the availability of individuals with addiction to treatment. But I strongly warn that these problems are designed to be simple. If they were simple, they would have been solved. It is not simple, so we have not solved it. We'll never see a free Iceland. Never. That's the way it is. The question is, How do we live with that reality with the least damage, especially for consumers themselves?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u81	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson's talk very much. I just wanted to say something because the senator asked about the first thing in his talk: Why just Voggi? I've been talking about all medical treatments, but in this case, I specifically mention it because of Voggi's acceptance of a hospital, which is a specialized detoxification center that's not in other places. The hospital Voss for more than himself, if we can say so. The community service at the hospital of Vogs and the Hospital is very good. They do a lot of detoxification for the Land Hospital. As a matter of fact, I could fully convey a synonym proposal for a better access to all available treatment options. I'd love to, but in this case, I'm going to isolate it at the hospital Vog for this reason. Many succeed in fighting this disease without being treated, so to speak, by going straight into the AA organization. Those who do not need it are not alcoholics. Some people can just stop, and most people can stop without having treatment. It's just not always that way. The senator's speech was quite interesting to me. But this is what I wanted to respond to so that it is presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the explanation. The explanation that Voggi has a specialized denialal position makes it possible for a person to look especially at a suitable hospital. On the other hand, I would say that the body smell proposal does not have to refer specifically to a good hospital alone, since one of the solutions to the problem may be to increase the number of such alternatives to Vogi. I'll let it go. The welfare committee will meet this. This may be as simple as taking out these two, three words, or whatever, in the text of the material itself. I think the problem would be solved, if there's a problem. Not that I'm going to say why. The welfare committee for what to do. Hv. However, a senator specifically mentioned the AA organization, i.e. what happens when someone with a drug problem comes out of a hospital after detoxification. I heard an expression coming out of me. The senator's view is that the AA organization, or 12 stitches of the system that follows them, is somehow what the alcoholics need. It's controversial. There are plenty of people who use other than the 12 - step system and do not want to use the 12 - step system for ideological or even religious differences. It's great that the system is suitable for the people it suits, but it's probably not that an alcoholic needs this system. Still, it may be that if a person is not an alcoholic, he does not need this. A person may need alternatives to the 12 - step system and still be an alcoholic. But saying so, I accept the senator's explanation. This is something I would just leave behind for a welfare committee to deal with. For my part, I don't have much more reason to reason with this than, of course, if it was. A senator wants to. In that case, there is a joyful share.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u83	V.E.G. President. In itself, it's settled between us, so fixed. But because the senator introduced more resources for alcoholics than the 12 - step system, that may well be the case. I'm not going to argue about it. However, since 1935 the 12 - step system has been very effective and has helped millions to attain a better life. I'm sure there are more methods, and I just congratulate those who find a way different from this. I'm not going to argue, but it's only clear to me that the person who's had a problem with addiction, alcohol or drugs in general, sees that his life is going to be in trouble, makes a decision that he has to do something about it, that he's just going to stop tomorrow and he's gonna make it, he doesn't have a sick addict or a sick alcoholic in my mind. It just doesn't work for the other people who are sick. I can tell you what. A senator says that I am one of those who experimented for many years to break free from drug abuse. That didn't happen until I was treated 26 years ago and I totally turned my life around. If I was an alcoholic, I would certainly never have been caught up in the public speaker's parking lot. It's crystal clear, so they say. But I thank the senator very much for his reaction.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u84	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator and congratulates those who are able to improve their lives in a way that damages their lives, whether alcohol or anything else. Of course, their drug content can be so devastating that they really have a place in the community as a special problem. Actually, I don't have much to do with later answers from what. It's not the only way. It's great that it works for what it works. But there are many people who need other ways. According to this, I planned to come up here mostly out of politeness. I have nothing more to add at this point than to thank you. A senator for the conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u85	You too.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u86	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, but I'm still coming up here and extend it a little. [[Up front.]] Classic response. I've got blood for my duty to love the U.S.A. and the wonderful work that takes place at Vogi and the post-treatment centres of S.A. It is, of course, a great work done by these organizations, and it is extremely important for our society that there are people who are willing to take on such an important assignment, such as the U.S.A. in this case. Of course, we can mention other such examples, other individuals who run important health care or health care. This category contains e.g. you can name Hálðkot and Krysavík. I know it's a follow-up, not detoxification. I'm gonna start by saying I think it's very important for our health systems to have such powerful institutions that are ready to lose weight. Of course, there is also detoxification and treatment at the Land Hospital. I'll say, though, that I agree. paritaprevir In this Helgi, the Helgi Hrensson's Hrafn's Gunnarsson in this regard, that I feel that there's some kind of class violation to offer a Senate decree that is particularly about some one hospital or one of the operators. I would like to have a plan of action and an opportunity to form replacement operations examined. But I wouldn't expect to measure for a synonym which would just go on increasing or improving the availability of patients in the clinical setting, although I believe that the clinical situation might be a huge addition to the seminary and reduce the heavy weight it contains. That's really just what I wanted to say. I think it's a very good goal, and there's a problem. It is our job to increase the bioavailability of addicts by treatment. That is a goal that I can wholeheartedly agree to be worthy of. But I think it is more true that if such a conclusion went out of this room, it would be directly available to the health minister to work on the general problem with more institutions and parties. There are people present in the media today who want to open hospitals comparable to those in Vogi. I think it would be best if more people came to this site to solve the problem that exists. But, of course, quality requirements must always be met, and the Voss meet their standards, and they have been working very long.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u87	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change in social security laws and social assistance laws, a demeaning job group disorganization. A moving man is besides me Sæland Gorland. The bill reads: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Change of Social Security Act, No. 100/2007. 1st par. After the 22nd. The law's coming up with a new article, 22nd par. a, as well as a heading, as follows: It's an experiment. Microenergy pensioners are allowed to earn two years of employment and they do not interfere with microenergy pensions, age - related microenergy supplements, income insurance, and special pensions under social legislation. The right to work without defect in the employment sector is to announce to the micro-energy pensioner to the insurance agency that he intends to use that authority or at the later date specified by a microenergy pensioner specifically in his announcement. Notifications will be made 52. g. Despite the 1st mg. it is permitted that reduced reforms may be total poverty rates higher than average wages in the current profession according to local Haustours. The latest information should be used at any time. They will then restrict social insurance as a micro-energy pensioner on the rights of no matter what the employment income accounts for 50% of the total income of the disability donor and the average salary of the profession. Despite the bounds of the b-depth 2 mgr. Section 16. 4 mg. Twenty-two. Unauthorized microenergy evaluation is not permitted based on the performance of microenergy pensioners during the period when they are authorized to obtain employment without impairment. 1.mg. During bioenergy re-evaluation, the performance of microenergy donors should not be considered during this period. If the applicant has previously taken advantage of a job permit without impairment, he or she can apply again eight years after a two-year period. 1.mg. completed. Il. section. Change of Social Help Act, No. 99/2007. 2.g. After 3 mg. Count 9. The law comes a new paragraph, as follows: Despite the regulations of 3 mg. There should not be a list of earnings for a pensioner under the average service group as determined by Iceland's Habitat Office during the period when he takes advantage of 1 mg. Twenty-two. a Social Security Act. The latest information should be used at any time. Section 3. This law goes into effect on January 1, 2021. The bill was presented to the 150th legislature, 33th but was not completed, as was the case with many other cases at that assembly. The terms of a current social security law are difficult to understand, and it is often difficult for the citizens to understand the procedure of the law. It's the guys who get the money for a micro-energy pension, according to $18. The law, though, knows that they are facing a number of failings. In this way, disability assessments are given temporarily, and many fear benefits if their health deteriorates after they start working. The prospect of future life is not to be worried about when an attempt to resume work. On the contrary, they should expect a better standard of living. It is therefore suggested that micropigs be provided with a special source that they can use when they want to re-start or increase their ability to work. In the event that this experiment is not successful, a invalid will not have to fear any further decrease in pensions or disability re-evaluation on the basis of that experiment. Similar measures were effective in Sweden. There, about 30% of the subjects returned to the workforce after an attempt to serve. Because all its citizens have the motivation to work and the increased active force, society benefits. In terms of the increase in tax revenues, tax revenues in terms of the increase in social security costs are involved. Spiritual health is likely to improve if people can have an active share in the community, and this arrangement is designed to improve the quality of their spirituality as well as that of their families. In 1st. The bill is suggested for a new article, 22 paragraph. a, add social security laws as home to micro-energy pensioners applying for a cut-down pension due to employment income under the average service for two years. Thus, microenergy pensions, age-related microenergy supplements, disability grants, income insurance and specific supplements are reduced according to 2 mg. Count 9. Law on Social Help, No. 99/2007, not because of employment during the period when microenergy pensioners take advantage of the resources. Still, pay is reduced by other biofuel incomes during the season. However, the upper limit is determined by the measures taken in the same profession. In this way, improvements in employment beyond those criteria should be impaired. However, in order to prevent double-baked taxes and impairment, it is suggested that only more than 50% of the income required by the microenergy pensioner outweighs the average wage. So the options encourage increased employment intake are in 3mg. It should be noted that employment should not be taken as long as micro-energy biofuels are used to re-evaluate disability and that it is also forbidden to reverse the specified microenergy assessment based on the ability to operate while re-emerge. Thus, a micro-energy pensioner does not have to worry that increasing the number of businesses may lead to the loss of rights if he has to get worse and needs to work less. Four. it defines when a micro-energy pensioner can use it again. Two. The bill is submitted to the change to Article 9. legal on social assistance to ensure specific supplementation of 2 mg. Count 9. Their laws are not impaired by professionals who perform an attempt to serve. A respectable president. The system of social security we've built is, as I've repeatedly pointed to, monsters, a butt-scraped monster who seems to be no longer useful to others except for the use of wolf spray and vandalism. The most amazing thing about this system is that it has become so cruel that if a dollar is inserted somewhere into the system, it causes a chain-based decline throughout the system and, in many cases, a poor one to be left behind. I've never been able to understand the laws that place on individuals so unbelievablely pressured taxes and impairment that it prevents them from trying to work. It is quite remarkable that we have built up such a system. Consider the fact that now in the Covidagree, we have been writing songs about paying off payoffs to companies, paying unemployment bills to people, and still making notices, paying on unemployment benefits that have lost all their income. That's good. At least we are trying to help those who really need help. But at the same time, there are people out there who are trying to work despite impaired physical resources, micromaths who want to win. The most remarkable thing in this context is that as soon as they try to win them, they have a 109,000-koff target that has remained unchanged in the number of years, a holiday target that is supposed to be well over 200,000 bucks. I ask: Will anyone really trust to win if he knows that the income that comes in is impaired and paid up to 90% or even more? I think the answer is no. It's totally crazy. We have a high income tax on those who make a really high income. It's only about half of this. I wonder why, if they try to save themselves, would we think of twice as much taxes on those on the lowest cut, below the poverty line? As mentioned above, Sweden has done this, resulting in 30% of those participating in this two-year job experiment. It also tells us that there is no one involved in this system, but unfortunately, people are busy with the system. It is ridiculous in society not to use all the power of those who want to win. Of course, the Minister of Social Affairs has proclaimed the skill of the spring council, the quality of work that all opposes, only the hairs of micropigs rise. This bill, if this experiment was made, would be a much better way to get people to do the experiment themselves and on their terms. Even now, disability is already occurring, which has to stop working because the damages can become so intense. We know that during a certain period of time, there will be a certain crowning that will result in complete decline. This is because we have built up a malicious system. What makes the rating of a social security minister is to plan to create even worse: When asked to a state agency to see if they had motorized or disabled individuals or disability donor at work, there was little answer. It was hard to find. This also reminds us of the time when the city of Reykjavík, Bus, was being set in motion. There were people in a wheelchair. This may lead to a number of unstable conditions in today's labour market and this big unemployment business, but it doesn't change them, whether they are desperate or others, that we need people to find a job. That is true of disability as well as of anyone else. Therefore, in all the measures in which individuals are being tried to help with payments on notice and other matters, it is incomprehensible that we should not take similar measures for disability. With this bill, we'd be doing it. With this bill, we would take the step of helping those who want to help themselves but the system always beats on them because they think it is better. I don't understand the argument that it's better to have the other invalid at home, isolated, but still pay him compensation, than to activate him and give him a chance. He goes into the labour market, he gets income, and the government gets tax. If we look at it from that point of view, the Kingdom will heal, as it were, that the microwave will come from isolation and will make attempts to work on its own terms, not the system. If I had spent my time in disability, and it would have been told me, "We're going to train you to be a senator, I don't think it had come up on the table." But my actions brought me here. It tells us that the work of those out there, who are desperate, and others, can get them to do what they want. But they need an opportunity to do so without being severely punished. We'll also see how ridiculous this system is and the cruelty in it, as I talked about yesterday when I gave a bill about the age-related supplement which is one of the strangely impaired and taken from that micro-piercing at the age of 67 when they grow up to be healthy. All these actions, and how this group has been treated now in Covid, show that this group has been completely abandoned. He doesn't even get free masks and much less disinfectants, which seems to be for us, for example. Here at the council. They're not getting anything. The most remarkable thing, too, is that there has not yet been a dollar to older citizens. It seems that this group, the desperates who want to try to work, if they're somehow out of the box, will not get help from the state of this condition, nor will they help try to get into the job market. As I said before, and I reiterate: It is much better to let the person try to find a job even if it was only on their grounds and give them these two years, give them a chance to win, and the government gets taxes back. I trust these people even find new jobs because there is no limit to what people can do if they have the opportunity to do so. In order for this to be possible, however, it must be given the opportunity. I want the bill to go to the welfare committee, and we'll discuss it there. Hopefully, the government will see light on this bill and also see that it is the best government to establish this arrangement. No one's losing one thing or anything. We're talking about a two-year period, a adjustment period, so we can figure out if the system works, just as the Swedes did. It is exactly the same reasoning that applies when older citizens are being reduced when they work. There's no evidence to suggest that. There's been a lot of things, and all you need is a simple calculation. It's good for the government, and what's worth most, for the people too. I am convinced that it will also be benefited by the health - care system because it is destructive and will end up under pressure on the health system if people are isolated and beaten over and over again by unfair laws and denied an attempt to self - preservation. So I hope this bill is very much and sincerely accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for reporting this bill, bring it to us here for discussion. This is not the first time this bill has been delivered. This is the second time. And I tell myself, if it doesn't progress this time, which, of course, we hope will happen, it won't be left there. The bill is interesting, it's important and it's time. This is yet another attempt, or attempt, to free the bonds of disability. They are trying to break down the walls that have been around disability, which hinder them from taking the chance of getting into the work market, making themselves relevant to society, as they have very many people. There are some things I want to wonder about here. It's, for example. not entirely unknown that disability has been an option to negotiate with the workplace through a labour oce. The difference is that these individuals do so on their own terms. Counts 'em out. - That it's very important? And what does that count? A carrier that this can touch a lot of cripples in Iceland? Has there been any opinion or assessment?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of the S. Brjánsson for this inquiry. I want to tell him just as it is that any contracts that have been made are good in their own way and are definitely suitable for a particular group, not large groups. In contrast, today there are some 20,000 people, more than that, according to the latest numbers. Some people have jobs and rehabilitation and other things. There's some 2,000-3,000 in rehabilitation. If we say 5,000 want to go to work for some reason, we're talking about, considering we're getting the same number as Swedes, that 1,500 would never come back in. We know that one of the great causes of disability today is mental illness, is a major part of it, and the supporting system. It has to say to itself that the worst thing we do to people with mental illness is to isolate them at home, put them in corners, no one is thinking about what's going on, and we're just saying, "We're writing you off. As a result, people may receive energy assessments for the rest of their lives. Instead, it encourages everyone to go out on their own terms. I think it would be for working. I don't think we'll ever lose that, and I think if we went into this two-year experiment, we'd have a lot more to figure out how to build the system. We know that the social security system must be reimbursed and therefore this part too.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u90	Thank you very much. President. Hv. Kristinsson, I thank Guðmundur for Ingi answer. We share everything. Hv. In his talk and performance on the bill, a senator mentioned that there had been an experience in Sweden in this regard. It would have proved to be such that 30% of the microchip that the experienced option had gone from job to professional. That's fine. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator whether there have been more judges, more countries, in this regard. Sadly, we know from experience that those who first fell out of a work market when the valley's hard work, as it is currently, are those with limited energy. Of course, we hope that our time will be short, but we know that those who are first affected by unemployment are, in effect, desperate or weak for physical or spiritual reasons. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would also have discussed the magnitude of the cost in this regard, an effect on the welfare of the state. I'd like to underscore that I believe we can totally afford this. It's just a matter of priorities and how much civilization we're going to be and how we're going to treat our subjects. Has it been examined in some respects? [[The president calls.]] It's not easy, because it is so contagious in all respects.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Goddess of the Brjánsson Thomson for these questions. He asks if it was checked somewhere else. Yes, I've only tried to find out. Through a review of the social security system, we got to know the system in Denmark. We also knew of the operation system installed in Britain. We've got a full movie on how that system went down completely. It created a operating system, which was just one computer that made a decision and said yes or no, whether a person was employed or not. Then he asks if the cost of the State had been investigated. The matter is that only the cost of the State will be good. The government receives income, the cost is the same as it is now. The government has to pay these people disability anyway. Money insurance needs to be paid and a lot of benefits and people can work for 109,000 bucks. But these 109,000 bucks. It's just that it's so binding. It puts people in trouble because they must always be watching not to go over this number. And it is cruelly punished. No one realizes this until he is in a situation where he has to cope with the terrible losses of every year that are being taken back so much. We're talking about 80 to 90% tax on income. If you get a hundred thousand bucks. is being retried at 80,000,900,000 k. Who does that? The super-payer gets 100,000 bucks. only 46,000 k is taken. To his taxes. It's a cruel system. I am convinced that this will bring good health to the people and health systems and to all of us for good because we are to build a human system, not as hostile as they are today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u92	A respectable president. I recommend here for billing to correct the change in clock fees, No. 138/2013, about a person's salary at an apartment house. The broadcasters of the bill are Vilhjálmur Árnason, Óli Björn Kárason, Páll Magnússon, Njáll Friðbertsson, Bártístísdóttir Haraldsdóttir Níelsson, Friðriksson, and Jón Gunnarsson. The bill has been delivered several times before, and it should be noted. Minister of Justice, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir, then a member of Parliament, took the case in the first place, and removed it now. The bill suggests that a stamp charge due to the purchase of individuals in an apartment house should be taken away. In general, individuals should be paid 0.8% for the purchase of an apartment building but at the time of the first purchase, half of the pay is given. If the bill is legal, the fee will drop completely because of the purchase of individuals in apartment housing, and the release will not be limited to first purchases. The objective of the bill is to make it easier for people to get an apartment building and to increase efficiency and flow to the market through an apartment building. There is a great need to make it easier for people, as it were, to obtain housing, especially under conditions such as those now in a housing market. It is shown that clock charge has an effect on the rise of real estate prices, reduces supply, and reduces the share of buyers and sealers. From the above point of view, the removal of a plunger charge of real estate transactions will facilitate the production of housing markets with the expected increase in availability at least over the past few years. Although the bill was delivered several times, this has not changed. I'd like to mention that it is a huge matter of freedom to succeed, freedom to the families of the country. We have seen that the removal of credit cards from loans made in 2013 reminds me, or 2014, had a huge impact on the mortgage market. Now people are refinances and interest rates have been decreasing, and people may be changing from prices to disloyal loans. This has created a huge loan market that has benefited only from consumers and homeowners. The effect may be expected to be no less from this bill. It is believed that there is a large part of the welfare community that it is a good and practical housing market, with housing issues being discussed with one of the labour agreements after another. We saw how much the biographer deals were made. The topography was there, based on special policy, and all research shows that people want to live in their own homes. There are very few people who want to be rented. Iceland's tenure market also has a long way of becoming developed, it is now the most driven because individuals rent their homes. He needs to change a lot. Here is the ideal way to make the house market even more open and work more effectively with natural prices and such. As is the case today, the change of housing costs a great deal. When buying their first home, young people often have to invest their money ahead of time in order to invest in the future. Young people who are buying their first apartment may not be able to bring a mate, or they are bringing a mate, not children, and they need to invest a few years in the future when they are brought by a mate, and one, two, three children. Because changing housing is so costly and complicated, we need to think ahead. The offer is not that much either. There's a lot to play in. Dating stamps makes it easier for these people to change their housing. If the family pattern changes, it is easier to leave a small home that is more convenient. And then there may be more of the larger facilities available because for older ones who have made use of their large homes and who want to reduce back, housing has also become cheaper, for the older citizens whom we had just discussed in the preceding article. This too is a great cost to them. There are so many factors in which this cost has a very inhibitory effect. But speaking of the young family, which often needs larger housing when it is growing. If it's not the first apartment, it doesn't get a discount on the clock today, and it's probably only half a discount. As the family grows and does not have large facilities and needs to grow, the cost of being on a reduced salary is high in most cases during the maternity. A change of housing is always needed, a sales fee and a setting up and a variety of basic work. Paying high credits also often obliges the purchase. When we look at the whole thing, it's a lot of good stuff to cut down the clocks. This fosters the special policy most people want. This will increase family freedom to adjust the size of families, allowing them to do so much better, contribute to the supply and the more efficient housing market, which would hopefully reduce home expenses. I've talked a little bit about how often your housing business is involved in agreements, and we're getting a lot of initials here at the council over and over again about general apartments, stock loans, and rent markets. We are always trying to influence the housing market. But we see it, as I mentioned earlier with the loans, that to make the market work and to be active, it has simplified them, such a general operation like this, to reduce the cost of changing housing and other such, the best option. This is not a specific resource. Rather, it is a general tool that applies to everyone and that develops the cheaper market, most likely, as we have seen the borrowed process, and the more active it becomes, and it becomes easier to move within it. Then we are reaching so many of the same goals that we are trying to achieve by means of these special measures that come here over and over again and cost enormous amounts of money. According to financial figures, it costs up to 5 billion to cancel this fee, that's the income of the current budget, which is only taxes. But if the housing market is active and there's business, I don't see this at the price of 5 billion. This is just another tax from an apartment building. It's supposed to be taken care of, and I think that when home stands strong and housing markets become more active, there'll be more business, more money, more money, and money, through real estate sales and construction and other things. In the end, it will be quite practical for a nation, obviously. This will solve very many problems in the housing market, which we are often dealing with here, by a general procedure, and the examples illustrate this. I suggest that the case goes to the Economic and Business Committee, hoping that there will be good coverage and that we will now let this case be completed for the benefit of the entire council. This is something that everyone does, for there is much more that he wants to have his own home. We want to expand that group. So it is a very general matter that helps many, and we should unite in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u93	A respectable president. I hereby propose an action form on the use of algae. With me in this case, the party of the forward party is, of course. paritaprevir Signý Signor Kristjánsdóttir, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir and Willum Thor Þór Þórsson The proposal involves that the Council of Environment and Resource Ministers, in agreement with marine economists and agricultural administrators, ordering a team of workers with the objective of assessing the potential for further use and valuable development of algae, and implementing a two-fold strategy to support legal development and implementation of marine and marine fertilities. The Action Programme includes the following tasks and actions: First, define the legislation for use of algae that grow in water inside or outside the grid, is cultivated inside or outside the grid, or is cultivated on land. Second, action programme includes suggestions on motivation to create and use algae in a sustainable way and to increase the value of the country. Third, action programme includes suggestions on how to ensure sustainable development of all types of algae. Fourth: An action programme includes suggestions on strength to pursue sustainable development of algae, build up a position to reap algae, develop production of goods made from algae, and markets for the products from algae. Fifth: proposals to strengthen the Rapporteurs and to increase the expertise in parenchymal development within relevant institutions. A summary of the implementation plan shall be provided as late as March 1, 2021, and the minister shall submit a proposal for a government interpretation in terms of microchip development as late as May 1, 2021. That was quite a list, though, the highest. President, there is much to consider in this regard. The reason that the person listed here felt the need to win a Senate resolution proposal such as that is the growing market for algae and their products in the world. These are often very expensive products, and thus they make a great deal of value. Here in Iceland, as we all know, are ideal conditions for both sea-industrial and agricultural development. At this point, the laws we are now supporting are a fish - farming law, which embraces the culture of algae in the land or at least some part of it. And then we have a new law on the use of sea plants. The person and the cohesor believe that this needs to be done more clearly and to distinguish national legislation on the subject, and on the other hand, because these are very different species, although the pretext of all this is pa·rou·siʹa. So it's very confusing. It's over there. It's a seagull, it's wrapped around all these species. And then we have little algae on one side, which is then cultivated on land, and then we have a seaweed that produces, as most know, great sea forests. Third, it is swollen. This is, for example, the case. Recreate with a heart beat, and it grows much higher. There is growing in the sea, where he has been purchased, and taken up with a furrow of a furrow. This separating in the legislation is not clear enough, so these items need to be better considered, what to improve, and in what ways and, as indicated in my list, to create motivation. It is also very important that, along with all this work, the Marine Research Institute is assured of funding for the research and monitoring of the impacts on environmental growth, as this has to be done in a sustainable way. We must protect nature and take care of it. The case is now quite extensive, interesting, and inexplicable. Here, for example. Government policies, the Paris Convention, the blue economy, and the source of information that is of interest to those interested in this subject; detailed definitions of the seams, intestines, and scarrings, etc. which I was trying to explain in very short terms. But what matters to me is, as we have learned, that we make a strong contribution to the development and development of algae here in Iceland, that legislation is good and that there are incentives so that we can create valuables and that we can use the circumstances to the full. But the less important thing is the approach to climate. I'd like to read a portion of the report on the climate and the market for algae that has to do with this opportunity for a treasure, but I would like to mention, at first, the highest. President, Iceland's land weekend is as big as France. We have a clean, massive stream of water, so we have so much space and good conditions, and surely several companies are already off to start that recognize these opportunities, and more are in the load. The news of a company in Húsavík, which was preparing for work on the seaweed, is that many have turned on the lights. But we governments are behind my opinion, and we need to run faster for sustainable use, and so that those who choose to enter this scene can be confident that the structure is solid. Mr. President. About the climate. As the process does not require water use, fertilising and toxic use, the use and need to be limited by areas of the environment, there is minimal environmental impact. Data suggest that sustainable development methods on the poultry do not adversely affect the environment in the long term. Inland and other parts of the world, sea lines culture is also likely to increase carbon binding and thus work against acidification. Iceland is part of an OSPAR deal dealing with the protection of the North East Atlantic. The acidification of the sea is an additional product of carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere and thus consumes an increased amount of carbon dioxide. This results in metabolism that reduces the acidity of the marine environment, which is harmful to marine life. Jón Ólafsson, professor of oceanology, said that the acidification of the sea is faster along the coasts of Iceland than in other seas around the world. Research has shown that the sufferers are about 400 times more active than trees in the binding of carbon dioxide; they are not only more efficient in carbon binding, but they need much less space than trees grow. As already mentioned, algae produce at least half of the oxygen we draw by photosynthesis. Some scientists believe that this ratio is 90%. Black species have different growth rates, but there are species that can grow more than six inches [65 cm] a day and have ten times their vital mass in 6 properly. Sequence is not only a nutritious food product that produces large amounts of oxygen but also the use of algae for production of biofuels and feed, and it can be used as an aquaculture. Some microspheres are rich in oil and can produce biofuels that replace carbon dioxide from the air. Biofuels can be produced in large quantities so that they can replace imported fuels and thus reduce the negative impact of fuel use on the environment. Biofuels can become valuable exports, but with production they can save both currency and extra exports. Once biofuels are processed from algae, the rest of them can be used to produce valuable food for fish farms as well as feed for chickens and pigs. Clearly, then, the sustainable development of algae and its increasing use can help to reduce pressures on other ecosystems, reduce climate change impacts, and have positive effects on marine ecosystems. The possibility of further use of algae for environmental benefits is thus high and could be the key to solving any of the challenges facing us to ensure future food security. Then it can be said that the future is now, so it is not later advisable to start using this sustainable resource that is found in our shores and oceans. Mr. President. A little more about the function of the algae. Housemates are truly super food. They often contain more vitamins than fruits and vegetables, and they are also a richer source of minerals, trace matter, and various biological substances than most of their origins. Some species also have high levels of protein. This surprises many. As I said, the world market for algae is big, and it's growing. We know that countries in Asia have long practiced extensive production in the intestine, and areas in North America have gained considerable experience. The Dutch have become quite prominent in this field, both in small algae and in the breeding of thongs. So countries are well along and far. Here in the country, various companies are starting on these issues. Better still, there is Rhoolla, where the fish has been purchased at the Breafjörður. This production has made a big difference for this structure, so this is just as much a settlement if we see an opportunity to grow around the country. According to Report Linker's report on the global market for algae since July 2020, it is estimated that 91.8 billion is covered in the year 2020. a dollar and predicted that it would grow to $3.1 billion in 2027. The growth is enormous. The report also shows that there is a growing demand for food and drinking products based on algae. Its producers are also adding microspheres to their products in order to increase the nutritional value of the product. At the present time, these companies produce a large range of the lips of the algae. It is, in fact, there. Find an antioxidant, protein, flavour and pigment. Now you can find some of the products that are based on some of the products of faunas in restaurants around the world, beers as well. It is also found in cosmetics, healing creams, and many other products, such as paint products and toothpaste, tires, and various kinds. We're surprised. This whole thing is amazing. Global growth rate is estimated to be 7.4% per year through 2024 and in 2024 there will be an estimated 1.1 billion national dollars, according to the analysis of the Marine mall from November 2019. Many companies are taking their first steps in this area, and the growth in this article is likely to be quite serious in the coming years. Mr. President. I can see that my time is running out, but the report is part of the case and can be found on the Web site of the Generals, so those who have been observing this discussion may be more familiar with it. I hope the General accepts this proposal and will soon remove it and safely.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u94	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a bill for a change in the law of partnerships, the laws of private partnerships, the social law and the law of partnerships. They go out on wooden layers due to the ratio of gender in control. Transporters to this bill are why. Councilmen Elíasdóttir Fräðurfjörðurfjörður Elisdóttir, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Hallódora Mogensen, Hanna Friðriksson Kristjánsdóttir, and Sæland Hailand, together with the one standing here, Magnúsdóttir Huðan Island Magnúsótir. Chapter I is a change in partners law, with subsequent changes, and then says: ◯ At 77 str. A new paragraph of the law will be added, as follows: A partner list can provide day-to-day benefits to a partner who does not comply with Article 4. 1.mg. Twenty-seven. Pay the day tickets until a partner informs a partner file that the percentage of each sex is not less than 40%. Today's fines can study from 10,000 K. ... toa hundred00,000K. daily. The decision to make a dollar of a day's fine can be made to consider the financial strengths of a social group. Dags are running into government funds, and they're mobile. The minister is permitted to set further rules for making a decision and to collect day's fines in the Regulation. Then there's Il. Chapter, Change of Private Shares Act, with subsequent adjustments. 2.g. It reads: ◯ At 126. gr. The law adds a new paragraph, as follows: A list of shares can put day-to-day items on a private body that does not comply with the regulations of the 3rd and 4th. 1.mg. Thirty-nine. Pay off the days until a private partner informs a partner file that the percentage of each species is not less than 40%. Today's fines can study from 10,000 K. ... toa hundred00,000K. daily. The decision to make a dollar of a day's fine can be made to consider the financial strengths of a social group. Dags are running into government funds, and they're mobile. The minister is permitted to set further rules for making a decision and to collect day's fines in the Regulation. III. A chapter reads: Implementation of social law, No. 2/1995, with subsequent changes. Section 3. At 152nd par. The law adds a new paragraph, as follows: A list of shares can apply day by day to a society that does not comply with regulations 2 and 3. 1.mg. Sixty-three. Pays the daily fines until society announces its partner file that the percentage of each sex is not less than 40%. Today's fines can study from 10,000 K. ... toa hundred00,000K. daily. The decision to make a dollar of a day's fine can be made to consider the financial strengths of a social group. Dags are running into government funds, and they're mobile. The minister is permitted to set further rules for making a decision and to collect day's fines in the Regulation. And finally, IV. Chapter, change of partner-friendly law, with subsequent changes, 4.g. Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: 5:30 p.m. The law's coming up with a new article, 51 st. a, as well as a heading, as follows: Dags finest. A fire file can make a date on a partner enterprise that does not follow Article 3 of it. 1.mg. 13th par. Pay the day tickets until a partner informs the firm that the ratio of each sex is not less than 40%. Today's fines can study from 10,000 K. ... toa hundred00,000K. daily. The decision to make a dollar of a day's fine can be made to consider the financial strengths of a social group. Dags are running into government funds, and they're mobile. The minister is permitted to set further rules for making a decision and to collect day's fines in the Regulation. And 5. It reads: ▪ This law goes into effect on January 1, 2022. This bill contains a report. I'll go over her a little bit: A similar bill was presented for 149th legislation, 186th suit, and for the 150th legislation, 19th case, but was not granted. Now this case is being delivered for the third time, and all is already three, so I have the feeling that the matter will get into the Senate Hall for votes and get a positive result and be accepted. That's what I'm expecting. The bill suggests that if laws about gender proportions are not followed, it will be protected from day - to - day fines. This subject was discussed with a professional health - care committee at the 148th legislature, and the committees met. with representatives of the female business community that referred to the situation in this country, it would be unacceptable to the proportion of women in the management board. So the Society repeated a review of the matter to the Economic and Business Committee at the 150th legislation. With law No. 13/2010, for the change in partner law and private partnership law, there were laws on gender proportions in the partner control. The regulations came to true value on September 1, 2013, so a time of adaptation was given. With law No. 49/2011 was made comparable changes in Community law and Community law. This means that since there are more than 50 employees on average on a yearly basis, whether sex controls a group of three men or not, however, when there are more than three executives, it should be ensured that the proportion of each sex is not less than 40%. In Norway a law on sexuality was adopted in the governments of a larger partner in 2003. It included a number of representative members of each sex in accordance with the number of members of the management board and that the contribution of each member of the board to a minimum of 40% in governments with which there are more than nine subjects. Following the introduction of the Norwegian Law, the percentage of women in the administrations of a partner increased from 6% in 2002 to 40% in 2011. The proportion of women in the management of large companies in Norway increased from one fourth of the executives in 2004 to 36% in 2006, reaching 42% in 2009. According to Sissel Jensen, a Norwegian economist, the increased share of women is among those who receive the highest pay of direct consequences of sexuality. Women are more given the opportunity to be among the highest rulers when the government itself is made up of both men and women. These findings match the purpose of the law, i.e. that more women are being given the opportunity to influence business affairs. Although Iceland has followed the example of Norway, with the legislation on sexual sexuality in the administrations of a partner, Iceland has failed to achieve the same success. The lead-in period was given for inclusion of a command for gender proportions in governments, but the ratio has not been equal to that of regulations in effect has not been adhered to. According to information provided by Iceland's Habitat, 26.2% of the management companies were paid and enrolled in a partner list at the end of 2018. These proportions have been approximately unchanged since 2014 to about 26%. There was no significant change in 2019 C.E. when the proportion of women was 26.5%. By 2018, the proportion of women in enterprises with more than 50 employees was 33.5% and only increased by 1% in 2019 to 34.7% of companies with or more 50 employees. Therefore, the movers believe that it is time to make a legal statement that it is permitted to place day - to - day fines on enterprises that do not require the percentages of gender in governments to achieve their aims. Although there is considerable intervention, transporters feel the need to take such measures in order to set a gender ratio in partners, private partners, partner partners, and partner partners to achieve their target. At the same time, the legislator may be permitted, despite the Constitution's property rights, to set the freedom of action required for normal and objective reasons. Thus the report reads with this fine language, which I consider to be a great deal of justice, as well as equality. Of course, it is normal for law to be carried out. Of course, if this has not been the case since the law went into effect, but it has been seven years since the previous law was accepted, some action must be taken to make it known that it has not passed. It is only natural for us to follow in the footsteps of our northern cousins, who have comparable laws and laws. We've warned those involved, since this case has been before the council for two years, and this is the third year. We go very slowly about the possible adaptation of the enterprise, of course, a thing that should be lighted long ago, and allow delay so that the law does not take effect until January 1, 2022. I think it's a long, long-term adjustment period to show a little bit of initiative, and then we'll sort it out. No one will be betrayed because of the increased strength of women in the governments of these communities. Business life has benefited from the increased participation of women in the past few years, and we also need to provide them with a normal path into corporate governments and enforce these laws. Of course, it would have been good if such laws had not had to be passed at the time, but there seems to be a lot of slowdown in changing attitudes in the means of paying the way of everyone, whether there are men or women, in order to influence, control companies and to be influential partners in business and business life in the country. I think it's for the benefit of everyone that where access is equal and the lot of women isn't served there. I trust that this case will receive a good welcome and will be accepted into the Senate Hall for coverage and votes in due time. I suggest that the case be referred to. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-22-14.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Electrical Island for the talk and for giving this bill. I'm one of the importers, or maybe I should say co-ordinates, because it seems to me that this time it's just women who carry this bill. But I think this bill has nothing to do with all of us. I think it's really a harsh economy. First of all, we have laws on gender equality or gender ratio in control. We will discuss much these days on law and penalties, recommendations and regulations, and I have noticed that the media are now asking questions at Covid times, when there are all kinds of recommendations and even regulations, how they will be followed and whether there are guilty regulations. People seem very busy with the fact that police officers are to enforce both the recommendations and the regulations involved and are to be fined. But I haven't heard much going over the discussion about why guilt is not used when the law is broken about the percentage of genders in governments. We have an example that there is something in the law without a guilty warrant. But we also have a clear example of the fact that once such has been introduced, the law has been more successful in enforcing it. A annual bill file, or a return of annual accounts, may be one of the best examples of this. They were not demanding good enough until they were shocked to post guilty warrants. Then, each year's annual accounts improved. So it's not that complicated. It's really easy to stand here and just say, "Hey, we have songs." It turns out that people do not enforce these laws. So, what do we do? Is it not reasonable to have the tax or the annual bill enforce the law? They feel that they need legal requirements in order to enforce the law. Thus, it can be said that the matter is very simple, and it is really surprising that we have not agreed to it. The second is to discuss whether it should be a law and a discussion of equality. I have to admit that I don't like to stand up in the Generals' symposium discussing equality with some sexuality, just not at all. I really don't like it. Sadly, though, the situation is that we need it. I am getting anxious and tired of waiting, and it does not just lean back and wait for what I want, wait for the whole thing to go away. The numbers show us that it's not gonna happen. Sadly, history shows that we have not achieved this, and there is something that we need to do about it. I think it's also very important to remember this discussion, that equality has actually become export products in Iceland. We're in the first place on equality, and we've been doing it for the last 11 years, if I remember correctly. We have a special ambassador for equality. When foreign politicians come here to talk to us or to the minister of foreign affairs, there are very frequent discussions of equality, and we ask how we have achieved the results we have achieved. But I think we need to be careful to keep our position, because it matters to us. In the foundation, of course, there is an equal issue of economics, for of course we should use both sides. In fact, it is foolish to believe that we are in some way, cultural or otherwise, to rule out another sex from taking advantage of our opportunities. That's why I've said, "I've got equal opportunities." A law on the equal number of genders in governments was adopted in 2010, to remind me, with a validation in 2013. Not everyone agreed to go that way at the time, and I understand that. I totally understand the view that this is where we're entering societies and that people should determine themselves how their companies are. You can put yourself in it, and you can understand that view. Nevertheless, this law was adopted at a council, and as I know, no one has proposed a bill to eliminate that law. Then the situation is that we have these laws. We see that they are not being carried out, and in this room we need to respond in some way. Here's a suggestion that fines can be taken. This may need to be adapted to a committee and better considered whether or not the application is correct. I trust each other. A professional health committee is well qualified to do that. But this is something that has turned out well, to have some kind of penalties to make sure that the law is followed in the country, and that, of course, I support.
