ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u1	Mr. President. Despite the fact that we are here at a council meeting to complete issues that involve support for the special media that are in a difficult business environment, it is clear that we have a lot of excellent media people who are doing an invaluable job for Icelandic society. There is a great increase in the Icelandic media, as proposed for the press prizes, but that prize will be given right now on Friday. Last night, Kleenen had just another strong coverage in the VR, a coverage that probably left a few looking unscrupulous. The subject was poor in Icelandic society. Although this situation may not necessarily be surprising, it was difficult and tragic to experience reality in our small poverty - dealing society, even growing up in poverty and being out of the park in Icelandic society, prejudice, and the need to use all its means of making ends meet. It is simply a miserable thought and unacceptable fact that not all children will have the opportunity to thrive in Iceland. The program featured a report on poverty that appeared over seven years ago by a team of cooperaters on an even better community. The point of the work was that the community's support should promote human dignity rather than the kind of charity, should be guided by the strength of people rather than by weakness. The fact is, it takes a lot of strength to survive the situations in which the poor live in our society. This report has many and varied suggestions for improvement and suggestions in many places, so instead of ordering more groups, which can be called on to make decisions immediately and take action. At first, housing must be protected, protected, and protected by all people. We cannot and should not accept a community in which children face intense pressure at school and families cannot profit from paying the price for their school meals. Can we not agree on the priorities of taking action that is needed to eliminate this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u2	Mr. President. The Senate has just ended. The town was on one board replaced with new emphasis being proclaimed by the Coalition Board. There is good reason to wish for a new leadership and to prosper in moving agriculture closer to modern land, consumer demand, and growing innovation. This will be most important by rethinking the agricultural funding system from its foundation, making it efficient, open, and beneficial. It turns out that direct financial support for agriculture is worth billions of dollars, a system that is shut down and omnipresented. The first step of a new model for farmers should be to call for information on the provision of this money to be available to all, broken down, sustained, and established throughout Europe. That would truly be a declaration of changed practices. That's where farmers are supposed to take the lead. Public trust and support for farmers are valuable things that they must be careful not to tear down. Recently, I asked for support in the sheepfold as the highest. Agricultural minister did not rely on him to answer, stating that it was forbidden. So I was happy to see an article in the core today after Ólafur Arnalds, where he explained that the decision - making committee of information had decided in his favor, but he was looking for information of a similar nature. I believe that the highest. Agricultural minister will cut back quickly from answering my previous inquiry. I'll also request further information on agriculture provision. In fact, I've thought to apply myself to the law of public duty to publish publicly the evidence of all those who are strengthened and inquisitive for employment or specific projects. It is part of growing trust and transparency in society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u3	A respectable president. March 8th. has been 30 years since the development of the Hormours. Strategies were formed as an organization against sexual abuse. The conclusion was that there were several volunteer groups of women who had come to a similar situation and had decided to form an organization. Strategies were formed on the women's day of conflict in 1989. It took a huge step and an important part of the women's rights struggle. Today, Gang contrary works as a counseling and supportive center for both women and men who have been victimized by every form of sexual abuse. A respectable president. I would like to take this opportunity to say: "Thank you. Thank you, you women who took this step. Thank you for the women who were given the opportunity to step forward, relieve themselves of heavy loads, and receive hearing, thereby healing. Thank you, you women who took that step and stopped the silence that was taking place in our community. Thirty years ago, this subject had not been taken care of by the medical system and had been viewed by the court system. Despite the legal penalty for sexual abuse, those who fell into sexual violence had to climb the 60 - year - old hammer in search of justice. In the first decade, they worked on the most important project, but it was getting up and opening up this discussion and thus fighting for improved society and the open and accepted debates about sexual abuse. When that discussion began, society began and, fortunately, the social and health authorities have maintained their present - day environment toward a more healthy discussion in these issues. The discussion has also opened the way for the results of violence and, thereby, a variety of treatments to strengthen the tolerance to live with it. Despite the fact that the objective of the Roads has been achieved by opening up society's discussion and acknowledging the tragic consequences of this violence, society must constantly promote these scenes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u4	A respectable president. I say, thank you so much for the trigger show last night. He spoke the following words, with the permission of a president: ▪ The tens of thousands of Icelanders live in poverty that limits their prospects. According to Economics figures, there are 28,000,35,000 people under the low income limit, including the poor, of whom up to 10,000 are children under 16 years of age. Also noted were large groups of people who receive social benefits, disability benefits, unemployment, pensions, and low - paying jobs. There's another group that's just above the minimum limit. What is it like to live in poverty, even for the rest of our lives, and how is it possible to grow up in poverty? What effect does poverty have on people and families? In poor people, the life expectancy is reduced by 10 to 12 years. The average life span of the poor was reduced by about 10 to 12 years compared to the rich. This is ridiculous, and to our great shame. Under these are single parents, disabilityrs, low - paying parents, and their children. 10,000 children who grow up not just to poverty but to 3,000 in very poor health. Not being given the same opportunities as other children, they are in danger of suffering poverty, poor health, and poor health for the rest of their lives. Poor people cannot wait any longer, but they still wait for righteousness, wait, and wait and refuse to eat well, health care, medicine, and living in decent homes. No, stuck in the grip of poverty, government rule by government. That is why a group of people was formed. That's why we're Sæland hailand at the Council. We're number one, two and three fighting for no one to live in poverty, let alone the very poor that sucks in our society today. In this context, it is surprising that it takes more to maintain 28,000,300,000 people in poverty than to eliminate poverty immediately. A group of people says: "Let's quit immediately, for example. to pay the price of poverty. We can afford it, but we can't afford not to.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u5	A respectable president. Recently, we had a need for a discussion at the council on innovation outside the capital area. A few days ago, the Minister decided to leave Iceland's New Creation Center. What will happen is truly of concern. It is quite different with innovation, science, and development in the region, or here on the southwest corner. It is crucial that the scepters are allowed to flourish in this time of the whole country. We have a few of these, and I have only a random name in my district, Kerecis at Isafjord, BioPol on Skaga Beach, and I'm just sitting at the sheep's station, Skakki 3X at Avéri and Isenfi, which is, in fact, not a start-up company, but a powerful manufacturing company, a business-based river. All of this gives evidence of intelligence, enigma, and boldness. Those serving in the country mentioned to me that it seems that they have more difficulty making support for their development and innovation. Some say that credibility works in a different way than those employed by almost sponsors, is more visible, familiar, lacking confidence and faith in the work of the country. It is often a thought - provoking feature of applications, and this may make a difference. The number of government workers in the country has decreased, and the New World Translation Centre for Iceland is now being completed, six standard values, most of which were 13 in the country. A new creation center has long been a small sceptre company with knowledge and guidance on research grants. It has brought about a situation similar to that of mass travel costs when key institutions need to be consulted in the southern capital area. A respectable president. It is fundamental that we are able to increase the number of people with expertise in the country, promote diversity, and the potential for applying for hard competition for research. This is where there's active development sites and community centers all over the country just like melts for ideas and innovation projects. Here we need to move forward and stand still.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u6	Mr. President. I was thinking, like, last night, about Iceland's poverty coverage. Poverty is a lesion that should not be passed on in our rich society. Of course, the reasons why people lose their feet are many, but no matter how given at the beginning, no matter what trauma, our social network is to grab people, help them get up, and see how they can live with dignity. Living in a trailer in a cold country during the winter does not meet that requirement. I'm going to ask the Minister of Social Affairs about how many people are in the position of living in Iceland but living in a home that's not registered in a real estate file. I think it is important that we consider how we can best meet this group so that everyone in this country can have adequate housing. It is not important to which community society already resides in the way the social network operates, as it was yesterday. Of course, the challenge is whether we can compare success with finding ways in which Iceland is not only a rich society but also a more just society where security catches those who stumble, where all the people have a safe house to protect, where children are not raised with want and overwhelming anxiety. This righteous society is not the ultimate task. That is a challenge that keeps changing. We are heading in the right direction during this ideal period with hundreds of thousands of child reforms to families with the lowest income, with changes in tax systems, and with housing initiatives, many of which have already been successful. The situation of troubled tenants and huge partnerships between state and housing partners has lifted pressure on housing markets, but we are not at the finish line, as the target is moving. Governments and rural communities need to reevaluate measures so that they can meet those who have no home or live in unassigned and unacceptable housing, so that our social systems are able to achieve their targets, so that no one needs to be trapped in a poverty trap. I don't have the solution, but by listening, by following the advice of those who best know how to reduce poverty, I believe we can move closer to the righteous society that Iceland is supposed to have.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u7	Mr. President. I want to talk about food production in Iceland. It's about to be a food policy for Iceland, and it's very important that I take up the massive food production that is now in marine farms, both salmon, rainbows, and also on land. It is said that there is a wide and wide increase in the world's productions in sea farms, where we are members of the Icelanders. There are plans to increase the production at home, e.g. has been won by Bilddal in February and sold to about 1,000 tons of about 12,000 meals. Last year, about 10,000 tons were slaughtered, an estimated 12,000 tons were planned to be slaughtered this year. This is an enormous amount, and we need to build wood so that we can stand by this new article, which will help us Icelanders to earn and receive money. This discussion of poverty did not help us to get funding in the Kingdom box just to be with poor people in the land and to improve their prospects. Targets outside have been shut down for salmon, but when they open again, e.g. In China, we make a deal with China that makes it easier for us to get our raw materials out there on the market than many others, like the Movers. The global market for salmon is 2 million tons per year, so this is an enormous opportunity for us as a nation to be participants in food production and to sell products from Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u8	President. Now it is time to transfer the children, Kayan, Saja, Saja, Jadin, and their parents to Greece. I say with force because, understandably, this family does not want to move from safety in Iceland to an inhuman and unacceptable situation in Greece, which can be said to be depressed under pressure. I say by force because the Icelandic government, this government, is not going to give this family a choice to live here and do its part in society. I say in my power because the treatment of refugee deportation often includes the removal of children from police in the middle of the night to move them out of the country against their will. A respectable president. There is nothing in the current legal code that obliges us to escort children along with police escorts to Greece. On the contrary, we have responsibilities toward children, their interests, and their safety. On the contrary, we have rich sources and a strong moral obligation to protect these children, welcome them, and give them peace. All it takes is a political will, but the will is not there. Of course, I'm not surprised to hear it. The Justice Minister of Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir continues the many years of the Independence Party of Systemic nonhumanity with refugees and to keep it clear was the highest. The prime minister of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter was fully aware of this year - long task of the Independence Party when she joined that party. She concluded that along with her cooperation, she was sacrificing less interests for more. I challenge the highest. Prime Minister to restore your priorities. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u9	A respectable president. Lately, in a discussion about Covid-19, I've been doing it in our good society that people tend to point out something else, e.g. whether employers should pay a salary for people who are in a field of infection, for unions to do that, people just have to take it on themselves, like when they're trapped in a storm or something like that. I'd like to come up here and encourage all Icelanders and anyone living in this country to remember that when we share with them a threat like this, where all our interests lie, we must and should cooperate with the people who make sacrifices to protect our community. People who suffer from disease are offering a certain sacrifice. It is not a small matter for anyone to lose that amount of work and so much income, especially now that we are in a strike that greatly affects the ability of people to do their job. Now it's not necessarily about rules, it's not necessarily about whether the government should raise taxes or if employers should do this or this. I would just wish and hope that the employer will be patient with his employee, that the customer is patient with his employer, that we all show understanding of the sacrifices people, some of us, have to make for society. Let's get along with this. It's probably critical of the government's actions, which I'm sure are not perfect in this situation rather than in any other case. But when it comes to an individual, a citizen to a citizen, we are to show a sense of solidarity, especially if we see up until a difficult time, which we all hope will not be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u10	A respectable president. [[A shepherd injects cleansing gel into the palm and massages hands together.]] This took a total of 12 seconds, i.e. The special operation taken by the health authorities and the health - care professionals and others have suggested that we all take, as often, 12 seconds of our time. There are alcohol bridges and riots all over the Assembly Hall, and they are becoming very numerous in many parts of the community. Let's use them. Thus we protect not only ourselves but also those we really need to defend, i.e. the person most susceptible to getting difficult infections, such as the Covid-19 virus has been found to be. There is good reason to thank specific reactants. There is reason to thank especially a health care professional, the health - care system everything, and especially the public in the country for the way he has responded to basic counsel and information received from a health care professional. We are fighting a global epidemic that has a global mortality rate ranging from 0.5◯8%. If you're holding, good dog. Councilmen, from some developing country, 8% is not. The mortality rate is 8% from the United States of America. Half the time, it's South Korea. Above all, let's follow directions, let's get drunk, 'cause this is a job we have to work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the last speaker, huh? paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, about the matters we discussed on the welfare committee this morning, sent to those who are in charge of these matters, Þórólfur the son of Víðir, Reynisson, Guðnason. They do well with their people. I would like to make it a subject that the population of Southnes has grown by 32% since 2013, from over 21,000 to 27,000 inhabitants. The second largest increase in southern Europe is 17.5%. Of this number, about 23% have a foreign citizenship. Sixty percent of those out of work south of here have foreign citizenship, people who came here at the most, and we needed staff. Much of this group is going out of work. At the same time, contributions on Southnes are by far the least of what happens. It seems that since 2013, when I began to pay particular attention to this, I sat down at the council, we Southerns have been very much behind us when it comes to contributions to the community. I wondered, " Is it really normal for this hall to be a country's citizens, years and years after a year, to differ in this way? ' Also, money is not to discriminate its citizens. This is illustrated by a recent report made payable to every population in Smokejanestown, which is equal to 71,000 k. At the clinic. The second - largest development is at the National Institute of Health, U.S.A., with a total of 10,000 dollars in the Western world. Southland Health Institutes for 121,000 C.E. These types of donations and discrimination are intolerable, and they don't offer you any more.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u12	A respectable president. V.E.G. In recent years, however, the prime minister and secretary of finance said that provisions have increased so much. Since 2011 there have been no small amounts of income revenue. It has increased by 23%. A single mother in the first income with one to two children has increased by 29%, that's no small thing. At the same time, rent science has increased by 77.7%. There's no small thing, and that's a little something that happened to the trigger show last night, the root of the problem that was traced there is a problem of housing. The main manifestation of house - to - house trouble is underlying health problems, mental health problems, family problems, and social problems. It's a class problem because when you grow up in poverty you don't even know how to choose a job when you're out of high school or even high school. People only know a lot less possibilities and get into an environment than others have access to all. It's very interesting to watch the development of how we have tackled poverty in Iceland. Actually, it's not much. There is no analysis of how much it costs to fix the problem of poverty or just what poverty usually costs. In an article in the newspaper of News this weekend, Sif Sigmarsdóttir writes that poverty costs 82 billion pounds from health problems. She finally asks if we cannot afford to fix our poverty when it really costs us so much.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u13	Mr. President. In a few words, I'm going to respond to a talk. paritaprevir Brjánsson earlier on the New Creation Center of Iceland. That's right. That's right. A senator at the highest. The newest minister of Þórdís Kolbrún Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir has announced that Iceland's New Creation Center will be reduced to the present form. However, I thought that the senator mistakenly indicated that it would result in the removal of all the projects that have been involved in that institution and that the result would in some way be less support for innovation in the country than before. In this context it should be noted that this minister's proposal - which she introduces early, is to take force at the end of the next year and is expected to be a great work in its dominant action - is rooted in a major strategy taken in the last year on innovation policy for Iceland, and is certainly not expected to be less support, direct or indirect, with innovations before, on the contrary. However, the structure of the institution is being revised, and we will be in public discussion, both here and elsewhere, to make a distinction between the development process, such as in this matter, and then to the real support of the work involved. No one who's heard the highest. A minister or follow up on these matters is to be in doubt that her will and the government are the means by which they promote an environment of innovation in the land. However, there is a structure that needs to be reviewed regularly, and that is just what the minister is preaching.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u14	Mr. President. Transportation in the country depends primarily on the environment of airports in the form of a solemn talk. But what is the real situation and a forward - looking minister of transportation in these areas? For example, we might take the case of an Eelsstand Airport, whose business has been established until one year of age, which is, in fact, nothing more than a game of government spending. Earlier he had been estimated to be 18 million to five million. Despite solemn debates on the importance of this airport, however, it is not always easy. But there are more races. In this context, there is Húsavík Airport. The millions estimated to be five years old are numbered on the fingers of one hand. The situation here, Mr. President, is that the field's facilities are not normally granted minimum maintenance, and instruments are quite different. A Moksar truck and soy come from Akureyri when they were no longer suitable for it, and they work as employees of Húsavík Airport almost full-time workers to keep these devices running. The same was the case with a sand distribution truck, and he also came from Akureyri when the Akureyris could no longer use it. And this goes on, Mr. President, now the last bicycle shovel that was unusable to makkus at a airport in Akureyri. She's at Húsavík Airport now. Hence, you may ask yourself: " Is this in a transport program? A transport minister making Húsavík airport some kind of junkyard for the Akureyri Airport? Mr. President. Although the Parliaments are generally in favor of preserving old transportation, they do not accept the use of deforestation and unusable devices to support one of the country's main attractions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u15	A respectable president. A few years ago, Arctic issues were primarily concerns between scientists and experts. It's not anymore. The importance of the North has increased dramatically as climate and ice melts melt. The number of human development and globalisation have increased to the target area. There is an increased potential for transport and resource abuse. Thus, the Arctic language has gained greater weight in international politics. Iceland is a northern country, and we have enormous interest in the North. It is important that a sensitive northern ecosystem is cared for, and the development in the region is sustainable and peaceful. Northern affairs are at the same time foreign and environmental. A nation that has had everything under fishing must give high priority to the health of the sea. We have seen the effects of climate change on the fishing industry, and it is important to examine even more, increase knowledge, and know what is to come, as well as look for ways to minimize predictable changes. All major powers of the world have taken a course in northern states regardless of whether the kingdoms are northern or non - northern. Iceland's policy in northern affairs is from 2011 when Congress was adopted in this hall. So it is time to reconsider that course. It was thus well established that in our prehuman history in the Council of North Pole, a minister of foreign affairs was appointed to revise this policy. I've been assigned to lead them by committee, but it consists of representatives from all classes at the council. I expect a good cooperation and a lively, illuminating and interesting discussion about the threats and opportunities of Iceland in the north. I also hope that we shall succeed in achieving a joint conclusion on the design of Iceland's revised northern policy, a policy that we can then discuss, and hopefully adopt at the council. I have strong faith in it, a respectable president, that Iceland has an enormous opportunity when it comes to northern affairs. I'd like to see Iceland become a lot of scientific research in northern states and we could be some kind of home base for the innovation of environmental and northern civilizations. [[The president calls.]] I think there's a lot of opportunity here, and I'm looking forward to a future job.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u16	A respectable president. V.E.G. The prime minister has agreed to participate in a special discussion of conflicting votes in the general election, and I thank you for that. I also look forward to hearing the various opinions of other groups of speakers. This is a subject that rapidly divides people into groups, large capital areas on the one side and regional districts on the other. My goal of starting this discussion is not to demonstrate the discretion of one side above the other, since this discussion has two basic elements in a particular competition, even contradicting each other and the question that I would like to answer in the end is whether we can establish a democratic system that will take account of both of them. One of the principles is equal to votes. The other principle is the right of the inhabitants of the country and beyond to active democratic interest. In fact, some conflicting votes are actually inevitable in some way as long as the country is divided into a ideal, so it is acceptable that there is some space, but as an example, OECD does not recommend a balance of 10%. Today, however, the situation is nowhere near being so good in Iceland. It is almost twice as much with votes in the southwestern district, i.e. 99% stronger. According to the law, this difference cannot exceed 100%, since the number of members of Congress is about to change. For these reasons, little is needed to come to the northwestern standard for the loss of a senator according to Article 9. helming elections to the Generals, they bring the panel number of the largest district today, the Northwestern Cathedral, from eight to seven. If that senator moved to the Southwestern district, it would be moved from 13 to 14 by the number of two members of the Parliament of the southwestern district to the northwestern district. Yet, the Norwegian-West vote would be 60% more important than the votes in the Southwestern district so that it would continue to be super-involved. In other words, there would continue to be a marked difference between the votes and the Northwestern politics, but there would still be fewer proverbs. For 40th. The bill to a new constitution will require that the votes of voters all over the country go as far as possible and therefore accept that it is not necessarily possible to have them perfectly equal as long as the country is idealized. Then, in the same article, it is not an obligation to judge the land, and much less a certain number. All of this naturally raises the question, Is the only way to maintain a reasonable balance in the country with so few members of the United States making up the whole country as a single district? Possibly. There are advantages and problems. So I come to the other side, which is the self - determination right of a smaller community. When it is proposed to unite the country into a single economy, the concern, which in my opinion is logical, is immediately shown that if the country becomes a single economy, the decision line will always be centered around the Great Rygian region and will leave the regional districts behind. It may be asked, " Why would the need for interest be more organized by land than by e.g. Age or gender, however, remained likely correct. Political interest protection in the country would be more difficult, and my conversations with the voters in the country may suggest that it is difficult enough. The fear is of a real problem, seeing a lack of authority and a democratic inadequacy, that decisions are made in the Great People's District, regardless of the circumstances in the country, if the members of Congress are not elected for themselves. More or less, when something is to be done in the country that all Iceland can have in mind, people feel a great sense of distrust toward them, such as that people in the country may not be able to make informed decisions about the activation here or there. Then the decision - making decision to make in Reykjavík will suddenly be made by a community partner. Such a requirement for self - determination will bring an end to it. It is not enough, but there are interests in the big fortunes also very different, perhaps especially the northwestern standard, leaving the sky and sea between the circumstances of the citynes, and on the island of Isafa. Similarly, it would not be enough to simply cut down the larger terms, first of all because of differing interests in large but small terms and secondly because these require changes to the Constitution, which are indeed welcome to the one listed here. A respectable president. I could keep going, but the next half an hour of this discussion is going to give me a good listen. I look forward to the different viewpoints in these topics and to thank those who participate.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. The proponent, Hrafn Snæfni Gunnarsson, for setting up a program for a matter that is fundamental in every democratic community. It is important to review the story, since the debate on the importance of votes has not always been a matter of national interest. For example, when a general election was first adopted, the right to vote was limited, motivated by people's property, income, and taxes. It's interesting to read the story about this. For example, I was looking at a new book by Thomas Piketty in which he deals with the campaign system in Sweden in the 19th century and up to 1911, where one individual could, if he had enough property and returned enough tax returns, has a vote of up to 50% in the district he chose. When the election was instituted in Iceland, first 1843 by the decree of King Dana, it reached only men who owned the earth, at least At the start of the democratic election, these segregation talks were very prominent. Happily, though, we are past the systems of votes of acquired people. But at the same time, there have been compelling questions about votes between different parts of the country. Like what? A senator pointed out that the trend has been to match the terms of votes as well as to expand the terms along with the country's changing distribution. Since 1944 the Constitution has been changed to this purpose three times, in 1959, in 1984, and in 1999. By the 1999 administrative decree, the current organization was set up and removed from the ballot ships introduced in 1959, taking into account the terms of six or seven. It was adopted in a constitution that requires two-thirds of the vote at the General Assembly to change the rules of terms and proposals and the distribution of members of the Parliament, but it does not need to change the Constitution itself. Senators who vote directly are 54, while members of the so - called equation seats are nine, but only a political organization with more than 5% appendages can be considered for the distribution of an antlers. With this change, the rules of elections were simplified and balanced in terms increased, although there is still a difference between elections up to twice that. The current regulations of the Constitution, as modified, allow changes in terms of common law as approved by two-third votes at the General Assembly. It may be possible to use this authority to equalize a vote, such as the dog. A senator mentioned earlier, with some kind of infraction of the election. The campaign also measures a change in the number of terms and elections in individual election terms if there is a conflict of votes exceeding the limit of the law. If that is the case, it might be the case, as it were. A senator noted that such differences cross the line between the northwestern district and the southwestern district. Just as a democracies recommended that property and income status not govern man's rights, they generally measure with an increased equation on the impact of votes. Permissible discrimination is now up to 100%. If we look at the countries around us, the differences in individual terms are the most apparent in Norway, with the appeals most in the northernmost regions, up to 150% higher compared to the south, but in general, the votes are balanced in most Norway's states. The SE has also criticized Norway for its difference in opinion that the country will be one outstanding example. Then we'll come to the questions as easily as possible. A senator threw up here. What are we offering in order that the land will be one outstanding example? This was discussed in a reasoned study conducted on the review of the Constitution, including Presidents and executives, personal figures, elections, votes and votes. It was quite clear that after the discussion at the meeting, more people agreed that there was a more important objective of change that should be made in terms of votes. During this discussion, we might say that support has increased with an equation of votes. However, there are several ways, and not all of them have to focus on making the country that one outstanding thing is our concern to ensure some distribution between parts of the country and to ensure that all views are represented at the General Assembly regardless of their population. It has been noted that some form of compromise could be made, i.e. mix national terms, terms and individuality. It would certainly distract the system from what it is today, but I am not afraid of complications if goals are right and changes are made with reason and reason. [[The president calls.]] I have not, however, taken my stand on it. I want to reiterate, because now the President rings a bell, that this is not a matter of a simple solution, or that will be solved with one point of pen, so I welcome this debate. The apocalyptic. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. The advisor for taking this matter on. They are many and varied, the problems we have to deal with at the Council and find solutions. I myself do not think this is one of the most urgent things on board at this time. Although there are differences in votes between terms, the average between categories is quite balanced in my opinion. I think the variations from the fact that an additional body member gets an additional member by national scholarships -- we can review the discussion after the last election, where the Special Assembly got, if I recall correctly, one senator more than the United States. That caused quite a stir. I think that one member of the Parliament is an additional member of the Special Assembly compared to the United States Group is not a problem that specifically calls for the recording of this system in its entirety. At the same time, I think it's necessary that this not only be discussed very narrow. We must also look at the state of the country around the other arm, the executiveship, where the establishment system of the state, all the Ministry under the Constitution, will be located in the capital and, in fact, all the costs, and the availability of the country's administration is much more narrower than those living in the area between the White-year and the White-year if I use it. I encourage you not to get started on this matter by solving such a massive problem occasionally, but once in a while, one additional member of the advance team and not the United States. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u19	Mr. President. I think that as we approach these matters, we need to discuss them in the overall context as men have come in. If I could personally select a specific area of the constitution that I thought should be revised, that's exactly what it is. I've been against a number of ideas that have developed about the change in constitution in recent years, but if I were to choose from my list, that would be a change in vote, election, and election order in the country. I approach it so that members of Congress are elected to represent people, not for square miles, territory, or so on. Hence, it has to be made clear that people wherever they live in the land are always living right in this regard. I have not wanted to make this country one outstanding thing. I believe certain valuables are that members of Congress are elected to a certain part of the country rather than to be one of the ideals of the country. I think it connects the senators and their clients better, so I admit that, based on calculus, it may be that there is some way to cope with any discrimination. The difference today is too great in my opinion, and it is a worthy task to find ways to level mercy. It can be done to some extent within the current frame, but I declare myself completely open to look at other routes, whether they include the growth of their economy, their further fragmentation, or any other arrangement that can lead to a decrease in the difference from what is present. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u20	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion, which is good, useful, and important. I am a senator of the Southwestern district, where voters'votes are less important than in some parts of the country. In other words, it is more important that others and smaller parts of the country represent here than the territory I am elected for, including with the result that the group I represent, the Conspiracy, has one representative fewer than that. I do not agree with the view that it is a very special cause for rejoicing. The evidence for this is about the authority of those who live far from the established places of authority who are certainly a valid viewpoint. It is believed that it is important for everyone's voice to be heard and that everyone will have an effect no matter what the population may have. Okay, but I think we should try to get as close as possible to the rule that one man has one vote. I think it's just. In general, I have spoken of certain doubts about the concept of a nation as used in public discussion, as many would like to use it in a specific article and talk about the nation. It is spoken of as a form of life that has only one mind, one will, and one heart. I think our community is made up of many different groups of people who have different interests and perspectives. I think there are many national agreements, and I think this meeting should be the greatest reflection of many different nationalities. I think that next we'd be able to reflect the many different national wills in the community if there was one outstanding thing here and then there were decisions about the local interests of the country that would most be restored to the region. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u21	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion, because as the arrangement is in this country, it is important that we regularly consider these matters. Political equality does not necessarily equal votes, as it seems at first glance, and it was actually a good study of the early president of the discussion. A political equalism may be just the opposite. In 2013, Birgir Guðmundsson and Grétar Þór Eyþórsson, who work at the University of Akureyri, do well to discuss the importance of votes and political equality and seek to explain this in connection with democratic government. They conclude that there are other forms of equality. Undeniably, the political cover and the situation in which Congress often operates in one place, thus drawing closer to the environment of the Parliament is bound to be more important than the outside environment. The Generals will arrive, e.g. Most of the capital area. When I started my work here, I also soon realized that visitors on the committee are a very tight group. Here again and again the same people come into one case, much more from institutions and associates in the capital area, although there certainly are exceptions in matters that especially affect the country, such as planning and transport. In many parts of the world, understanding the view that there is a natural interest in the country according to the understanding that the urban population in capital capitals enjoys closeness to the center of political and economic power. It's, like, a... Acceptance both in Norway and in the United States [[The president calls.]] But how much discrepancies can be made, so another question arises.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u22	Mr. President. I'm going to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. In the foundation of the balance of princely rule, the democratic influence of all citizens of the country is equal. In this country, all of us live under the same law and have the same rights and responsibilities. I've heard the claim that if the vote is leveled, the whole country will just fall off. That could not be far from true to my knowledge. I believe that it is a national authority to destroy the idea that the Parliaments are primarily concerned, often with short - term interest, national or local settlements, whether in urban areas or rural areas. We are too small a nation to justify the political weddings and the sanctimonious pretexts of speech. We need empathy, understanding, and perspective that can be achieved by ensuring that members of Congress work to make the country all more competitive about quality of life, progress, and security. We will continue to speak for an equation of votes until it is assured in a constitution, fighting to ensure the equality of voters to sea and country. It's a public interest issue, and it's now revealed, so I'll testify in the words of the Supreme Court. The prime minister of the government's conversation with the nation in connection with the Constitution work, with an equation of votes, is a priority to the people of the country. That's not surprising. Now, however, the ball is with the government. What do groups that have been most beneficial to differing votes? Who will be given priority now? Can we not agree to settle this injustice? There is, indeed, a way. This has been shown in the discussion here. There are many at least More than one. It's just time to make a decision and finish this thing. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for this discussion and prime minister for participating in it. I think we're here to talk about the foundation of democracy. I cannot disagree more with Bergþór Ólason, a member of the Central Party, who discussed this. What is democracy? What Is Balance, and What Equal Opportunities? If we are to have democracy, equality, and balance, we must begin here. I think that's exactly what you're talking about. Therefore, we have not advanced in sexual equality and equality in society. We still have the inconsistencies that work in the constitution. Is it normal that in my district, the Southwestern district, 70,000 people, there are always two for each other in the second? This can't be right. It's not supposed to be like this, and it's not a democracy. There's no equal in this. Therefore, when talking about the 5% rule, we also have to ask that 5% will be required to attend the council: What are we talking about, then, about many dead votes in the southwestern district, or about the whole country? We're always creating some system that causes inequities. That's what we'd need to finish right away. We say we're a democracy, and we come to our hearts and say, "Yes, yes, we're going to have equality, we're going to be equal, and we're going to make sure that everyone is equal to the law in this country, but we don't. We don't start here. Here we are to begin and make sure for all time that we are a democracy and that everyone is equal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u24	A respectable president. In the 2013 election, dead votes fell as many as all voters in the northwestern district as they do. In the last election, then, the government could not have been created if the vote and count of votes were equal. That government was based on a systematic democracies. No wonder they became political instability! The present situation throughout the country, in the region, as in the capital area, is to blame for the present system. The code system is the result of the present arrangement in democracy, regional policy, equation fund, and all of this. This is the result of how we pursue politics today. I challenge people to say, "Is this a good system for the country? I can't get that message when I walk around the country and I ask how it's going. Everyone is calling for a lot more work, a lot more attention, a much better community policy, etc. However, the greater vote for the country seems to be not responding. The problem is the balance of power. Pieres stress self - determination rights for the neighborhood, where financial independence is of enormous importance. We're talking about a foreign object division, for example. worth taxation, property tax, corporate tax and that sort of thing. The lack of financial independence, as do rural society, is not now creating a power imbalance. The power balance of the current system will be adjusted only with the greater independence of the local community, which would replace the current ideals. Powers are divided into the current system. The balance of votes is achieved only by the greater authority of the unit level and by reducing the rate of elections or by increasing the number of members. There's nothing else.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u25	Mr. President. In the representative democracy we live in, it is important to be close to the people and to have voters witness to them at the council and in the countryside discuss the subjects that burn on voters wherever they live and work on their progress. At the same time, voters must feel that the election system is fair and that there is room for different views in the discussion. No system created by man is perfect. So we should have the courage to take up the discussion on how to improve them and to develop them. Thus progress will be made, and I believe that progress, which is intended to promote democracy and its infrastructure, is of particular importance. The situation in this country is that we live in both a small and a rural land. On one hand, much of the country's population lives in the capital area and in nearby rural areas, which are relatively small and densely populated in the Icelandic context. However, a smaller part of the country has spread around a very large and highly populated region. Thus, we have three outstanding examples in the large capital area, which have a greater proportion of members of the Parliament and three regional districts, all of which cover vast areas and contain diverse settlements and settlements. Undeniably, the situation is somewhat exaggerated when we consider key factors in this discussion, in the small size, the size of the country, and the size of our homes, as well as the high percentage of people who have chosen to live in the southwest corner. Is the emissary system now available to the people so that it is designed to establish a relationship between the number of voters and the number of members of the council but also to ensure that voices from different quarters of the country area are being heard in the discussion. In my opinion, e.g. Whatever methods we use, the election of a administrative Parliament reminds us of the need to balance national parts of the world. In Washington, they don't have senators, and that's probably because of something. The challenge between the political and community is to continue to develop the representative democracy and reason new and fresh ideas to improve it. At the same time, we need to take into account the unique conditions in which we live in this small country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u26	A respectable president. Here are excellent discussions and opportunities to correct the great injustice that some experience in the present election system. I just want to reiterate what I came in earlier, that's a pretty good equation between classes under the present system. Parts reflect within the relatively small limits of the vote they receive on the national scale, and if there is any suggestion that a person's will is to achieve a balance, it will probably not be done with any intelligence unless he makes the country one of the ideals. Then the situation will be that this may not have a major impact on the position of the Independence Party, who will be in the 4th or 5th place of the Independence Party. The candidate will be at rest in the campaign. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson would probably be put in one of the battle stations, and Brumes the Brynjar of Níelsson would be put into another, and so on. I'm not sure that the people will experience particularly greater democracy in being fighting for one of the national classes compared to what is now. I repeat what I came in earlier, we have to discuss this in a larger context. National access is very different from those living between the two White Rivers. Hv. paritaprevir Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir visited the visitors in committees and so on. There are a number of viewpoints that need to be addressed and addressed, other than whether we want to divide the thing somewhere in the middle of the street or on a third floor of a block somewhere in the Breiðholt. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u27	Mr. President. Thank you. the advocate of this discussion. I think it's worthy of us to discuss this matter here. I'm going to start by saying that I can really understand and that I'm not going to spend a serious, unreasonable difference between votes. Then we can discuss what is reasonable and normal in that regard. I think it must always be. I think it's part of our organization and democratic system. Do we want to secure a representative government spread over the country? Just like what? paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir said we've had a single election that this crystals in, the constitution vote, in which only three representatives of the country had a track in case I didn't forget. To that end, I would like to ask a question in this discussion: Has this conflicting vote developed some abnormal position? Is Northwestern accompaniment so often referred to in this discussion with a heavy heart in some particular envyful position? Do you think residents of Drangsnes, or West Hunsar County, experience that they have produced more of the shapes and impacts determined at the General Assembly than an area in the southwestern district? [[Up front.]] I don't think that's exactly the way it is. I'd much rather want, just like the highest. In this discussion, the prime minister mentioned in his earlier introduction, actually considering this by complex means. One way is to revise the ballot ships. I've had seven years of experience working in a huge regional standard, knowing the views in the area, and thinking that it is much more likely that we will break them up and get out of the revised ballot in combination with this vote. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u28	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank you very much for starting this important discussion. The debate on ballot rights is also a fundamental concept of democracy and civil rights. In democracies all authority comes from the people of the land, and here today the debate is changing that the people of the land, i.e. Those of us who have the right to vote, stand equal, that this state is equal, not incontrovertible. It is the fundamental right of people to be able to go to elections and that by their votes, they can influence the policy and government of the state. At the temple of democracy, we often speak of the same votes as it did not matter, as if any other law should apply, as if it were natural that in Iceland state mismanagement between the people of the land when it comes to terms of vote, inequities due to residence at the same time, and we would utterly refrain from allowing such conflicting values to be due to other factors, such as gender, class, or religion. The European Union of Security and Cooperation has carried out a global election management program, both in which a democratic court is known as a threat, but also in countries that are regarded as having strong democrats such as Iceland. That is exactly what she has done and has followed the indications that, unfortunately, the Icelandic government has not yet been able to cope. In fact, their advice is that these democracies are an incorrigibly incredulous violation of the fundamental rights of people that there are nearly twice the difference between votes based on where people live in the land. It is not normal for a recipient to reduce this fundamental right to democratic authority. This is what we have to change.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u29	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir This special discussion of the balance of votes and of thanking the highest inputs by the Hrafn Gunnarsson. The prime minister of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir during the discussion. It has been shown that this is a basis for our democratic organization, and it can be asked, of course, if the approach to balance the votes completely by leaving the organization we have and by making one outstanding example, if it were to be done fully, would necessarily guarantee what men call political equality. I think, a respectable president, either way, after listening to this discussion, that on this testimonial scale, the evidence is more than before, and sooner in either direction. The present arrangement is not without blemish. Wherever we would land on these scales in order to approach political equality or to avoid some degree of discrimination or power balance, the possibility of creating a much greater imbalance in territory if the country became up to one subjugation. So we're going to go out of our way today, somehow, in terms of votes. The advisor noted here that some kind of discrepancy was a sort of consent to its existence. In the bill to the Constitution of Council 145, for example, by the permission of President, the problem that the country would become a single phenomenon would be that its voters will be too far away from their voters, along with the decreasing influence of the rural population, on the number of members of the Parliaments on the basis of their number of councils. There might be an increase in metal. [[The president calls.]] Large political parties would have some form of self-election with the highest candidates. These are similar arguments we hear here today. [[The president calls.]] I think we need to adjust this scale to get as much equal in this field as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u30	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this important discussion. It has been about a number of fascinating things, and it may not be surprising that the views of members of Congress seem to be attached to the mail codes. It is consistent with whether sort of classes are benefited or lost in the current system. It may not be surprising, I understand that this was the way it has always been, and it is not possible to reach a wise man's discussion at the council on a ballot ship until it was possible to show the members of Congress how they themselves would be affected by the change in the ballot ship. Sadly, in the end it is very simple and clear. Is a man with half a vote or a whole one? That's what it's all about. Is it human right that some voters in this country have half a vote with other voters, that the voters in the Southwestern districts have a half voting rights as compared to the Norwegian-western voters? It is all complicated in this matter, and it is not surprising in itself that the current government groups are not interested in changing it, that this is not among their priority classes in reviewing the constitution, despite the fact that the voters say otherwise. It is the most important thing that we have to turn into the constitution, that is, the most important thing to do. Of course, it's the most important thing, it's simply human rights that all voters are sitting at the same table, that everyone enjoys the same vote, that I don't half my vote, for example, by moving out of the Southwestern District. It's not that easy. It is the simplest thing to change by making the country one outstanding example. Granted, we can find other solutions than we need to change the arrangement. We can change that, we should do it for the next election, and we can't hesitate to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u31	A respectable president. We're talking about equality in elections and we've been across a wide range of places here. Perhaps the most amazing thing is the country's resolution against its capital. I think it's through some of the four-part straws that have been controlled here and put this system on. I don't think I'm just a senator of Kragann's and nothing to the country. I have siblings, relatives, and friends all over the country, and I think it's time for us to face it and just say we're up to and fight for the whole country. That's the basis for this. We must also face it, as shown in the statistics, how many votes fall down dead. Let us watch Kragann versetus Southland, where it is nearly half. One person has 70,000 people behind him, 36,000. One gets ten senators, the other gets 13. The question is that there should be 20 against ten. This is what we call equality and democracy. It can't stand like this, it's not supposed to be like this, that you talk about having trouble discussing it and going to shoot about whether you're benefiting or losing your vote for democracy. I couldn't care less. It's not about that. It's just about being right about being equal. I say in my place, as we have already seen, would we accept that those in the Kragain city pay a lot of taxes, while those in the Northwestern District pay half taxes? No, we would never accept that. Therefore, we should not accept that there is half a vote in the Kragain versus anyone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u32	A respectable president. First, I want to thank all who participated in the discussion about many interesting viewpoints. Unfortunately, I will not last long enough time to discuss this matter in detail for the second time rather than usually when it comes to special discussions. I've complained about it before. I'd like to mention a few things. First of all, I have to say that I can't accept that twice the vote is normal or okay. I don't think that's really possible. 60% I think too much, too much. Of course, we want to have it evenly, and I have a very difficult view that implies something else. I think it's obvious, but you can argue about it because that may be a basic idea. Our attitude toward this matter is not allowed to determine whether our districts will be like this or gay, or our party will benefit or lose it. I don't think it's the right guidance. It's more basic. Similarly, we should not forget the underlying factors. It's not just about the norm, it's about why some people talk about the difference. This is because they are not equal to people all over the country, depending on where they live. We must have respect for it ourselves. I pointed, for example. should be less accessible to governments in the country, such as Reykjavík. That's right. Can we do something about this? Hv. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir went into this, too. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason. Hv. paritaprevir Björn son, the Leví of Gunnarsson, went into a state of financial independence. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson mentioned taxes in this context. Is there a preposterous idea of having a tax charge in some places for some objective reasons? They can become financial independence, e.g. to run credits to rural society, at least Partial. These are all ideas that can be discussed to meet the concerns that make people disagree. I'm not gonna have this any further, more dignified president, because I don't have time, but I thank you again for the discussion. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason said, "We should discuss this in a larger context, and I thank him for his inputs and for all of the others who spoke here. "
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u33	Mr. President. It has been interesting to listen to this discussion and, in fact, to listen to those who have had a cup of tea about how it all revolves around who is benefiting from it and who is losing it. I can't agree that there's something we're supposed to have on a table like this. We need to discuss the matter according to the basics. I'm a Ruslíkíkíkóttir. I'm a member of the Reykjavík District of the North and ever since I was a candidate for the council, I have considered my duties to be far richer than they were to be limited to the Great Way of Reykjavík. I've always thought of myself as a member of the whole country, and that's why I realize that people in this country have different circumstances, not just about access to governments. They vary in access, transport and communication. In this area, we as well as the capital area have won the prize beyond other areas of life despite conflicting votes. We have to face it when we talk about it, as I thought it would be. A verbal vendetta in both parts. On the other hand, I'm on the basis of the basic reasons why we should balance votes, but the way I mentioned these views is because the quality is not necessarily equal between capital areas and the scattered settlements, and no one among the scattered settlements, it is important that we also wonder about ourselves and whether the way it is to make the country one ideal or whether it is to go any one of the mixed ways that we have seen going another. When this was changed into the Faeroe Islands, for example, there was an increase in the value of personal terms. Whether to take a three-way trip. I find it interesting to hear members of Congress talk about priorities in the work that is currently being carried out in the various committees'field of reviews of constitutions. I just want to tell them what. Councilmen tell them that this review is on the table of the presidents. The plan to be processed was set up on that table. It is not a government program but is for constant discussion in this field, so if it does, it is for good. The senators have made comments on this and believe that this is the government's special document I remind them that the next meeting of the presidents of the clans is March 13. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u34	Mr. President. Some of us remember the years of the Cold War of the World Security of the State as referred to and then an institution for warning testing two or three times a year and gathering carpets and protective masks. The main progress in the public defence organization, which soon began to be centered on nature problems, was in a new coordination center in Reykjavík and in the 2008 public protection programme. Discussion of shipwrecks and management led to the management of police responsibility for operations in the province crystalved in the office of the State Marshal for Ministers. The experience of the performance and quality of the law can now be evaluated in over a decade. I believe that the coordination of rescues and relief services and police management in the province has developed far in the right direction, like cooperation with experts in many areas. Nevertheless, many projects, e.g. Response programmes, national risk assessment and especially national risk assessment. I also mention the growth of the party's response, training and education, offsets on a part of the overworked rescue teams from pay-employed jobs. In some parts of the country, public security has been missing. The P.R. project is, as a review, to follow government policy on public defence and security. This will include a national monitoring of public defences and a benefit-risk assessment in all rural areas. The overall national risk assessment should be rounded up and made available for foreign partners. Risk management measures must be carried out, but management schedules where risks are considered unacceptable. Action and action are consistent with disasters. A good cooperation must be made between the institutions of the state under the social hat of public defence. The World Health Organization calls a business owned by a state, a rural partner and in a private tenet to consult with the decision-making process. In most places it is considered important that the World Health Organization is independent and independent of other institutions to ensure professional management through risk assessment and counterimportation. Mr. President. Clearly, natural disasters are increasing because of climate change. Adjustments to their consequences, equally as well as to their acute response in the event of personality problems, toward the public defence system. Great weather, avalanches, landslides, storms crash, land tides, and so forth are likely to be both more powerful and more frequent than in recent decades. There is an increased risk of vegetation and the Covid-19 virus teaches us something in public defense. There is the danger of powerful volcanic eruptions, volcanic eruptions near our settlements, and major earthquakes, in every case compared to the return period that science offers. Only the example of Phreak Bay, Kate, Beer - sheba, the Smokenesian Peninsula, and the Tierst Bereaving Zone in the North East are there evidence of this. In the big box, there is an even greater research on nature, an increasing follow-up now in many respects, and a review and collection of funds, both for the funding of projects and for the financial resources needed to deal with major traumas. All over the world, there are vital tasks to be done. I firmly support a reexamination of the national public defences. The aim is to improve our safety by ensuring that we enjoy an even better coordination and a greater amount of resources to promote efficiency, knowledge, prevention and plans. It is important that the P.R., as in most parts of northern Europe, the public security centre will be under professional management and management with the Commission and the necessary personnel, from the police under the state police and national health care services, effective as a coordinated unit. Rescue workers need to be relieved of tasks other than mediums and major measures. They certainly contain volunteers with key people. It is also urgent to continue to develop and strengthen the practice and structure of the coordination centre and operating centres and the members of the rural community. Finally, to ensure co-ordination with risk assessment and response measures, the benefits and benefits of bringing to the Ministry of Public Safety and the National Security Department will need to be carefully reviewed, leaving many institutions and agencies at each time, as well as the relation to national security Council stronger than all. Mr. President. I know this idea is controversial, but I think it needs to be discussed. Mr. President. In particular, I welcome high-level government programmes that deal with the ability and strength of energy companies, telephone and Internet companies, and the institutions/opportions in the country, and many more - and of course the growth of the public defence system there is. Thank you very much. The prime minister for participating in these special discussions and referring to questions that have been placed in the Hall and about some specific points, such as reviews, procedures, organization, and other aspects. I look forward to witnessing discussions at the Assembly Hall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u35	Mr. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, for setting up this important matter. I think it's safe to say that this winter has reminded us of the importance of the public defense system, that it's solid and it's operating all over the country, and it reminds us of what I've said several times in the past days, that we're all public security. It is important that the nation participates in public defenses, is well - informed and aware of its role in times of crisis, as it has been during the winter, whether it has been eroding, weather persecution, avalanche, and now the global viral epidemic. Hv. A senator specifically referred to climate change. The national security board, now at its final stage, has special attention to climate change and how it can affect every aspect of society and adversely affect Icelandic security. It can not only lead to an increased rate of natural disasters and natural hazards, an increased risk of superfluous and higher resources but also to an important threat to infrastructure and economy, especially in the long term. Similarly, in this opinion that I will wish for the President of the Generals to be discussed at the U.S. Generalis scene, we need to be prepared to deal with serious social challenges that may arise because of a natural climate. A lesson from what has been going on during this winter is enough to be learned. I agree with that. A senator found it important to learn a lesson from the storm that went over the country during December and specifically reviews aspects of energy security, communication security, and other infrastructures that are about to ensure national security throughout the country. Hv. Similarly, a member of the body refers to the public defense arrangement. It's been more than ten years since the public defense law was accepted, and I think that as we look back, we know that the response system of the public defense has been many times over this time and actually for him. It is important to look to what has been done well, and indeed many things have been done well, but at the same time we need to look to these new challenges. I'm not just talking about the climate problem. I've mentioned electrical and telecommunications in the past, but technological changes are changing these challenges. The society we now live in is different from that one 20 years ago when it comes to it. It is very important that a regular and professional investigation of the activity of the public defence system, as well as the quality of the practice, planning and management of the whole public administration system, be made up of active participants. A senator, along with the government, mentioned the matter. An overall defense system must always be equipped to cope with any emergency situations. There is reason to review the public defense arrangements and how they overlap with other aspects of our response system. I have discussed this at the scene of the National Security Council as Prime Minister so that we especially need to cross the national security board. This recommendation has now met several times for information and status meetings of the weather, viral epidemic, and other circumstances, so this needs to be overemphasized when experience in the effectiveness of this body and its role in interacting with public protection. Hv. A senator mentioned the rescue forces, which are an enormously important part of our public defense system. They have the uniqueness that they are based on the work of volunteers, and they are also based on a great amount of self - resources. The rescue forces are a huge part of our public defense system, but it also counts that we look at how we can protect the initiative and the energy involved in applying volunteers for their lifesaving work but at the same time ensure that their basic funding can continue to be the trust and vital part of our public defense system. I'd like to finally report that. The Minister of Justice assigned a U.S. Marshal to make certain changes in the management of the P.S. Department in order to promote its activities. I believe it was a very positive step. Truth is, I think this winter has given a thorough impression that this system is one of the most important things in our community. We are a country that can expect to be affected by natural disasters and the addition of international threats such as the climate threat, the Korean virus, and what else the public defense system can be considered as a fundamental foundation. [[The president calls.]] It matters, and we have learned that in this winter, everyone needs to be ready forever.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u36	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for this very much needed discussion, as far as I'm concerned. I can do a lot of things about this, but I'm gonna try to focus on a few things. I agree with that word. The prime minister she gave at the beginning of her talk, that we are all public defenses. There is real truth in those words. Each one's mind is researched to take care of himself and take some responsibility. Then we have the operating system, and we have Federal Defense. More than ten years ago, this system was converted to the current system, i.e. as an advisor is suggesting now to become an independent institution. It was before it seemed very sad, and it had many horns on the side of the system that was then present. Now the discussion is about to go back. I'm ready to take that discussion, and I'm happy for it. I'm not against this case at all, but I think it's very important, first of all, that the Marshal here has a great entrance because public protection is the whole system's response to the disaster must be targeted, safe, and nonstop, even in a short period of time, and no one better equipped than the police to control such measures. I'm for the first doubt about putting this under a special agency, and secondly, I'm very skeptical about putting it under another Ministry, such as the seminars suggest, to transfer public security to the Ministry of Presidency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u37	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for taking this important community assignment on the program and thank you very much. Prime Minister for participating in the discussion. The concept of P.R. plays a solid role in the minds of most of us, presenting some connections, probably most of them serious, about safety, security, firmness, shelter, and perhaps, trust. The front pages of the old phone book are still freshly remembered where detailed instructions on how to react to a crisis could be found, even when the public guards regularly resorted to national records to warn and train citizens in case of a war situation. In 1962, the Federal Guard was established by law. In the beginning, the key role of ensuring the safety of the citizens was to protect them from the dangers of military action, perhaps primarily, in the case of the Kubudeian in those early years. With the new law of 1967, changes became the role of public defenses. Natural disasters, natural hazards, and other environmental factors are also looked to. Soon thereafter, in Húsafíkík, and then in the same year, 1972, emergency planning was considered. Health services had also become part of this system of equipment. A respectable president. This has proved to be a challenge to the public defence and to the emergency system of years of disasters, volcanic eruptions, and avalanches, and these days when the virus Covid is much. In recent years, rural communities have joined in the use of committees. Today, 21 are probably named active in nine districts of the country, but rural areas are much higher. The newest songs are from 2008, and much progress has been made in the public defense work. Teamwork has increased with a number of institutions and businesses, and they are strengthening themselves. The overall defense system is strengthening itself. Don't forget the rescue teams, and I'll ask you the highest. Minister if their roles are appreciated and defined sufficiently. The P.R. should be acting by law, independent and independent. [[The president calls.]] However, it has been inactive from the beginning. What's the reason, chief? Prime Minister? We face new challenges, as the saying points out. [[The president calls.]] We do well to examine this group of subjects, see if we are pursuing the right path, and ask whether we have carried something off.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u38	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen on the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u39	A respectable president. I would like to start by looking into this context only, and then back to 2003, when we had seven national administrative centers. The organization was, therefore, dependent on the nature of the command centres used at any given time. The Federal Center was activated, and most of them were not. That's where the dust fell off. In 2003, we found ourselves in a position to form a harmony center in the Woodshaft. It was a struggle, but eventually it succeeded. At that time, special attention was given to this worldwide organization. Here representatives of foreign nations came to observe this structure and the remarkable step that had been achieved by harmonizing all the operators to one place in a single control center, thus harmonizing the actions and integrating everyone's forces. Since then, much water has flowed to the sea, and in 2008's new law, there has been an even greater link to this activity, including Control of the Synchronization Centre. It was a progressive step, but it must be made as if a certain conflict continued, and this is what those who are well - known in this sector will recognize, the interracial conflict of power in this field. In general, though, this has been very successful, and the progressive step has been taken very much, and it has turned out to us the professional practices that we see in times of testing, as we experience very often in our community. Yet, there are many weaknesses still in this system, and they are particularly involved in preparing a nationwide approach and risk assessment. There we have a lot of work to do, and I'm going to get closer to that, a respectable president, in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u40	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion. Hv. The senator who offered this discussion may not consider my speech to be the main point, and so may be. However, there is something that needs to be included in the discussion, and of course I'll tell you that because we don't have much time here to discuss it. The World Guard is part of the security of our fellow citizens. National security is another term where authorities need to respond very quickly and quickly to possible serious events. In such a foreign situation, it is commonly used to justify the authority and use of the authorities in this respect. The latest example is how the Chinese government uses the Covid-19 situation, which is serious and nobody islittled, to justify the link between Chinese authorities and Chinese society. We are blessed that in Iceland we have not had to deal with such misuse of the authority, at least not as seriously as China, although it has just happened to the Icelandic government to misuse its power, listened to people whom they thought to be too far to the left and whatever. The reason for such misuse of public security and national security is that both are important to all. The importance of public defence or national security is not reduced by pointing out that these factors, as important as they are, are within the context of our living in a free and democratic society and will continue to exist, no matter what happens. When we think about things like Covid-19 that now come over you hear every idea that wasn't taken very seriously in a free society unless there were a very serious situation. When we find ourselves in a serious situation, we are certainly expected to do what we can to cope with it, but we must always remember that we are still living in a free and democratic society. This means that we cannot afford to allow ourselves in any way; we need to have certain limitations about what we allow ourselves to do for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u41	A respectable president. The work of rescue teams is of great value to our community and will never be properly valued for money. Special expertise is available within the country's rescue forces, which are useful in a number of lifesaving activities, but it is worth keeping in mind that behind each period of call there is at least For exercise, training, maintenance, and construction of tools and infrastructure, we should not forget the time needed to provide financial basis for the whole operation. Volunteers contribute a great deal of investment to personal equipment. One of the most powerful sponsors of the rescue forces is employers who let people work in order to perform urgent calls. Their understanding is important. The number of calls, especially in the country, has increased, resulting in expenses. From December 10, to today, volunteer rescue teams have reached 44,000 hours and are now nearly 520. This has been done by more than 2,000 people. That time, 44,000 hours, they've taken care of their families and jobs. The question has also been asked, Is it justified that so much of the country's public defense response is exposed to volunteer work? To a large extent, the rescue forces rely on volunteer work, and the primary cost is to be available with well - trained personnel that cannot fail. A respectable president. In the last few weeks, we have really been reminded of the importance of public protection. For years they have been responsible, on one hand, for police directors in the country and for the other, for the local community of public security. The feds are under the Federal Marshal, one of the respondents. On the one side, other respondents work on public defenses. Public defence's compatibility should be, not limited to emergency measures, but to the heart of a national public defence community and live independent lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u42	Mr. President. Like others, I thank you for this discussion. It's important and important. It is the basic duty of the government to keep the city safe. Since the safety of the cities can be very complex, it is important for many people to remember that this is the first obligation of the government. It is a song in our mind that we often show little concern, i.e. We may not look ahead and ponder over the challenges we face. We are a little eager to respond when things happen, as is true of the public security system and its organization, as is so many people in the community and government functions. Rather, it is a sign that we show little consideration for our present government. Forethought is essential to success, the prerequisite for planning and being equipped to cope with each trial. There I think we may improve, in this matter as well as in others. I then make some point in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u43	A respectable president. We're talking about the P.R. here, and thank you very much. paritaprevir Argt. Guðmundsson for the discussion and the highest. Prime Minister too. I got a funny look at me when I was sneered. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson said something about the P.R.R.s. I thought to myself that I hadn't heard them for a long time, and then I thought it would be as good because when it was in my time, the Cold War was raging, and the news was coming a long time, first on radio and then on television. There was no TV on Thursdays, and there was no news. But what may be the main point of this is the public security and the rescue forces. We have rescue teams, and we need to start thinking again how they should be financed. It is not normal for them to make money on fireworks sales with associated risks and pollution. We must make sure that rescue teams can function properly. We must realize that these are volunteers. It puts a lot of people under the lives and members of the family, and we must make sure that rescue teams are secure as well as that their work is fully respected. It shows what the world is like to know that we're going to have news in a moment, like, a matter of time. ... withtheswimmings that crossed Tennessee the day before yesterday. Twenty-five dead, what a disaster. It's happening, we're having these changes in the world, and that's why we're gonna have to make sure that the public defense system is good and that it works. It also needs to ensure that it is compatible in every way possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u44	Mr. President. We have taken much more events and have led them to some sort of disaster than the events that some 30 to 40 years ago were that they went on without any government access. While such developments are beneficial in many ways, there are certainly some cases of reactions that ran high. What is the source of this? Is such an increase taking place? Are they getting worse? I'm not going to judge this, but it's true that in the winter, a recent avalanche, a storm, and a new kind of influenza have directed the light to the response of the government on public defenses. That may be why we are here discussing the matter. I welcome the highest. The prime minister said and delighted to learn that an acting State Marshal is starting work to review the public defense system. There is no one better to do that than he is, and I trust him perfectly to do so. For setting up a new organisation, my first reaction is: No, not a new organisation. We have plenty of institutions. It is important to keep police in charge of public defences and not to be torn apart. An apocalyptic has been talking about the rescue forces, and there is a great deal of volunteer work, the rescue workers are obviously enjoying a great deal of well - being, a tremendous and appreciative work in behalf of the country and the nation, and they have repeatedly proved it. If they weren't, where would we be? Remuneration and non-employed jobs have been considered. How is the usefulness involved? [[The president calls.]] Is there to be a relatively small number of people on the government payroll?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u45	Mr. President. I'd like to use this opportunity to start by thanking all those who have stood in the front line for us in the public defenses of the winter. We all owe you very much, and we haven't been in a lot of trouble this winter. Thank you, too. The advisor for putting the matter on schedule. V.E.G. The importance of identifying the activity of public defenses was included by the prime minister. On the basis of the P.R.'s legislation on the Public Protection Committee, to operate independently, independent of governments and other investigators, prosecutions and courts. The P.R. shall be followed by a critical situation to investigate the management and response of the subject's response programmes. It was reported that the committee would be activated for the first time in December. to check the P.R. and their response to Adventiststorms called. Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Is it really true that the NTSB has only recently been accepted into an empty office building? Is it true that the Committee cannot even request data and information because it has no place to put the data on and has no computers or addresses to request information? How is it that a committee supposed to have been active in the last 12 years, since the law was agreed on, is not on budget and has not yet been under regulations? This is not some temporary committee, Mr. President, with a unique task and a letter of address. Rather, it is a legal committee appointed by the General. What's going to happen? Governments to do to ensure that the legal requirements laid out on the Public Protection Act on Public Safety? Mr. President. We have a unique opportunity after all the storms we've experienced in the country to evaluate the entire public defense system, cover what works, what doesn't work. What's still happening to us during the thousandth storms of winter? The public defense system is waiting eagerly for the NTSB to operate and make independent comments on the system's status and how we can improve it. We need to make sure that such answers are received. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u46	A respectable president. Let us look ahead. The P.R. project is to follow government policy on public defence and security. This is much more than part of any procedure. In the North, public defences are generally independent. They're subject to their own government, and they don't run a control center. This ensures that P.R. is independent of other institutions, e.g. Response workers who have a great interest in care and who are large participants when it comes to handling matters. Passing that way thus reduces the risk of conflict. There's something being turned back from the course that was followed here at the time when the decision was made to change this and put down this institution. I don't think it should be an institution in itself. I don't think this should be an institution. I don't want this to be an institution. I don't think it to lift public defense activity to the seat where it belongs and it should be an independent Office at the department's scene, that should move the operation into the Ministry with a special office that will take care of the details involved. It's normal for them to be located in the Ministry of Justice. There is knowledge and experience, and it must just be accessed to the main reactants and agreed with those who are the vertebral adapter in all the procedures we need to take. They all hear what they're talking about, so it's obvious that the knowledge of the big movie is the most, and it's going to be a lot of financial saving because of having it inside the door. The responsibility of the police would remain unchanged in the management of operations at home in the province and anywhere in the field. Humans are concerned about their volunteer work and how much of our social defense system is to have volunteers living forces. All you need to do is go to that study and talk to the people who work there. It only asks for one thing: Leave us alone, and let us carry out our duties and jobs that we have signed in a contract with the State. It is the only thing that is requested in that field and then supported larger measures and larger tasks when investing in them is too much. Despite the weaknesses in the system I entered earlier, much has been achieved, and I have great confidence in our public defense system, and we can do that as a nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u47	A respectable president. I have to say, I'd appreciate it better if the public defense was part of some kind of independent agency. I find it interesting to hear such doubts about a new institution as a good thing. I don't think the main thing is whether it's a new agency or an office here or there. I think it matters how the system works, how its components communicate with one another, but whether it's an institution or an office, I feel nothing about it. However, as mentioned in the discussion, the State Marshal's affairs are being handled by a minister for the sake of public defense. Without wanting to be suspicious of the State Marshal anything in particular, I would think that the P.R.s would involve many more things I might be concerned with a slight concern that a governor might be more likely to view as a culture shaped by which the police would inevitably fit in the police service, including the State Marshal. Then I'll just go through what I mentioned in my first talk. Without reducing the importance of the work already done and without reducing the importance of public defence or national security, I would like to say that this is the same tendency as anywhere else, just everywhere in human society, to view police, military solutions, or some kind of military approach to problems that need not be so when police or military authorities are assigned a role that doesn't need to be. Even if I know what to do. paritaprevir I'm sure Jón Gunnarsson doesn't agree with everything I'm saying here, I agree with him in that I feel better about having it in some kind of arrangement as a separate conflict of interests that could lead to the situation I am suffering from. [[The president calls.]] Again, I would like to reiterate that this is not the focus of the discussion. [[The president calls.]] I mention it because no one would do it except the one standing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u48	A respectable president. I think it's very important to keep it in place, as it has been said, that the word P.R. clearly indicates that it is ours as it is. Similarly, it is very important that the authority to take the lead and plan for the P.P. is strict and clear. Legally, the State will carry public security all over the country, while local communities will cooperate with the State. In times of trial, as has been so well documented during the winter, the savings of every community in the people who live there, the skills they possess, and the survival that they have access to, such as knowledge, equipment, electricity, and oil supply, even keys to houses. Therefore, the assessment, action plans, planning and training of operations and field management is very important in all communities and therefore I think it is very important to consider that risk assessment and general response plans are the other for individual parts of the country and each of the community, even individual areas of large rural communities, so that we are not attaching ourselves to rural areas as we may have stuck to the last few years. There are also more ways to re-evaluate your decision-making plans than is currently expected, e.g. minimum after each district election. Risk assessment and dependencies need to be live documents. Even if the paid employees abound in public defenses, we must never forget that in a public defense situation, citizens must always be confident that their civilian obligations in dangerous times, following instructions, or using local knowledge. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I must come to and stress that the development and follow-up of people and society after a crash is guaranteed, as has now been entrusted to the Red Cross.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u49	Mr. President. The subjects are certainly complex, and there are many factors and smells in this sort of discussion. I'd like to mention factors here that are probably a combination of public defenses and national security, related to social changes that have occurred in recent years. V.E.G. The prime minister mentioned a social disaster that we need to consider more seriously. I think there is one aspect of this, which is very interesting to wonder about, and it's the response of the public when some kind of disaster is going to happen. Society has changed so much that all sorts of theories, claims, and even false stories are tried in one way or another to undermine what is being done. This can be a very dangerous and difficult subject, for it can certainly be a narrow step between taking reasonable and reasonable criticism and comments, but this can have a significant impact on how society responds to potential dangers or activities. This is a very good example now that we are being attacked by the Covid virus. Not that self - appointed experts think that they know best and claim things that would be best said and will not help them deal with the problems they are trying to solve.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u50	A respectable president. We're still on the P.R. I think it's about time we were taught some things by the Covid-19 virus. We're supposed to learn them, we're supposed to map and learn from them. There's plenty of work to be taken. There are weaknesses in this system, and I ask, "How is public defense built up?" Do all the systems speak together, speak the same language? Are they connected? Is there any basis for communication? We have a headquarters but do we have any mobile P.R. control center that could be connected to the headquarters? We need to think about everything like this. It also shows what we've done, as when we were in a hot stream, when we were immediately added a measure to watch and get information. This is what we have to do. We have volcanoes, we live on a volcano island. Then there's what really interests me, and I've been so worried about, the avalanches that have fallen on us. There we too are learning and learning quickly to prevent loss of life because of them. It was said that the rescue forces were penniless and that this is a work for volunteers. I say for my part that some people are at work, and those who are doing this as volunteers are not supposed to get paid. Then there are employers who give in time and may pay for the time they call in, but that is not fair. I think the most reasonable thing in this example is that there will be no losses in voluntary work. [[The president calls.]] Besides, we need to make sure that these rescue teams get the money they need.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u51	Mr. President. This has been an interesting discussion. We're all in the same boat, say many, or that's at least That's what I'm talking about. You're absolutely right. What we're here to do is maximise the ability of public defenses to serve their role. It's been going well, but how long does it do it without a significant intervention and change? We wonder about this independent institution. I think she's already in the coordination center. I'd like to change the size and extra pressure of the public defense system over their heads on the need for it to be a work independent of an institution that can do their inner and external things with force. The police government will remain on the scene, and the Marshal is in charge there, but I am stressing that this independent institution is really going to be discussed seriously. More than 4,000 rescue teams are available in Iceland for volunteer work. My idea is to reduce these people by getting part of their financing, business, management, and even part of the calls on people who are certainly on pay. We even have these people, we have them in the National Guard, the police, etc. so you can think of such a regiment. The Ministry of Presidency I believe should be in charge of this as a result of co-ordination. I'm stressing that what I've said here is something in the spirit of people who work in public defence. I strongly suggest that with the current revision, there will be a very close consultation with those who are always in the field. [[The president calls.]] Thank you to the highest. Prime Minister and your team here in the audience for the participation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u52	Mr. President. In my mind, the public defenses are not necessarily about where they are located in the management system but about the government's priorities and their place in the management system. The World Health Organization is not about any particular action on special matters. Rather, it is a social project. They're about policy measures to ensure the P.R. It can be wide, as I mentioned earlier in terms of electrical and telecommunication. They focus on the activities in the field when something is up, and they are also about the afterlife, to form communities that have suffered from such traumas, supporting them, and providing the needed help and support. It is a major project, and the purpose of all the Ministry is to arrive regardless of where institutions are located. As I said in my first speech, it is important that we examine the role of the National Security Council in the context of the P.R. and ensures this approach. I want to make a report on a Senate hearing from the fact that I attended a meeting at the co-ordination center this week because of the crown virus and saw exactly how all its members, whether it is the police, health care professionals, the Red Cross, and so on, information agents advise and others, meet together and work as a team in the great task of coping with this disaster. That is the spirit we need to be guided by all the work we want to do in public defense. I think it's very important that work on a new policy in public defence and security will be completed first and prioritised. This was discussed with the Public Defense Commission, which was taken up by the General Assembly under the National Security Act of 2008, but it was never started and was not funded. She has now gone to work, she has been able to find a place to live. I know that there is not yet all the equipment, but this shows that the current government wants to set these priorities, set out a clear policy, look to new challenges, set priorities for this class that matters to us all because it is a huge community project. [[The president calls.]] Thank you for the discussion. Good day. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u53	A respectable president. On this occasion, I remind myself of the serious comments that were presented in a discussion about the matter yesterday. I also remind you that the representatives of the greater part of the General and Education Committee there said that the matter would be called in to the committee of conversation and that it would take up a real material discussion and be called back to our guests. I think that's absolutely necessary in the light of comments in the case. We in the Central Party are glad that there will be a material discussion between discussions on committees, but we will sit next to the arrangement at 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u54	Mr. President. I just wanted to make it clear, like cot. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason made the matter to be mentioned between the 2nd and 3rd. It will discuss matters of opinion that have developed and including the following articles. was brought to the attention of this conversation yesterday. I don't think it's a good idea to understand a word. paritaprevir Bergþór the Ólason, he believes that there has been no material discussion on the subject of the committee. I prefer not to understand it in this way, for it would be a very wrong description of the work of the Committee, which, of course, has been considered and various factors in this regard. However, as members of the committee, we have every reason to review some of the factors mentioned in this article yesterday and, of course, to do so and call guests as necessary. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, I think those who know the Committee's work know that, of course, an intense material discussion has already taken place, which will then result in the final payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u55	Mr. President. I think it's important to say here that a very thorough and effective discussion has been made with the General Information and Education Committee. I believe this bill is a great improvement and will benefit both the state and the landowners by explaining certain procedures. It's no problem that we take the matter into account, as presented here, but I still think it's important to say, at the vote, that I believe that the matter is basically good and that the committee has done a good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u56	A respectable president. We'll vote for the various b-aves that are eight if I remember correctly--but don't worry, we'll just vote on them once. It's possible, it's gonna show. We vote against the B team that shows up in many of the bill because it includes the legal bans of various institutions on the Internet. We are basically against it, as is shown in a finer talk I recently gave about this matter, but we do not vote on the subject of the bill otherwise.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u57	A respectable president. Government contracts show that there will be effort in simple regulations for the sake of employment and the public. The bill on which we vote here is a factor in this path, and this is a series of listed licenses and registrations that are not considered necessary. This reduces the number of license parties and reduce the unnecessary demand for employment. In addition, the bill suggests that laws that are considered out - of - date and that they no longer have independent values will be canceled. This is what I am celebrating and encouraging the government to bring even more cases of this nature into the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u58	A respectable president. I'm happy for it in general, and especially for the 22nd floor. where ten of the songs that will be eliminated are songs that are in Pirata's bill for evaporation of empty songs. This reduces the bill by 10. Previously, a financial minister had taken several songs from that list, and I encourage the rest of the advisers to complete the list so that they might not have to interfere with it at once there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u59	A respectable president. At the Central Party, we like things that are about III. and IV. section of this bill, which speaks of a change in the law of partners and, on the other hand, the loss of various laws, as discussed in the discussion. The targeted goals are set out in I. and II. the chapter of the bill is excellent, and we have every day to look for ways to simplify the regular work that our professional life needs to do at a time. Looking at the comments of the Driver's Association and the Organization, a trade union, however, it seems to me that the race may be full in this matter and that it would have been wise to take a little more time to think about it. However, the objective is good, and it can be achieved and reached, but we feel that it could have been considered better, taking into account the comments made by the car and the industrial environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u60	Mr. President. This bill includes a simple rule of action and is a major step toward progress in this regard. This is a feature of the government's work in this field that is already taking place in various matters in the council and looking that way. It is interesting to note that supporting the situation is a group that recently tried to oppose the blunder and say that he wants to simplify the business and business environment. What it's all about is, not how you talk, but what you do, and we see it in your later vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u61	A respectable president. In this vote, there is also the removal of a license unit for sales of used cars. FIB strongly objected, and I think it's a big comeback because there's a lot of interests in it. It has been noted that those who have problems with the sales of used cars can sue, but they have to live up to all that cost themselves. It's gone a long way back, and I feel sad to come in like this because, in itself, it's a good thing, i.e. ... to Cleanupthisprogram. We should do this so that we are not harming consumers in one way or another.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u62	Mr. President. The independent party has set priorities for how you clean up your surveillance system. You jump into dangerous classes like a car salesman and a cab driver, but you leave the big calls alone. You leave it alone for those who hire the grocery market, and you don't interfere with competitive songs. This issue is pretentious, flucious, and failure to listen to those who have become familiar in this article, as well as to others who have presented a very clear view of this, such as the industrialists who have warned about it. You must listen to them. Our task here is to listen to the people of the country, but not to go against them. But I've told you before that I'll take part in correcting this case when a correction bill appears within a few years because this is a possibility of trouble. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u63	A respectable president. That's exactly what matters, like what happened. paritaprevir An Birgir Ármannsson came in earlier, what men do, not necessarily what they say. What I pointed out earlier may be that the underlying factor is more rapid and the need to show that something is being done to simplify it instead of going for a job to be of great benefit. I came in just before that we supported the goals underlying on the bill, but it seems here that people are rushing so quickly that they are not reasonable. That's what I'm criticizing here, and we in the Central Party have not wavered from the fact that we're supposed to seek a simple rule and work on reducing the booth. [[For example, where do we find them?]] In this case, it is becoming more important to do a more efficient job response and to be able to check the box instead of attract a receiver to the table and look for ways that they would consider reasonable to simplify their own regular working environment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u64	A respectable president. In view of the words that have occurred during the discussion, I would like to note that in a committee study, industrial law is specifically used. Tips were made in which the Committee specifically agrees, and a minister has now appointed a team of workers to review industrial law to reevaluate it with the aim of improving its implementation. I must also say, a respectable president, that I find it a little awkward to keep coming up and talking about the simpleness of order and away with the show, but when such cases appear in the conference hall and are discussed, it seems odd. Thus, members of Congress feel a sense of despondency. I'll think of three matters, first of all, this case here, which attracts a simple rule of action in which we look at the same order as in the North countries; a taxi drive that can't be made free at all. And what was it like together for a year's pay and taxes? There was no place like it. paritaprevir It's also the Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson. [[Up front.]] I find this to be awkward when discussing simple regulations. Here, we are actually doing it, the simple rule book, and we see in the vote that supports it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u65	Mr. President. When serious matters come to a council hall, matters of great importance, but only the worse, the middle-class members are not fighting the booth. We don't agree with fakes like this. We don't agree with monstrosity. [[Up front.]] If the Independence Party and the Secretary of finance that crows here, it's a real thing - that vera Baldur og Hanni. [[Up front.]] It was Konni. If the Independence Party presents itself with a solemn suggestion to fight the booth, the middle-class members do not support it, but we do not agree. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u66	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct the change in customs law. This bill suggests four changes to the law. First, it is suggested that the maximum weight of food provided by tourists and passengers may be brought to the country or may be purchased at a tax - free market in the regulations tolls to increase from three pounds [3 kg] to ten. Second, the bill suggests that tax reformers take into account a week's walk instead of a day's walk. A weekly recording will speed up the delivery toll and prevent the delay in payment when shipments are ready for payment before the day's payday. This will also make it easier for weekly delivery companies to plan export fees for their customers. Third, the bill aims that tolls become essentially digital; however, individuals and non-employers are authorized to provide up to 12 written transport reports each year. Fourth and final, it is suggested that tax laws be added to the provision for selling alcohol into a tax-free store of a member in the majority of the country, rural society, and/or businesses of which should be balanced with the choice of products and the decision to sell alcohol. This proposal responds to a letter of admonition from the EFTA Commission, ESA, where the Agency concluded that using the Free Sea crew, eHf. a little sale of alcohol without transparent agreements between goods and markets would violate the EU agreement's regulations for state mono-selling. The legal adjustments presented here will not have a significant effect on the survival of a government fund combined, but the bill will remain by law. In particular, the bill aims to improve the effectiveness of customs. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. at the end of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u67	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in competitive law. The bill includes a general review of specific aspects of the law and changes resulting from a recent Norwegian agreement to the cooperation of competitive national surveillance. The economic situation in Iceland has been a major factor in the recent discussion, with a number of indicators of air quality. In recent years, prices have been lower than any number of years, and there has been a rare long - standing stability, most notably due to the rise in transport services, now the largest export work in the country. These changes have made it possible that under the export side of the economy, a wide range of support are now more supported than once again leading to increased stability and continued demand for the economy. However, we have seen that changes may occur or are in store in various areas of employment and are now being added in the last place to uncertainty as a result of unrecognised infectious virus. It is vital, therefore, that business life be flexible and quick, able to cope with unexpected situations with quick warnings and to reduce the impact on the job. The changes suggested for competitive legislation by this bill work, including to that end. In parallel to the stability of the past few years, we have also seen substantial financial gains with high pay rates that have not led to a comparable increase in prices, as they often did in the past. This suggests that many Icelandic companies live in competitive ventures that make them unable in an easy way to raise their profits but that they need to look for other ways, such as in economy, fusion, and increased innovations in business. In this way various standards used in business life show that over the past few years, competitive management has led to a small increase in corporate resources only by increasing the prices of the market manager's market position in this country. Experience has shown that competition encourages companies to look for new ways to produce and offer products and market services. This maintenance will lead to a large contribution to economic gains and to large increases in innovations and consumers, thus benefiting businesses as a whole, which would not occur in the absence of competitive management. Thus, it is important to work for Icelandic employment that market competition is active and a company has to be involved with its rivals, with one of the main benefits of the market economy in the motivations of an active competitive environment. Active competition has a positive effect on the prices, quality, innovation and competitiveness of companies and the general public, as shown in the MMR survey conducted for the Contestant last year. The study also found that 97% of respondents feel that active competition has a positive effect on them as consumers, which is significantly higher than average in the EU. In the above, the competitiveness laws are of utmost importance, their aim is to work on the economic efficiency of society's production projects by promoting active business competition. The bill is suggested to deal with the laws of law in Article 1. improving the goal of promoting a healthy competitive environment for the benefit of consumers. It also obligates the important role of the Contestant Board to promote a more upbuilding and objective debate on competitive matters, resulting in a healthy competitive environment for the benefit of both companies and consumers. The changes in competitive laws proposed in the bill are the results of last effort in which the law's conduct in recent years was considered to be the basis for simplifying their activities while also making sure that the protection of the law and monitoring would be effective. From this work, it has led to the fact that there are a few adjustments in the law that I will now discuss. First of all, it is suggested to act on behalf of annulled by the law's prohibitions. This means that there is a 15th floor. The law will be changed so that enterprises will themselves be assessed as to whether the requirements for legitimate corporate cooperation are met. In accordance with local law, an enterprise is now going to need to consult the Contestant for a formal decision where the cooperation is authorized or not authorized. It is clear that this arrangement can inhibit flexibility and efficiency, although it also carries a great deal of rights for an enterprise. In general, an arrangement in Europe allows companies to assess the conditions themselves and the natural conditions as well as the countries to do so. I think it's right here to correct that in this change there is no change in the conditions that need to be met. Rather, the change is merely a change of shape. Second, a change in the law of fusion is suggested, which is also intended to simplify their implementation and allow more fusion partners to deliver shorter fusion announcements. Experience with shorter fusion announcements has been good, but there has been permission to make shorter announcements in 2008. The bill suggests that shorter fusion notifications will be cleared and the content of the reports will be simplified. It is also suggested that members of the Contestance Management Board be allowed to provide Community permission to provide shorter notifications, although not all conditions are met and the monitoring will also be permitted to give members permission to report this information. In order for such provisions to be possible, communication between the Contestance Board and fusion partners must have been made to the result of a fusion announcement. Thus, one objective of the bill is to establish such relationships to a greater extent than ever, but it is noted in many parts of the world that fusion partners are in organized contact with competitive authorities before a fusion announcement is sent and legal requirements begin to pass. Such communication promotes careful treatment of mergers and better research and benefits for all involved in fusion. The bill also suggested that the range of reported fusions be increased. There is a limit to when the law is saying that the Contestance Commission is informed of fusion and aims it at the functioning of mergers. In view of the past few years' experience, changes in Icelandic economy, and changing prices, the limit of choice is suggested to increase by 50%. Third, a change in the lawsuit's decision of the Contestant Board is proposed, so that the decision of the Contestant Committee should be established before a court case is appealed. This transition involves the possibility of an enterprise to evaluate on a case by case basis whether it serves their interests to sue the appeal committee or to file a case in court. In accordance with local law, the Contestance Commission has the authority to appeal a case of invalidity to the decision made by an appeal committee of agreements and its partnerships and conditions as well as to the decision of the appeal committee should be established before judicial hearings have led to some cases where the trial of such cases has been unnecessaryly extended. As a result of the development of national rights, there have also been fundamental changes in the order of the courts in this country and a reasonable review of the course of decision-making by the Contestant Board. It is a general rule in the administrative court that a person has a choice as to whether he will sue for a higher authority or head directly in court, and specific reasons are needed to make an exception. This change will apply to the decisions of the Contestant Board and to most other governments in this regard. Other changes suggested in the bill include that the warrant for intervention and violation of the Contestance Commission will be dismissed, to make the changes in the condition of the head of the Contestant Board that he will be hired for five years at the same time, and at most he may be in office for ten years. This change does not affect the working conditions of the current manager. Then, because of a new Norwegian agreement in the Northern states of competition for competitive cooperation, changes are made. The contract is an important end, and the North countries are all part of the common internal market, where companies work cross-borderly and it is important that competitive authorities can cooperate with information exchanges in the research of more than one country. Then a change in the collection of fusion fees is proposed, and a strength improved the implementation of the Contestance Commission to do when it agrees with an enterprise to accept a specific commitment in relation to the investigation without acknowledging it. A respectable president. The bill that I recommend is in the spirit of the simple ones that have been involved in the Department of Employment and Development, focusing on simplifying and clarifying the work environment of an enterprise without going to the protection of the public interest that public surveillance is intended to ensure. Thus the bill is designed to promote the future of Icelandic employment, thus increasing the prosperity of the nation. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u68	Mr. President. The introduction of a report with the bill shows that in the Government's declaration for government support to the biographies of the European Union and the National Trade Association, signed in April 2018, competitive laws would be considered with the aim of simplifying their activities and improving effectiveness. Then, the report explains what is more important than emphasis. I get it so it's at least is suggesting that there is some sort of agreement between the labour market partners and the government taking the necessary changes to the highest level. A minister just described earlier and appeared on the bill. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if I'm correct in understanding that the bill is really part of the biographer agreements and their implementation, as if it were implied in the introduction of the report. I'd like to start by asking the highest. Minister of simple questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u69	Mr. President. I view it as safe to say that it is, yes, part of the government's actions when it came to signing those contracts. The points specifically mentioned were to examine whether the terms of the Exception should be changed from the rules of the law, which are made here to assess for the soleness of the terms of this environ ment, that the limits of the reporting fusion should be reviewed and considered for their rise, and that are done and increased, and were proposed to change the treatment of fusions that were fallen to simplify it by simplifying the shortest fusion notifications and that are done on the bill, with, of course, more factors. This is not to say that all the factors presented here were part of the government's actions in this conversation, but a review of the principle of competition, with particular consideration to the factors I listed here, are part of the actions specifically referred to by the government and contributed to the process of living agreements being made.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u70	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. Now the bill was on the consultation march in the fall, and there were quite a number of reviews and all very critical statements. One of the reviews of ASI, who signed up to bring further reviews to the committee when the matter would be handled at the council. But it says, by permission of the president: Iceland's Common Association strongly violates government plans for changing competitive laws that weaken the Association Watch and reduce the ability of competitive authorities to stop competitive violations and thereby protect public interests against companies on the market. With this brief review, ASI truly suggests that they are not pleased with this bill as their highest source. According to a minister, there is a part of the biographer agreements. As I told you before, Mr. President, this bill was in the consultation box, and a number of comments came in where the bill is criticized. It's only taken into account one criticism, simply because if that article remained in the bill, it would have been a violation of the EEA Convention. But no one else is taken into consideration. So I want to ask the highest. A minister does not really consider it to be beneficial to what is presented in his consultation and whether it does not work the way it should be, and the government does not really intend to take note of what is presented. Mr. President. I'd like to say that this bill, which I have a lot to look at, will be very attentive to. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u71	Mr. President. I read all the reviews about this bill, and there were a lot of them, and some pretty long. We carefully reviewed all of them and took one of them into consideration. Of course, some were technical. Many of them expressed satisfaction with the bill or just dissatisfaction, and it is good to get it out. Of course, I knew of a number of dissatisfactions before I left with this job and knew that when I set up the bill that it would remain dissatisfaction. One thing is to listen, and the other thing is to obey, and it would have been impossible to bring up the matter if I had to obey all the comments that were received into the discussion because they were too different. For the part involved in the biographer contracts and the factors, therefore, it is not to be concealed that the procedure did not occur by ASI, so its review may not be surprising. But I disagree with that review because I don't think we have the bill that weakens the Contestance Control. The presentation was strongly associated with the review of the surveillance form, which was made after the case entered a consultation problem. Instead, this route is gone, and I am glad that it is in the hands of the companies to choose whether it serves their interests to go before an appeal committee or not because I realize that the views differ from the companies. They may be strong to make up their own interests, and in this case, there are many things that I thought was a good landing. But, of course, the matter will be treated for Congress, and I assume that there will be a thorough inspection and that work will be interesting and enjoyable.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u72	President. Yes, it is interesting to see, in view of the hard comments given to this bill on government consultation, that there are virtually no changes between the consultations and the arrival of this bill. V.E.G. One thing is to listen, and another is to obey. You see, it's often forgotten in a discussion about the Contesting and competition, that it's not the interests of the largest enterprises that really matter, but the interests of consumers and smaller companies. But their voices are often heard considerably lower than in the voices of the largest companies, especially in a market such as ours, which is characterized by a few competition. This is understandable and normal in many parts of society in small markets, but this makes the need for intense, competitive surveillance ever richer. There are many benefits to this matter, but there are also significant things to consider, so that there are no strong words, and I cannot help but agree with the criticism of those who say that in many of the terms presented here are the weak members of the Contestance Board. That criticism comes from the Council of SEC itself, from the consumers, from the Federal Republic of America, from the former chairman of the Contestant Board, a very harsh and critical of the government's plans for these matters. That's why I'd be interested to hear more clearly from the highest level. Minister, because I know many of the priorities that are found in the bill of a conflict between parties, such as the Organization of Business and Business Council, and much of this is of concern. But where are the emphasis and voices of the consumer organization? What is the discussion with the Neighbour Association in reviewing these laws? What is the agreement with the Contestance Commission itself upon reviewing these laws? I'm thinking that with most other market monitors it would not be a review of the legislation of such a surveillance without a comprehensive consultation with the Rapporteurs themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u73	Mr. President. I think I'm watching the big movie with the bill. I'm not offering a bill on behalf of big stakeholders in this country. I'm offering a bill as the minister of competitive policy. I am also the minister of consumers, and I am the minister of innovation. I'm well aware that non-communicative companies and tools that have not yet arrived cannot be many, and that doesn't sound like them. I take it seriously to do what I can in order to use my judgment by looking at the big picture. It's not like I'm taking orders from a bigger source. This review involves increased efficiency. It includes normal increases in numbers that have remained unchanged for many years, and of course the surveillance process was consulted. But it is not so that the surveillance will not have the opinion of this bill as it appears. I don't make any remarks about it, no more than before. However, these changes are not only consistent with what is specifically indicated as an action in relation to biographies. Similarly, the bill is based on work that began long before biographies. I've had this in the Ministry, I don't know how many months, probably stuck to work for a year and a half, if not more. I'm standing at least. by the bill I propose here. I've been twisting all the points I'm suggesting. Then the case will be treated for Congress, and I assume there will be a change in the condition of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u74	President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. When you read the bill over, when you read the original bill that went over, even though I can agree with a lot of what's being done there, the problem is, I'm just going to say, it's a very simple review of the competitive legislation. She looks first and foremost at the criticism that has come from the largest companies on the market. This does not mean that they should not be listened to criticism, nor does it mean that this criticism cannot be professional, but it lacks the emotional opinions of consumers, the viewpoint of the Contestants itself, and there is nothing to it that the Contestance Board is beginning to weaken. The surveillance is under way. The show's being interrupted, both in 16. and beyond that, and I can't interpret it any other way than to agree with the comments of the Contestant Board itself and the Neighbours Association on the lack of control. I ask: If it wasn't natural in such important legislation - because we often do so when we're going to be careful - to set up a cross-cutting committee in which the Neythians, representatives of the Contestants, representatives of the Common Association and the Organization of Employment, Business Council, etc. Should have been a representative, since the matter could have been handled in a careful way. We are also involved in the European Commission's nobility directives for consumer rights, in which the rules for competitive monitoring are being sharpened in the European Union, including the European Union. Directive 2014, which has been implemented everywhere except in the EEA, which could have been easily included in this review but was not performed. Therefore, I repeat: This is all too one-sided review of the competitive legislation and is primarily taking into account the interests of the largest enterprises as the nature of a matter, according to the highest concern of competitiveness. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u75	Mr. President. For the factors not entered the EEA Convention, this is normal, i.e. Because of a difference of two solid solutions, that's why we're not doing it here. To do this in the right order is a natural course and a normal practice. Happily, a strong job life and the interests of industry and the interests of consumers play a role. It cannot be configured that if you are increasing your efficiency in the interests of employment, you will be able to cope with the changes that lie ahead of you and in the particular situation you are thereby in some way in which you are stepping in the interests of consumers. I myself believe that effective and potent competitive surveillance is the key to the market economy. Since you have an active market economy, you need to be actively evaluated for competitiveness. If we were strictly government and national use and government markets from the government, we wouldn't need a powerful competitive surveillance, so I'm not one of their opponents. It was long ago time for a review of the competitive act. That work has been going on for a very long time, and actually for my time too. It is different whether a vessel had a cross-cutting, cross-cutting group to cross it. It's a little late for the butt, here's the bill. It's on Congress treatment. I'm of the opinion, otherwise I wouldn't be presenting the bill, that this will improve the environment of the local industry. It is now that a powerful, healthy life of employment is essential to the creation of valuable things and the need for competition to bring an added benefit to consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u76	Mr. President. To make it clear, there are many benefits in this matter. It was time to revise the reference height in the ranks. It is perfectly normal to schedule the time of the order of the chairman of the Contestant Board, but in this context you can also agree with what the review stated. The former chairman of the Contestant Board in his consultation with Gylfi Magnússon is also able to sharpen the relevant requirements for the Contestant Commission. That very grammatical comment was not failed, from a confidential talk at the council. What I'm worried about in this, however, is that it's being kept under surveillance. There's a perfunctory theme in this. In recent years, this has been a very harsh criticism of the Contestance Commission. Much of that criticism is absolutely right. It's only natural that the Contestant watch more than that, for example. A guiding factor in its activities has been provided. You need to improve efficiency, you need to speed up the treatment. The review of the reference height should be reduced, resulting in relief by the Contestant. But, of course, you can also look to see if financial contributions to the Contestant have followed normal trends, e.g. increase in pay. When I look at these developments, it seems to me that there was, unfortunately, certain evidence to simply wing the Contestance Board in recent years, in fact, a period of time when financial contributions to observation have not taken much changes, in my own eyes. It is so important in the context of competitive and efficient competitive markets that the majority of Icelandic jobs are SMEs. They are the carriers of Icelandic employment. It's the companies who rely on the Contestants to ensure honest competition on the market. At a small market like this, the competitive environment is always a line dance of some kind between the size of an economy in a small market and an active competition on the other side. In human language, it means that whether we like it or not, most markets look for few markets in order to achieve some kind of size advantage. It brings back powerful and efficient competitive surveillance. That's why I need some comfort, for example. bad changes to Article three. the bill that suggests that, instead of the formal release of the Contestance Commission, between 10 and 12. Business negotiations and partnerships can evaluate it for themselves. I'm even pointing. in the review of the former chairman of the Contestant Commission, which points out that many companies will even be reluctant to have such cooperation without being able to look for formal access to the law for fear of some way in which they will be in late stages of violation of the law. That's something I think at least for the committee to look into their discussion very closely. I also point to 4. gr., where c-joints 1.mgr. Section 16. The law is dismissed. This is actually the authority of the Contestant Board to intervene in a market without a legal offense. Such procedures may vary. In recent years the competitiveness monitoring has taken out a market analysis, producing reports on the competitive environment of the individual markets, in a fuel market, has been written reports on the status of the pension fund in Icelandic employment and referred to as the source of the Contestance to be able to intervene if abnormal compression or development is thought to occur. If this device is taken from the Contestant Control, it will not be particularly effective for the market because surveillance is simply a lack of permission to intervene. You can even say that. pointing to the fuel market report. Experts believe that at least it has influenced the market to change its behaviour without any intervention from the surveillance process, simply look to the instructions and recommendations given by the Contestance Commission on the effectiveness of the market and that they have worked in accordance with them, and thus made any intervention on the part of the surveillance unneeded. I am well acquainted with the chorus that sings the highest song when the United States Association is engaged in a business discussion. These are the largest enterprises in terms of the case, at times inactions, but often for good reasons. It would likely be evidence of an extremely passive competitive surveillance if the largest people in the market never complained about it. It would probably be a fairly unnatural environment in a competitive market if the market manager never complained about the National Contestance Commission. The voice that is heard much less frequently is the voices of consumers. For the first time, we have an extremely weak environment of consumer organizations on the land, which are extremely supportive of the public and may be especially able to see how we can further promote consumer protection. But we also rarely hear from the small companies who are hit on the market at each market. These voices are not heard many times during the discussion. They rarely have much opportunity to seek their rights or financial resources to engage in major campaigns. Therefore, it is so important that here in this room the interests of these parties, the little companies, consumers, are fully maintained by a review of the competitive legislation. That's why I would have considered it much more convenient, as I mentioned in my answer to the highest degree. Minister, that, in the exception of a review of the competitive legislation, a cross-cutting committee was arranged for its review in which all views were drawn to the table, where the discussion would not be carried out under loud criticism in the media, but would be carefully discussed within such committees or groups. I miss that very much. And once again, I also miss very much that I didn't think more of the elaborate comments that were made in my consultations. Actually, it's becoming a little bit of a bitch. I have to admit, I'm not one of those people who are the special fans of the consultation puzzle in the first place. I believe she actually puts in charge of the objective of the council, usually cutting back the time that the General has to work things out. As we see here, an important point is to enter March, likely considering completing it for spring, which will limit much of the committee's time to discuss the matter carefully. There is no purpose to be reasoned if there is never to be heard of any comments presented there anyway. Then we may as well cut her out and give them access to the council sooner, allowing the council more time to work carefully. I think there's a lot of things here that need more attention, but there's also some benefits. I certainly hope that there is an agreement within the Economic and Business Committee for a good deal on this matter, for there are many things to be done carefully and this is not a matter that can stand being carried through the committee at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u77	Mr. President. We are now in the first week of March, so three months until the end of the council. I would have assumed in advance that it would be a good time for the committee to take the case for conquistador. I agree with that. A senator says that I wish the commission a good success in working together, both for the matter and for the possible changes. I'd like to then mention it here, to this bill's consultation, I'd like to say, with the better you've seen on the bill; at least, they're not often so well torn up, where it really comes out, and is attributed to what comments were received, the nature and the attitude taken, and why. I find the letter of counsel to be exemplary, especially in a language that is important in many areas of interest. I think it matters, and perhaps raise the riddle a little, that it returns, though all these views were received and taken into consideration and reasons why this end up. I'd like to compliment those who built the bill in the Department of Employment and Development for having the consultation in this way. I think this is what we're supposed to be headed for, i.e. that the score of the contract is more dense, more transparent, and actually reflects the point of view. But I also realize that not all the views that came, since it would have been impossible in the bill because of the nature of rumors.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u78	President. Thank you very much. Minister on the counter. Three months - Plenty Time for Comment? You can point out that I think it's about that. Three months after the case was handled by the government, if I recall correctly, and it is more or less unchanged before the Council. So it took three months for the Ministry to get the bill alone to the council. It is true that when you look at the results of your consultations, it is a comprehensive consultation. As in the case of Congress, everyone has the opportunity to come to their viewpoints. But again, I reiterate: What is the purpose of such consultations if they do not listen to such comments, many of which are very grammatical and well - founded? I ran across it freely that I thought that this case had made the change one, and the highest. A minister will correct me if I am wrong, that one article would have been replaced, if I recall correctly, one article released, which was considered to be a violation of the EEA Convention, but in other respects the bill stands more and less unchanged, correct, from what appears in the consultation principle. I couldn't see, at least not in a hurry, in the reading of the bill as it was in the consultation and bill as it happens to the council, that there is another difference to be found in these two editions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u79	Mr. President. I say for my part that I would have been much less willing to bring up a bill that wouldn't have gone off and got all those reviews. I read them all and took my stand on them. I wanted them to look up, and I wanted to know if there was anything I hadn't thought about or us at the Ministry. Of course, the bill is a political document, as are other prime products presented here, and I am very aware that many people have a different view of the changes presented. It's part of the case and part of the nature of the case, but it's a letter of advice that works by nature. I think it's important, and in many other initials, and in employment, it is generally taken into account the comments made there. Prior to the council, basic changes are often made, after which they receive their regular treatment and make further adjustments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u80	Mr. President. I reiterate the criticisms I have presented to my consultations. Not that I don't object to that sort of conversation, on the contrary. I believe this role in the treatment of Congress is the most important factor, i.e. opportunities for stakeholders to address comments and comments and to represent the Synod committees to discuss matters carefully so that the committees can work well through such reviews. My main concern has been that government consultations have become some form of an additional narrative. Then, on the basis of the reviewer, we regularly hear the committees being critical that little or no consideration is given to the stories presented in the consultation puzzle. However, that process of consultation will take a long time when the council would have discussed the matter. It's the case here, as in so many cases, that this case could probably have happened before the council to be treated in the fall in the form it is at the beginning of March - three months when the standard notice is three weeks. We know how the trial ends, when the council is drowning in the last few weeks, and we hardly know what day is due to the rapid treatment that is needed late - and they're not getting it now, won't it put here, according to Congress, for one hundred administrations until the end of the council and due them up for the coming. It is more than for the council to have at the same time work this important matter carefully when it is time to push the rest through. It's my main concern, and I'm sorry about this process.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u81	V.E.G. President. I will not give a long talk about the bill in this discussion, but I intend to express my joy in this discussion. This is a simple process, contributing to the practical use of the manufacturing factors and counteracting excessive barriers and unnecessary limits of employment freedom. That's what it's all about. Of course, they're in line with the competitive legislation of other countries we're most competitive with, and I think this will improve the competitiveness of Icelandic employment. It is very special to listen to critics of this bill, including Yeah. 7. Smoke. n., Þorsteinn Víglundsson, where it's claimed to be a constant weakness in consumer interests. This is how, and maybe not everyone realizes that consumer interests and professional interests often work together. It is as if many here believe that reducing these obstacles and simplifying activities is necessarily at the expense of consumers. That's a big misunderstanding. It is also very interesting to listen to comments from the critics of the bill, who simply insist that the League is weakened, and everything is at the expense of consumers without saying anything about what it is. I didn't get any examples of how it should be, they just say so. Also remarkable is the fact that the same people who criticize this section of the bill, this aspect of the bill, have absolutely no concern for competitive affairs when the government or pension funds compete with other people in the business. Then, somehow, all competitive rules, all competitive principles, and principles, are of no importance. I'm going to finish this short talk by criticizing the bill. I know it's the highest. A businessman knows how disgruntled I am in the bill, and it is the strange possibility that a lower government, competitive watch, can demand judgment to invalidate the decision of a higher government authority. Maybe it's not an absolute thing, but it's just as ridiculous for that, and I don't understand that someone over their heads can think of it. I could understand that men would decide that the decision of the Contestant Board was a final decision, a last stop in the administration, and they would have to take it to court. But having a higher government is not a good option that a lower government does not need to follow and may try to invalidate judgment. I'm aware that taking off this statement from the Contestant Board has been very opposed, and somehow it was being weakened in that way. It's off and on. It is calculated that the administrative decision of this kind will be reviewed by a review of the higher standard of administration, and this will be the final treatment in the administration board. I will then suggest that it will be changed, either to withdraw with the appeal committee of the DC or that the Contesting Commission must accept the results of the higher government. I couldn't finish my talk without finding something wrong, which is how the human race is made.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u82	A respectable president. I'm going to start with the gold sentence of all the senators saying, "I'm not going to extend this discussion any further, but I'm going to speak up. I'm primarily going to celebrate the contributions of this bill and thank you to the highest degree. Minister for her speech earlier. In view of the speech given, why? paritaprevir Empress the Brynjar of Níelsson, too, I eagerly look forward to a discussion on this subject. The Economic and Business Committee, where we shall, of course, review it thoroughly. Of course, I agree with that word. Ministers that vigorous and competitive surveillance is extremely important to the entire business. I think the bill we have in our hands will lead to it. We will review the comments made. But I'm beginning to think that we're discussing a bill for a change in competitive law - well, we're going to get there. A member of the Central Party in the hall. You see, I was going to say that before... [[Take it up in: Sweet talk.]] You see, there's talk. A senator, for before that, we were discussing a bill as a song on a simple rule, and then we moved with a sense of urgency. A member of the Central Party spoke and said it was just showy. When would we be discussing serious matters like the competitive law? They're here, so I'm glad to see what it is. The members of the Central Party, who are expected to come here and give a big speech about this already beautiful bill. It was only a matter of consultation earlier. Clearly, there are differing opinions on its advantages. I'm celebrating my consultation. I think it's an important tool for governments to increase transparency and demonstrate what is available there. And although it only changes the rhythm of us senators, I think it's a big improvement. In fact, it is fine to be able to consult the bill's article on the comments presented in the dictionary. But I reiterate it, as mentioned in the past, I think both Ministers and senators, that, of course, the puzzle is no substitute for the church treatment. I assume that we're going to receive comments from all those who submitted references to the consultation mystery and no doubt more members, and we'll even have them over for a visit, and we'll take care of this matter. I think the system that has been put on with the puzzle is a great improvement, and I say the same thing I said before, a respectable president, that I celebrate such a prime launch from the highest station. Governments and may be as many of them as possible to simplify and explain the principle but at the same time to strengthen, of course, that we have a powerful, competitive attitude.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u83	Mr. President. I recommend here for a bill to legalize health care legislation, No. 40/2007. Transporters besides me are nuts. Councilmen Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Bergþór Jónsson, Birgir Þórarinsson, Gunnar Sæmundsson Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, Sig Sigmundsson, and Ásmundur Friðriksson. Mr. President. The land hospital is the largest and largest place in the world. For some time, criticism has been presented because of the lack of the presence of professionals in the hospital administration. Both medical authorities and the professors of the National Hospital have spoken of a special government arranged over the hospital, where the medical staff would have strong access to the hospital's administrative system. According to Health Care Act, No. 40/2007, led by directors appointed by a health - care administrator, including the management of Land Hospital. Is the director responsible for the Agency's work in accordance with law, administration recommendations and Minister's letter of business. Then the director is responsible for the Agency's services, for the management and management of the Agency in accordance with budgets and for effective use of funds. The head of the Agency's staff, including the Commission. It has been noted that so many and powerful roles of directors and executives are known in other countries in the north. For example, the largest Swedish hospitals responsible for the local community are governments. Governments are appointed to the principal Norwegian hospitals that have been considered to be the modeling of the Icelandic medical system. These include CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 Consider the Karólinska University Hospital in Stockholm and Sahlrenska University Hospital in Götborg. The hospital authorities are appointed by local governments and operate for their responsibility. They're directors, and they're in charge of health decisions made by rural governments. The director and executive board manage the daily management of hospitals. Mr. President. If we look back a little, we had older health care laws, No. 97/1990, which is known to be under the management of the Ministry of Health and Security, all of which were entrusted to seven members of the board of directors. The board was appointed by the Council of Staff of the Kingdom Hospital and a united General, as well as by one, chairman, was appointed by a minister without a form of appointment. The Board of Directors was appointed to ensure that land hospitals were in accordance with health care regulations and that the hospital provided the required health care. Among other projects, the Committee was assigned to include a management plan for the hospital in consultation with the head of the hospital, to implement a development and management plan for the hospital in consultation with his manager, to monitor management within the framework of budgets at any given time, to alert a minister if activities and services were not in accordance with health care regulations and to inform a minister if financial management was not in accordance with budgets. In current health care laws, No. 40/2007, previously referred to, do not find laws on a government that has a role similar to that of the Land Hospital Board. Two. 20. However, a current law is recommended to advise the National Hospital Committee for Counseling. According to the bill's report, the advisory committee is expected to take on the role of a management committee, but it clearly states that the committee has no management role. That change was criticized at one time, including as it would minimise the availability of healthcare professionals to manage the health system. This consulting committee was long not organized, and as a result, it has not been very effective. What we have in this bill is neither new nor original. The idea has existed for a long time that it would be necessary for more than the largest business in the country to be a government, just as it happens and to become a commercial enterprise. Business governments have a very important role. At the same time, they provide support and support to the Commission and have an independent role in policy development. This bill suggests that a minister will appoint seven men in the administration of the Land Hospital for four years and one shall be appointed director of the government and another vice president. As many men as yours are ordered. Then, with the permission of the president, it says: The management authorities must be health experts and/or management experts, financial and policy professionals, or they should have expertise in the activities and management of hospitals. So here are high standards for those who would be taken into the administration of the Land Hospital. These are people who have excelled in health science or have excelled in business, policy, and other such factors. The bill states that the chairman offers a board of directors for a board meeting. He directs meetings and serves as the director of a meeting with freedom of speech and proposal. The secretary gives the board a letter and decides a fee to the management board which should be paid by the Agency's funds. The management board shall confirm the Agency's organization, its annual work programme and budget and establish a long-term policy. The management board shall oversee the activities of the Agency and that its management is within the framework of the budget at any given time. The director of the administrations should regularly inform the minister of its activities and alert them if activities and services are not in accordance with the laws of the law and if operating is not in accordance with financial requirements. Mr. President. It should be stated here that governments play a basic role in business management, and this has led many to see that the greater body of the country is not a special government and, as it says, is organized by a minister. Therefore, the director of the hospital and executive director is not enjoying the support and support that companies generally provide. Mr. President. I would like to quote an article that appeared on June 26, 2017, where there are conflicting ideas like those suggested here. The authors of this article are six medical professors, Björn Rúnar Lúðvíksson, Helga Ágústa Sigurjónsdóttir, Guðmundur Þorgeirsson, Pálmi V. Sigurður, Guðmundsson, and Steinn Jónsson. They are all professors at the National Hospital and Medical Department of the University of Iceland, and they provide an article on the affairs of the Land Hospital in the Morning newspaper, which I would like to quote, by permission of the president. It says: The hospital's talk is out of place, but it also directs its influence on us and helps all key aspects of the work to enjoy themselves; service, education, and science. Go on, with President's permission: After the union of the hospitals in Reykjavík in 2000, this system was modified by all its administrative responsibilities to the director and to the manager. Since then, the medical professions at the hospital in effect had no direct access to the hospital administration, but all decisions and responsibilities were taken to the director, appointed by a health minister. The director is appointed to appoint all his next executives for the Commission, which has both a policy-makers, surveillance, performance and management role. Unsigned to the fact that any president or executive is entrusted with so many and powerful roles in university hospitals in our neighboring countries, we do not know. In this article, this six medical professors, with permission of a president, continue: ▪ Over the past few years, there has been growing dissatisfaction between employees and professions and executives. It can be said that some administrative differences began soon after the unity, increasing in later political changes and reaching a climax during the hardships of severe cuts. [...] In extensive environment scans, there has been widespread dissatisfaction with the national administration system of the Land Hospital among all his professions. The clergy experience themselves far from the executives, and even the heads of scholars have little chance of dating. Therefore, we feel that the present administrative system of Hospital Hospitals has not been successful and that urgent improvements are needed. Rather than being attached to characters, the problem lies in the structure of the system around the uncircumcised authority of the director. With the permission of the president, I will complete a reference to this article on the proposal of the editors, which says: ▪ We suggest that the highest authority in a land hospital will be in the hands of a multiorganized government with the strong presence of the professionals. That's exactly what this bill is about. An article in the professors continues to say that the board has the following three roles: to hire directors, to monitor directors and to shape the overall policy for the Agency. The proposal is, in the spirit of good governance in enterprises and institutions, focusing on the separating of policy authority and implementation. There's something in the spirit of this article, Mr. President, which is presented here as a reasoned proposal for new administration at the Land Hospital. There have been indications that the idea that has been floating and lying in the air for some time, including As shown in the 2017 article, recent growth has been observed. In particular, I allow myself to refer to a news item that is applied to the U.S. TV website, as it calls itself, February 4, U.S.A., which says, by permission of the President: ▪ Land hospital management has not been controlled for years, but Secretary of Health, Syggis Svavarsdóttir, feels that it is now possible to consider the possibility that the hospital will be controlled. That's what came out in Kashlight tonight. Of course, I welcome this statement. Minister and allow me to hope that this proposal will have extensive support at the Council. It is presented at a time marked by the fact that the hospital's affairs have been very important to the public talk. A recent report was submitted by the campaign group on release during the long wait period for hospital admissions ▪ An external review. This is a health minister report, and its authors are two Swedish experts. A review of the record of these fine experts shows that these are significant and well - established scholars with impressive careers. This is shown in a report that I plan to quote on the Web site that appeared on February 29, 2020, the shortest day of the race, with the permission of a president: Despite the long - standing obvious nature of two Swedish experts, the directors of the Land Hospital did not react to the emergency crisis. Instead of taking action, they have painted the hospital as a victim, which, according to the experts'opinion, was actually dangerous. The report further says: ▪ At the beginning of the year, a team was appointed to be analyzed and suggested how to solve the situation at the emergency room in Fos Soil. The group sought the opinion of two Swedish experts, Markus Castegrens and Johan Permerts, who have previously reached comparable assessments abroad and returned their results on February 20, the past year. There they report urgent reflux and design problems in the emergency department, which they say have been obvious to all for a long time. I'm going to cut down briefly, Mr. President, in the report of these foreign experts, to stress the importance of the management process of the Land Hospital being in accordance with the demands generally made for heavy- and highly responsible companies, as to making up the Landsaholic. It says, by permission of the president: The highest government of Land Hospital is in the hands of the executives and the executives. According to Icelandic law, the director of the Land Hospital is responsible for all decisions. The Commission has a responsible role but does not make decisions. Those closest to the director are the medical director, the director of nursing and the assistant to the director. Even though the problem and circumstances in the hospital were obvious and sustained for some time, with the full consciousness of the director, no apparent measures have been made to solve the problem. The measures taken have been directed to secondary effects rather than to attack the root causes of the problem. The message received from hospital managers suggests that the problem is more social than a problem the hospital can solve or deal with within the hospital. I'm finally going to grab back into this report, with the permission of the president: However, it is very risky for the hospital to claim that he is a victim instead of a responsible person for the problem and therefore has a role in the solution of the problem. Since the Landspians claim that the long - term actions of other members of the welfare system, e.g. building up new nursing homes and increased resources for the hospital, being the only solutions in sight to improve the emergency room, makes people feel that action within the hospital is of little importance. Whatever the hospital does, the problem will be perspiration. Mr. President. It is time to revise the administration of the Land Hospital. It is necessary to appoint over the hospital a government government that will become the manager at the same time for support and to have the role described in the bill I recommend here. The role, as I mentioned earlier in my speech, is that a government should confirm the Agency's organization, its annual work programme and budget, and its long-term policy. This is a very important project, and in accordance with the instructions set out in this bill and the high requirements for those taking place in the management board of the Agency can be expected to be a major success in such activities. This would be one of the largest and most important organizational matters in the modern - day New World Health Organization. I won't say anything more for now. I expect the bill to remember this discussion and to get reviews, and I'm willing to give in view of the hope that it will be a continuing discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u84	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for history. This is the most excellent thing I agree with in my princely rule. A senator that I am not unlikely to be able to achieve an excellent partnership here at the council. What I would like to have more information about the order of the administration. It says that governments who are medical experts and/or health professionals in the field of management, financial and policy, or who have expertise in hospital operations and management are to be appointed. This is left open after a while. Now, we on a welfare committee have a bill on the change to health care law where there's a lot of money being spent in the national administration program. It is, in fact, there. suggest that medical, nursing, and so - called professional advice be replaced, and an article of the law will be dismissed that it is a medical physician or department responsible for the professional services provided. If this remains the law, we have a situation in which the director has enormous authority in the present position, and it is also not in control. This is virtually true of none of those who have given reviews, but that is another story. I wondered why, and when this matter comes up anyway. A senator who is an executive of this fine case may have wondered about the definition or determination of who is on this board and it is clear that there are some who have a sense of business and can provide support there and then others who have a certain professional responsibility and who provide the manager and staff of the hospital after the incident of professional support, whether it is not possible to have this thoroughly explained or subjugated. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u85	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I wanted this bill to focus on the main issues involved that would involve hospital management, that all the affairs of the hospital are not in the hands of directors and executives as they have been without such managers having control and support. Therefore, it is done on the basis of my advice that sectors do not refer to the bill text as to the precise selection of directors; general requirements for knowledge on health science and on such factors are sufficient. I allow myself to hope that to form a member of a council committee, including the U.S. In view of reports such as these, ideas and suggestions on how to determine how to choose those in authority might be better than the above. But I didn't want this case to be about that point. I wanted it to be about the big things I think very important and necessary, that control of the hospital should come.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u86	Madam President. I appreciate the answer, and I don't have much to say. But I wonder what. A senator does not have certain opinions about whether this is primarily a business or a business government or a professional government. This case has certainly been discussed, i.e. Hospital management, a considerable number of recent discussions, makes it easy for professionals in the hospital to think about this in particular. Others come to this conclusion from a business point of view, saying: "We sometimes have directors and directors of this big business, and we have a lot of responsibility that does not necessarily have knowledge and experience in such matters. Just so I can understand why. A senator who puts this matter into practice, and I sit as an emissary officer on the welfare committee, I ask if it is in order to open up and just by hand whether this government is exactly subjugated to the level of order and who is in charge of it. It is primarily to get this government to begin with that is behind rather than that it is the exact instigator of how it is organized and who is exactly shiped.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u87	Madam President. I thank you again for the comments presented here. It is absolutely fundamental in this matter that there are two basic factors that ratio into this government. It is a knowledge of health science on the one hand. It is totally in place, making clear in the bill that they are being met by the firm wishes of the health - care professions for an increased access to the hospital government. It is being met with the bill, and it is very clear. On the other hand, there is a requirement for entry into this administration to persons with expertise and operating experience, which is specifically referred to as the experience and knowledge of hospital management. Thus, these two components are expected to meet in this management. Expert knowledge - I wanted to allow myself to say - in health science and in business, management, planning, and other factors. I feel absolutely necessary that these factors both exist in such a government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u88	Madam President. I think it's safe to say that there is an excellent agreement at the council, or it seems to me that there can be an excellent agreement for a prince to appoint control over the hospital. I have spoken for many years but have not had much work to do. I'm not quite sure that the output suggested by the wind. transporters of this bill, which is good for us to be accepted into the chamber, are good enough. So I'd like to ask you why. For the first two questions: How do the movers conclude that it is proper for seven people to sit on that government? It's an unusually large government. Something tells me it could be more slow than fast. I would have understood five or even nine men's rule, but with seven, there's some argument I can't see here. The other is that I understand this bill so it's not being suggested that the management of the Lands Hospital receive the authority that other governments have in companies at least Where I know to rule, and to run directors. I need to be corrected by the original - language counsel if I don't understand something at all. I think control of a company or an institution that doesn't have the authority to employ and run director is weak and is more or less heavily dependent on the director himself. [[The president calls.]] That's why I ask, "Is that a correct understanding for me? ' - He's a shipman?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u89	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I thank him in general for his words that the main idea presented here for the management of the hospital is broadly supported. It is a good thing for the senator to recall that in recent years he himself spoke of it. The bill is not so growing that there is some new invention, but it is here endeavoring to implement an idea that has been floated in the Icelandic community for years and without the appearance of a bill as it has been, to make it known to me. He asks why seven, not five or nine? There is doubt, Madam President. It may be that having seven is endeavoring to take a different course. It's not the big thing in my mind if there's five or seven directors, but I'd like to have the nine, I have to admit it. In my mind, however, there is no crucial point whether there are five or seven. So I view it as a practical thing, and I wonder when the idea is developed more closely, as I could in my reply to my previous answer, that it could be shaped at that point. You're right. A senator points out, this is not directly stated, but a normal government has the task of hiring and running directors. It can be said that the matter would not be damaged, although in its continued progress there would be a clearer law on that point than found in the bill. [[The president calls.]] You're absolutely right. I'm expecting the bill to get a very careful treatment, to form at the scene. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u90	Madam President. I appreciate the answers. In itself, there's only seven people talking. I have personally experienced throwing out a number that sounds good. There is no particular evidence behind that. It's all right, but the bill as it happens, unless I have a big misunderstanding, is suggested that the board is not authorized to hire and run director. In 1st. The bill is the role of the board. It says, with permission of the highest power. President: The Agency shall be established by the Agency's organization, its annual work programme and budget, and its long-term strategies. The management board shall oversee the activities of the Agency and that its management is within the framework of the budget at any given time. The chairman of the board shall be instructed regularly by the minister of operations. These are the tasks proposed in the bill to the management board, which means that, in my mind, it is not possible to be legalized and say: The government has the role and responsibility to hire the director and is responsible for the director for the Minister of Ministers, the Council, in effect all who need to approach the Land Hospital as well as the employees. Transporters have made a conscious decision to weaken the government. That's what I'm trying to point out, unless I'm confused about the article. I heard what was going on. Now that my understanding is correct, the government is not to be hidden from one of the most important controls, which enables it to handle the tasks that the movers want the board to have and to be responsible for all of us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u91	Madam President. It has ever been said that silence is not something. It may be a tricky source if you want to work with it. There's not a lot to say about this point on the bill, it's just right about what you're looking at. A senator, but it's a long way about a door to close the conclusion, like the otter. A senator makes that the bill does not assume that director control and driver's. I said in this symposium a few minutes ago that I thought it would not interfere with the case, although that point would be violated in the church treatment that must be delayed at the end of the 1st. The conclusion that you have. A senator draws from the silence of the bill on this, or word food, whether they want to say about this point, is on the limit to be realistic, I'd like to say. She's just not. These are features that are often discussed, such as numbers of government officials. Should they be sevens or other numbers? It may depend on how far humans want to go, to form a way to meet the needs of the individual health professions for representatives in the board, etc. Of course, a judicial hearing regarding the role of the government in controlling and running the director would not be a cause of harm to the case but benefits. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u92	The President reminds us of everything. Councilmen should respect the time limit of two minutes when one or two responds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u93	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson's obituary for a well-worked bill. I am one of the traders, and I consider the matter to be beneficial for the operation of the Land Hospital and the bill as such, especially in the light of the problems of the Land Hospital, which are many and the painful maintenance procedures that it now faces. Not only is the hospital's situation financial but it is organizational, and there is evidence that the hospital is accepting better - down assignments. It is now that public companies are just as important as personal companies to work on the basis of good governance. It is heard in most parts of the history in order to view government by public enterprises as an extension of political parties, and it is impossible for governments to carry out their legal role in such bondage. Government officials have the same responsibilities and responsibilities as those in private companies. They must work primarily on the legal functions of the company and/or the organisation and their confidentiality is primarily with the company or the Agency. The financial crisis of the Land Hospital is an annual subject, often accompanied by a negative discussion that makes it possible for the hospital's employees to work day and night under heavy stress to be in the background. In addition, this negative conversation causes anxiety and insecurity for the patients. Of course, it is important to know how the hospital's government would be composed. It must have a professional, administrative weight, as it were, and the government must be professionally organized, not political, and should have extensive experience with policy and business practices, as mentioned in Article 1. The bill. The budget has to be set up about 70 billion annually in the county hospital business, and we must, of course, demand that the service level be good, professional strength be good, and this vast amount of money is handled wisely. I do not view this as a failure to direct the hospital. The management board of the hospital will supervise the operation and not operate the business, that is, the ideologies behind this bill. It should then have a way and a problem with policy and monitoring of the professional element. This includes the support of those who direct funds to the hospital but also the maintenance of the hospital officials in their business affairs. International government studies show that there is a very strong link between all aspects of management, risk and follow-up. Therefore, an efficient management is required so that companies are able to manage the risk and implement a successful follow-up. A clear purpose must be followed, followed, and focused on the most important matters so that they can be discussed fully and that a decision - making decision is in the right priority. It is also important that the management board regularly assess its work, its practices and practices as well as the progress of the hospital by noncommitance, as appropriate. Such success evaluations allow control to evaluate one's strengths and weaknesses and to consider the more successful aspects. Therefore, the role of the board must be clearly defined. It's supposed to be control, counselling and dating control. It is important to ensure the proper width and depth of knowledge within the government. It is not likely that each manager will have a complete view of all aspects of a complex business environment. Thus, if the government is to function, it is important that the collective knowledge of the executives is that the government can assess the hospital's management in its own way and provide rulers with the necessary support and support. It is as important, then, to look to the structure of the government as an overall result of the knowledge of government officials as well as to the knowledge of individual government officials. The discipline and the formality that good administration guarantees reduces many dangers, especially in a small community, and is likely to increase credibility and trust in the hospital. A former surgeon and current health - care assistant told him of ideas of setting control over the Land Hospital three years ago and took a good look at them. He says that if the government had a professional and administrative weight, it would be a good support for the future governor of the Land Hospital. Mr. President. Stability, professionalism, and honest discussion are all factors that will strengthen the hospital as one of the most important institutions in the country. The need for direction over the operation is needed so that governments can fulfill their role lovingly, receive the support they need, and provide reasonable supervision for the hospital's finances.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u94	Madam President. I thank you for his errand in which he introduced this bill, since I am a co-porter with nine others. Councilmen from two categories. The land hospital is the largest workplace in the country and is also the most expensive institution in the United States. Therefore, it is important to problem all aspects of the Agency. The bill expects seven men to be ruled by the Agency, organized by a four - year minister. This will be health experts, management, financial and policy, or will have expertise in hospital operations or operating. It is thus assumed that in the management board, people who have ran knowledge on the other side and people who also have professional knowledge of health sciences, which I believe are very important. Whether the board has seven or five men, I think it's a complete secondary factor. I assume that when the committee gets involved, these events will be discussed and determined as to what is the most desirable size of such a government. It's an essential element, but it's still important, and I'd like to remind you that it's important, because of the professions many in the hospital, that there are people in the board who have a wide range of knowledge in the various fields. Hence, it is desirable that the government is very small, perhaps three men. But this will be considered on a committee and discussed there. Another thing I'd like to mention, because I'm not going to extend this discussion at all, is that such a government is known in all our neighbors and not here. With regard to the hospital's problems in the past few years, not only a business problem but also a problem, such as the emergency unit and the mass - talking problem that one would like to call a flow - flow problem, of course, the problem needs to be solved. One way, especially in terms of the Agency's spending side, is to put control over it. I also wondered, " Of course, the director and the board need power to use their influence in the hospital business. ' I expect those two items mentioned here that have been discussed in the preceding committee will be discussed fully with the committee and come to a conclusion. I'd also like to agree with an authority executive that it is one of the largest organizational matters in the Icelandic Health Organization to establish this agency under strong management, professional and business practices.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u95	Madam President. I would like to recommend a synonym as to the balance of Icelandic sports achievements. The members of this council are members of the United States Parliament. The interpretation proposal reads: The General concluded to hide a minister of education and culture in agreement with the secretary of finance and economics to provide a bill for the payment of a fund for successful athletes. The purpose of the fund must increase the financial security of athletes and increase their prospects of pursuing its sport. The minister gives the bill no later than the 151th legislature. Madam President. This proposal suggests that the Secretary of Education and Culture will be committed in consultation with the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs to prepare and submit a bill on the Icelandic Sports Prize. The purpose of the pay fund would be to create a financial basis for the exercise of its sport. A master of chess as well as artists'remunerations may be looked to as well as those who pay the job pay to candidates for certain conditions they meet. Paying a job's achievements increases the rights and safety of athletes. It is important that the preparation and implementation of the labour fund of athletes will be done closely with the Iceland and the Olympian Union. The success of our athletes has brought attention to the world over. We have a number of athletes who have increased Iceland's husk during the Olympics, world championships, and European conventions. The movers believe that it is time for government to be more supportive of Icelandic athletes, the models of their youth. In December 2019, very successful athletes in Iceland sent out a declaration concerning their terms of elections. It says: ▪ After the sports career, many Icelandic athletes end up with debt on their backs and no rights. High school athletes don't have pension rights, trade union union union unions, unemployment benefits, access to medical and staff funds, or rights to maternity, to name something. The 2017 work group report on a review of the rules of the improvement fund of ISI contains, for example. discussed the importance of developing athletes'ability to concentrate on exercise and competition while enjoying minimum income as a result of extensions and needed expenses. That's where the President's permission says: ▪ A direct scholarship is needed for athletes in the form of monthly productions, as the athlete has the full right to make the money. From these words, as well as those previously quoted, it can be seen that the strength available to successful athletes has often been used at the direct expense of the athletes because of participation at international conventions abroad, not during exercise periods. There are other factors that would be worth pointing to, which can be found in a paper with the synopsis, but I'm not going to say it, but I'm going to suggest that, at the end of the discussion, this case be referred to. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u96	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgadóttir gave Helgaydóttir a great deal for his history and for putting up this need. As a result, a group of reverends along with several other members of the council may have a comparable case that has been proposed. If so, it will soon be on the program at the council. This simply means that the Council is hiding the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture to shape the collective policies for athletes and that policy will be timed together with the level of financial support. In the big picture, we're talking about the same objective, and the big thing is that we do something about it. Hv. A senator did well in his report where the shoe squeezes. It's not going to be both released and kept in it. If we are to have success as athletes for the people of all nations, so to speak, and then as role models for our young people who are taking their first steps, we need to live in such a group as to be acceptable and to be able to care for these matters. I wonder what. A senator's episode, if the subject I'm talking about here is soon to be on the agenda and it will not be the point of delaying the matter that is being measured here, that we would be put together in this and we'd unite our efforts to get to the best of it. I'm so smart that we could get a Senate home with us in it. How's that? It's a senator's?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-04-69.u97	Madam President. Thank you. A senator is delighted to hear what has been said by members of the Parliament for the contrary. That subject is very familiar with the case. Sometimes it is said that big minds often agree and think in a similar way, and I think we can totally agree on the matter of the Councilhood and the House council's affairs. We're talking about role models for Icelandic youths, we're talking about public health, and we're principally talking about the equal fortunes of foreign athletes when they meet the athletes they're competing with in a very different setting than Icelandic athletes who have to work full hours together with their sports industry. I think these matters work together very well.
