ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u1	With letters dated on December 4, 2020, the president has requested this, as shown by number 8 of the 1st. 13th par. Parliaments, on the board of administrations and monitoring committees, discuss the report of the State Re-evaluation, labour market action in the time of an epidemic - Covid report No. 2, and to the budget that it discusses a State Review Report, the effect of a pandemic crown on financial matters - Covid Report No. 3.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u2	There have been letters requesting every time to provide written answers to queries: From a foreign and development secretary to a request for a file. 317, on the emissary and the contact manager, from Sæmundsson; from the Minister of Justice for a petition. 276, on saving prisoners in Akureyri, from Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Year's Daughter; and from the social and child-friendly minister for a petition on deck. 320, um, about the agent and the contact manager, from Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u3	Consider: Prime Minister, health minister, travel, industrial and innovation minister, education and cultural minister, secretary of state and resource and justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u4	Mr. President. The huge challenges of the country's rural society because of the Cronovirus epidemic have shed light on the government's practice of approaching the affairs of rural society rather than on the interests of its inhabitants. I'm asking the highest. Minister to the word of her fellow minister, the chairman of the Mission Party, due to the Reykjavíkurburg's requirement for earning balance, an equation for operating basic schools, and a contribution for new education, a requirement required by the head of the Action Party to call an unexploited and inexplicable chase to Reykjavíkurburg to other rural communities, a mission to the country. There is no evidence other than that the city's demand is completely justified in terms of the Community budget. It appears that on the watch of this government and until the law was changed to the given cause last year, the city of Reykjavík was unregistered from the above equation funds. I'm asking the highest. Minister on this matter. Much of the funds involved are about basic education in Reykjavík, and the Ministry of Education is, of course, a Councilman of Smoking. This is about operating the basic schools there and supporting students who have English as a second language. I'm estimated to be the highest. A minister justified in setting this matter up as a battle between the settlements and the capital? We have a common interest because there is a strong national structure and a strong capital that can fulfill this obligation. And we also have an advantage because law does not follow a political opportunity every time. I'd like to get the highest position. The minister and member of the council for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u5	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry and shows the importance of our meeting in the struggle to strengthen our educational system; that education is for all; and we work together to do so. In view of the demands of Reykjavík and the balance fund, it is understandable, and everyone is trying to do what they can to ensure their foundation. I won't go out in it at this point how the whole thing looks exactly. But I completely agree with what. A senator that is of utmost importance to business, and everything that societies are doing, is completely sustainable. There, everyone needs to consider how things are going. We have worked very hard with the Icelandic company in this Korean epidemic. We've been working on school rules, that's been a huge consultation with all the instructors. We've also been working on a comprehensive education policy, education policy to the year 2030. We've also been working on a white book on the subject of children's language other than Icelandic and the procedures under which the government has been going, of course, linked to the rural communities as well. Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u6	Mr. President. I'm very sorry to hear that. A minister did not trust to take his stand on this matter because it is simple. It's the government and the highest. A minister of the Soviet Union has made such a point that she can answer the question, Is the law being violated in the city of Reykjavík? However, the word of the secretary of transportation, the minister of the local government, is very heavy and, in my opinion, unremarkable to the largest rural society in the country, what do they think of it? Reykjavík is undisputed when it comes to the affairs of social services of various kinds, and this is presented in a report in the European Union. I present interested persons for coverage in the core today. It'll be another one. I'll ask the Minister to give up the highest position. Education minister to these words because this is especially harmful when it comes to the national community relations and major rural communities with the government. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to point out the highest. The secretary of transportation simply said that Reykjavík was breaking down my rural society by going to get money there because it's against the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u7	A respectable president. All I want to do is go over the economics the government has been going on. For example, I'm going to point to college and high school, and most of the high school and university are all here in Reykjavík. We are adding billions and billions to our education system, and I truly enjoy the city of Reykjavík, where I am a senator, a profit and a benefit from it. By adding, we are totally putting up our high school. The education system is hosting 3,500 new students at the university and high school, and all of this, of course, would be most useful to the largest community in Reykjavík. It is from time to time, and extremely unscrupulous of what. A senator, saying that the government is not supporting all of our societies. I'm going to say this: What's been going on is that the government has raised its debt, but it's going from 20% of national product to over 60%. Of course, it takes advantage of everyone in the country. I do not appreciate a lawsuit that is always in the way of saying: There are some who live in Reykjavík and some who live in the country. We're all in this together.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u8	A respectable president. The lack of employment is now measured by 11%, and more and more are being found among those with only basic employment benefits or financial support. The pursuit of food distribution has grown dramatically, and it is clear that fewer people are able to find out more than will. It's Christmas time. There are many families who rely on food distributions in order to celebrate Christmas. There is no evidence, however, that the State will increase its support to the food distribution public organization. In spring, a budget of individual operations of up to 25 million were approved. K. to ten helper groups, which received 2.7 million each. But there is no room for similar arrangements now for Christmas. Today's going to be the best. The Minister of Education to measure for a bill that's about the government paying high to half a billion for the extraordinary media. Many of them have been bought by rich people who use them to influence the discussion and are caught up in political propaganda that supports the interests of their wealthy owners. They have purchased this medium, not for profit, but for the sake of buying power. It looks like nearly half a billion each year will be a regular part of the budget for the coming future. This may not be the time. The prime minister will be here this afternoon when the discussion on the media bill is conducted, so I'm here to ask questions. Every dollar we add to our poorest brothers and sisters gives the community a multiplicity. Does a minister really consider it a protection to prioritize the government's financial resources in a way that strengthens private media? I'm going to pray to the highest. Ministers not to repeat the various operations of the government during the terms of their reply, as it is evident that they were not sufficient and that there is a need for more support for the poor and the poor.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson's inquiry. But I can't help him to answer only what he wants me to answer. I must go over what we've been doing for these groups. Because I know why. A senator is, for example, one. Care for the interests of micro-energy pensioners, I'd like to mention $50,000. a single payment that is expected when the Council has completed its payment to this group that we know is a palace. I'd like to mention December supplementation for jobseekers introduced by the Department of Social Affairs and Child Services. I'd also like to mention the fact that this government has improved unemployment during this terms, first in 2018, and then it will rise again by year. They will then have increased by more than 30% during this terms, while economic aid in rural society has failed to increase in the same way, which is, of course, a concern. I'd also like to say that we've been supporting more fully with members of the organization who are taking care of it for as long as possible. A senator makes it a subject. Both have the highest. Social Affairs is supported by a relief organization, as well as by the government, certain sums of their contributions to these organizations for Christmas. Hv. A senator, on the other hand, sets this up with the media bill that will be discussed later today. I think it's a matter of interest to all of us here, and we represent at the General, in a synagogue, to make decisions for society, that media can have their important responsibilities to give us here the necessary support needed in a democracies community. I'd like to remind you that the suggestions are the best. Education Ministers here recommend that they don't stand out of thin air. In many ways they are comparable to what we see in other countries where such support is right and is designed to promote democratic discussions and community support.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u10	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. I can agree with her about the media, that they need to be strengthened, but to put them on direct government grants and make them dependent on the state is not the right way. There's no way to pump money from the government in a town company. It just doesn't make sense. But to the people? It would be closer to make sure that people get in on their own. What should be said to older citizens who are unable to give their children a present when they cannot even get to a grocery store for food? There's a big group out there who can't get anything. At the same time, we're about to pump half a billion into a private company. I can't agree with this. V.E.G. The prime minister must agree with me that we should keep it so that the people are first and then the rest will come.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u11	Mr. President. People first, but democracy is also important for the people. Of course, priorities are always difficult, but when we take together what I covered here, including A special arrangement for microenergy workers, jobseekers, increased support to the relief organization that I am quoting here, can be seen in a clear priority. The democracy is not that we can just put it aside and keep it, no more than the equality of the sexes. Much of the democracy is that this fourth power, the media, is active and plays a role. I testify again that this is what we have seen in other North countries, i.e. to support the media so that democratic discussions are secure, but this does not mean that they do not have to push themselves to the full. It's the thought behind the bill that's here today. I don't think it serves people's interests to set the interests and interests of democracy against each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u12	V.E.G. President. It is always a delight and a joy to see and feel when the nation is united in good things. There could be many reasons for this in the field of sports and so forth, where the national pride takes place, with me and many others. That feeling came to mind when I watched TV on Saturday night. There were phone calls to raise funds for the hospital, Vog or SA. It gathered about 42 million, and it was a pleasure. The very purpose of this collection is less satisfying in itself. It was held because there is no money to run this institution. In recent years, the elf sale, its produce, has been used to run this organization as it is run today, even though the list of clients did not accept it, it's just to drive it off on the basis of what is being done today. But now the elf sale has not been in action because of Covid, and this was a most enjoyable board. That question comes to my mind, and I direct it to the highest. Healthcare Minister, whether it is time for government to achieve contracts and settle down with staff members of the U.S.A. and even more treatment sectors, because the U.S.A. is not the only center where it was primarily under contracts in this situation, and it leads to the conclusion that this course of care can be run with pride.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry and can please him because I have already met the new leadership of the United States and have a very pleasant meeting with them, along with a doctor and other staff. We have been in close and growing cooperation, especially because of the importance of being exposed to the activities requested in Vogi and related to other health care professionals. That's where I know we're gonna do it. A senator agrees, i.e. That health care, Vogi hospitalised special care as well as medical services for specific groups at the Land Hospital and Akureyri Hospital are all integrated. An increasing number of walking services have been very interesting to me, and I have emphasized that. I examined earlier this year in a very rapid and handsome structure for the development of the U.S. walks in the Top Search, where the service is to achieve significant results for diverse groups. You see, the health problem is very complex, and it is not one type of service that suits all. I'm aware that a financial committee has been looking at improvements, both at 2nd. Money, as well as money money money. So I believe it is our common understanding that we are here at the council Hall to ensure that a business environment is needed for those who enjoy this service.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u14	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer, and I'm glad to hear that a conversation is going on, but words are for the very first time. I'd also like to remind the Minister of a synonym that signed a petition, and it shows that 1997 responded to a growing plan-making waiting list, where it was achieved to shorten a waiting list to almost zero in 2000. Since then, such work is essential to success. Ministers are right, this has developed a lot, and the walking department has made its success. It was also a joy to see in the summer that psychological treatment for children from homes where alcoholism is a great benefit to them and is a very rich and good guardianship, so that I just encourage the minister to do good works and hope that we can work together on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u15	A respectable president. Because of what? A senator here specifically mentioned the faerie sale in his first question, especially because it is the very nature of the matter that falls down as a matter. The legal committee has considered these matters. I agree with this, and I'm particularly happy to see how much emphasis has been made on walking in order to match diverse groups as well as these families had a approach that is reflected in the increased psychological services for children and for families. This is a situation that involves not just the one or the only ones in it but also the entire environment and the family. More often than not, with the help of specialists and psychologists, the sufferer's story of shock is being sewn up to get a sharper view of the problem and possible solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u16	Mr. President. Iceland is among the most garbageier in Europe according to the latest EU Habitat, Eurostat. In this country, there will be over 700 pounds [700 kg] of trash per person every year. The amount of waste will fall very little, and there is no evidence that in Iceland greenhouse gas emissions are by far the most abundant in the world. Still, we talk about it as if we are in quite a good way. A new climate program is ambitious but leads to disappointment. A Black report presented at the Davos Economic Conference this year shows that resource use has become new and historical. Mankind has never been as fast as on earth's resources. Intensification is low and recycling is reduced. A new report by Capacent for the National Climate Council paints a dark picture of the situation. It says that climate management is a weak, disintegrating management, and this is primarily the reason that climate literature does not improve. These reasons, no system changes, and unrealistic predictions of a major recession are clear evidence that before 2030, we will not achieve the goals of the Paris Convention, much less. If something's gone, we'll be far away from them. Here, a whole political vision of a climate - living society was missing, and the council is actually quite far away from the discussion. That is why it is so urgent and timely, the proposal of the ten - team United States for a green-growing revolution that goes away at all levels, e.g. In transportation, education, investment, and land use, this is the main thread all the way. There's little evidence of this in government plans. I'm asking a minister: Is the government a failure in this important issue? Isn't this the above judgment? Is the situation not of serious concern, and is it not more than just a matter of life's worth, urgent, immediate action, and progressive failure, working on these matters in a far more powerful, more targeted, and direct way than has so far been done?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u17	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Hv. A senator came, even In the climate administration, they mentioned unrealistic predictions that would not be easy to follow. I don't agree with you at all. True, an assessment of the administrative affairs of climates has been made by the one taking this article, and this is a good thing. We've not only undergone major infrastructures that are already present in climates, including by raising funding for our institutions to deal with climate projects, whether in research, in accounting, or in other areas. We've got a lot of resources at the Ministry to deal with climate issues. We have set up a new office that has particular focus on climate issues in the Ministry and other offices designed to integrate international and other environmental issues, such as climate change. Then they talk. A senator for unrealistic predictions of the government's actions on climate. It is not more unrealistic than it is, so the major climate experts are the ones who have promoted and cooperated with us. This criticism, in turn, is not merely a criticism of the government but a criticism of the professional who is working with us in these predictions. The prophecy shows that we will have more success than our present commitments indicate. A healthy vision of climate is available in this government. In the year 2040, it is achieving a non-carbon fraction, and it is meeting against the Paris congregation, as our plans are expected to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u18	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answer. It is good that he is optimistic, but we worry that success will not be achieved. He's not there. When will we succeed? Let me ask you: What about the minister's position and measures to record and calculate the Europeans' carbon track, that it is transmitted to us, and that it draws attention to important points, to recognize and inform the general state of the environment? Is that not a good step toward developing motivation to reduce consumption? What plans does the Minister have for that? One outstanding aspect of this same material is the category of domestic waste and treatment, but we are in the circuit process of crying, still trapped in this linear thought: Buy, use, throw. What's going on in that, a respectable minister? There are many rural areas in the country, either in the presence or incineration. Is it not still a complete summary of how rural areas are taking place in this regard? Don't you need to coordinate the category of waste and treat it nationally and to promote this link, the reference context, the authority of the public? What is a minister doing in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u19	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator asks for results. I can tell you what. A senator that according to the EEA's preliminary review of the climate accounting for the past year, we are now for the first time in years to be successful. We're reducing emissions when it comes to road transport emissions by 2%. It's a success. We're reducing about 10% of waste disposal when it comes to waste. It's a success too. We're starting to see the wheels spinning because of this government's actions. Whether they like it or not, no matter where they stand in politics, these are facts. With regard to waste classification, I'd like to say that the bill is in operation at the Ministry, which I believe will make you happy. A senator very much because they will be suggested to coordinate a series of systems throughout the country, to be mandatory in homes and in companies, and to take real steps in creating a system of circulation in Iceland that I take to heart with the senator that we need to get better around the end, it's all in progress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u20	President. In the work of our senators, we are often given tips on large issues and details. Now I've been practicing archery for the past few years, which is especially a good sport for stress - making jobs. And sad to say, Congress takes too much time out of being able to play the sport enough. A measure of peace of mind and balance is needed to achieve success. Archery is probably one of mankind's oldest organized sport. I received a tip from the archery movement that in weapons laws, a child under 16 may not be sold or given an arrow with more pull than 7 kg or sharp arrows. Now, at international conventions, perhaps 13 - year - olds are beginning to compete in a international language. In fact, it is used by some 1,25 pounds [1,25 kg] of bows, which, according to our laws, would make it impossible for Icelandic youths to practice or compete in Iceland. In fact, they cannot compete, rehearse, or anything like that for foreign conventions, let alone Icelandic. Still, we are, for example. with an Iceland record of under 16. This is a recent indication that brings us into serious trouble in this sport. I wanted to speak to the highest. A minister on this problem, that Icelandic youths cannot participate in this otherwise noble, old sport, and I seek the support of a minister in fixing this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager to do this, and he cannot help but maintain a positive attitude toward these changes. I've been in contact with the Boggy Corporation for this reason, and various indications have come to the Ministry about changes to be made to attack the weapons laws, including the U.S. about age and sports, but also about other changes. Of course, it is only natural for our teenagers to stand equal to their peers in the lands around us. Of course, the laws of weapons are not to prevent youth's athletic exercise or the competition in archery and the joy of hearing it. This is where a senator reviews the success of our young people in this clearly growing sport over the past few years. Of course, it would also have to be harmonized with licenses for fireball, and it might be checked separately and if these extras could not be used for competition and practice in a consistent manner. There is a need for an overall review of the weapons legislation, both the use of the remaining EU and Schengen types, and the work is being done at the Ministry. So I welcome these changes and think it's important to examine these views and to see if they can't be dealt with by change.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u22	A respectable president. I encourage the Minister to continue his overall review of this case, absolutely. But this is a real problem today for archery young people, for weapons laws have authority to give way to divulgeing from high school sports, which may not be as urgent a problem in this regard. We can take an example, the current Icelandic record holder in a archipelago, both under 21, 18 and 16, is a 16 - year - old girl, what a hero on the road, but that's probably because she's been practicing lately. That's what this law has to say about the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator back there. I think it's very peculiar for the 30th requirement. The law, that the Marshal can dismiss a ban if specific reasons recommend it, would not control this case. This may have been the kind of law that was put into the law at that time to meet specific circumstances, such as this one. Clearly, archery is a sport that is growing and prospering in Iceland, and we certainly want to support it. So this is something that I'm about to look at, and I'm just going to celebrate the bill and change it, and I'm looking forward to looking at it by reason of reason. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u24	A respectable president. At this time of the year, the screening for cervical cancer for health care and breast - examination will be removed from Iceland's cancer club and will be the responsibility of the National Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri. Some time ago, preparation for this move was made quite clear, as was shown in an unprepared inquiry I asked for. Minister of health at the beginning of February. But then a pandemic struck us and all the pressures he puts on our health - care system. It was important that women will have an organized search for cervical and breast cancer and that women can be confident that they will continue to be fully screened. Sadly, in recent years women have been less diligent in this service, but by good preparation and loyal service, they can be restored. So I'm back in an unprepared inquiry about the position of these cases. A respectable president. It is important that these changes do not diminish the experience and knowledge established by the cancer group and the best way to improve women's carcinogenicity. That's why I'm asking the highest. Health Minister: Has it been possible to train midwives and those who are responsible for screening for cervical cancer on health care for the country? The cancerski Compatibility Centre should supervise the search for cancer in Iceland. Where is that preparation for that center, and has it been designed? Is it possible to make good use of the knowledge that has been established by the cancer society by employees who have worked there for such a purpose that health care will be consulted on the land? And finally, it is said that a sample of cell specimens should be removed from the country. Is it not, then, that there is a danger of a lack of knowledge and unforeseenity in these matters and that knowledge of these matters will not remain on the land?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u25	A respectable president. The especially trained midwives and nurses will take cervical samples at the clinics in the capital area in the same way that midwives and nurses have done at clinics in the country since 2015. Training by midwives and nurses is already under way and is expected to be completed in January or February. There will not be any major changes in health care facilities in the country, and this will be done in the same format as before. In cooperation with the health care of the capital area and health institutions across the country, Iceland's cancer community is now training midwives and nurses who will conduct this project after a year. Their experience and knowledge will therefore continue to be used in this changed cancer - related organization. The preparation for cancer's cohesion centre is successful, and the task manager of the health care of the capital area is working in the setting up of the accounting system over which the Compatibility Agency will oversee. The Compatibility Network will work around seven employees, but in different working ratios. This group consists of various experts, such as doctors, nurses, counting experts, and writers. As noted earlier, there is not much change in health care facilities in the country, and the procedure will be the same as in the past, while the cancer club's employees are now cooperating with the health care of the capital and health facilities in the country, training midwives and nurses. Thus, experience will continue to be useful, and health care in the country has offered the midwives continued work that is now taking those samples. For cellular vision and observation, it is a contract in terms of health insurance that are now working on a temporary read-out contract. A respectable president. I'm going to be able to find a complete way to this in later on in my answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u26	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and is pleased to know that despite Covid, it is still working on this matter. So I might continue, but it's now time to transfer breast cancer screening from the Forest Road to Erik Street in the spring months. Is it ready, and has it guaranteed the staff who move there and that the operation will be compatible with what has been so far?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u27	A respectable president. Come on, on about the vision. Cell biopsies plus HPV samples will be temporarily performed abroad during the longer term procedure. The final decision has not been made on where the cell vision will be investigated after a temporary contract expires. A surgeon suggested that cell samples be read at a land hospital, but the hospital is not prepared to take over immediately. Participation in a routine screening for cervical cancer is the primary premise in achieving the target of reducing incidence and mortality. To achieve these goals, you also need to reach them. to ensure the safety and quality of the laboratory tests. Hv. A senator also asks about a facility on Erik's Street. This role has been arranged by a man in the Land Hospital, and the Lands Hospital has offered some of the staff from the Cancer Society work. The address on Erik's Street was handed over to the National Hospital last week and is estimated to be ready in the beginning of April. As noted earlier, in the United States, after a year's convention, members of the cancer club have continued to work at the hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u28	Mr. President. The government's budget for 2019, despite a clear sign of a recession in the economy, was marked by a great expansion and a lack of departments. The increase in government spending for 2019 was out of the question. The payoff in the state account shows 67.4 billion dollars. It's worse than budget 2019. Money was overrated in budgets about 63.5 billion. So much over-established on income shows that the government's budget was depreciated. Government account for 2019 clearly indicates that the government chose to ignore clear evidence that the economy was in a rapid recession. In this situation, the government was to exercise discretion in government matters. She did not. The middle party doesn't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u29	Mr. President. We are now in our third and final discussion about a so - called duelorm. I've proposed a modification motion between the 2nd and 3rd. in which rural areas are expected to receive an estimated 2 billion dollars. Support for the stress of their social services The suggestion is this, as it is actually becoming the last opportunity to suggest that the crisis of the rural society, which is indisputably at present, be met. It is and is, I think, most of us realize that the pressures of community service have already increased dramatically. This will continue to increase substantially in the months and years. This suggestion is about adding to this bandorm that we are considering here provisional regulations that would be as follows: The funds to support rural society should be supported by an increase in the cost of social assistance in 2021. The total supply should be 2,000,000,000. and exchange between rural societys in accordance with their laid cost of providing citizens with services and assistance under these laws. The Minister must implement a more detailed Regulation on the implementation of the procedure. This is an extremely important matter and will help the rural society deal with this problem, of course not solve the whole problem, but will certainly help them to do so. The proposal is thus made that the amount of money will be divided in accordance with the calculated cost so that the amount of money will be most useful to most of the growth in social services. I got it. I got it. The House of Congress to accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u30	Mr. President. In this bill, there are some things that are nice, I'm sorry. But we in the Middle East cannot help but sit by in this case, since the benefits are insufficient. There is, in particular, an increase in the amount of carbon that we do not intend to support. It is a tax that Iceland's High School of Economics has given a fall rate, a tax that bites on poor chemical people, and has a negative impact on its benefits and consumption. The economic institutions have picked up other factors, and most of all, this tax is not fair enough for the people of the land. That is why we cannot support him. We, however, support an increase in parishes, which is a good thing, but overall we are embarrassed in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u31	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the employment board's committee's committee's committee's proposal for interpretation of measures to reduce the use of palm oil in Iceland. I would like to start by, Mr. President, especially by thanking the Committee for a good conversation on this important subject and cooperation. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the Harpa Pétursdóttir, Jón Rúnar Gíslason Eiríkur of the Institute of Energy and Baldursson, and the EEA's Environment Programme of England. The Committee received reviews from Land Protection, the Natural Institute of the University of Iceland, the Power Institute and the Environment Agency. The proposal is to hide the travel, industrial and innovation ministers from working on the limitation of the use of palm oil in all productions in Iceland and provide a bill for the ban on its use in biodisil. They suggest that the Minister introduce his findings to the Allied Council and provide the bill for the ban on the use of palm oil in biodsil no later than at the end of 2021. The reviews and comments of the visitors to the committee were generally described as supporting the aim of the proposal. Similar matters were previously used for the treatment of a professional committee at the 150th legislature (System 120). In the process of our last conversation, we met the committees Tryggvi Felixson of Land Protection, Trausti Baldursson of Iceland's Natural Institute of Nature, The Árni of Finnsson from Iceland's Natural Protection Association, Jón Bernódusson of the Group and Guðmundur Haukur Sigur Sigurðarson of Vist energy. In view of the short time that the committee received visitors, it was not considered a reason to repeat the visitors'arrival. The reviews and comments of the guests that were then presented showed a view that due to the environmental effects of palm oil, it should be a priority to reduce its use. Actually, it would not be necessary to import palm oil to add to biodisil, since there could be enough biodisil available here, including from waste materials and from the culture of mineral oil. Mr. President. More than half of the imported palm oil is used for the production of a biodiversity based on information from Iceland's Hauspology. In line with what was presented here, the Commission has a right to allow for the production of renewable fuels in Iceland and to help replace fossil fuels. The Commission believes that this proposal encourages further production and use of domestic biodiversity, thus supporting the situation in production and innovation in Icelandic agriculture and even to a considerable degree of work. The Commission was told that in 2021 a new EU renewable fuel directive (EU) 2018/2001 (RED II) is adopted, following Directive 2009/28/EC (RED I). The requirements for renewable fuel derived from feed plants will be intensified and aim to reduce the use of such fuels to the year 2030. That would even be. expected to reduce the use of palm oil from 223 to the end of it in 2030. In accordance with the Directive, the EU countries shall have completed legalization by 30 June 2021. The directive is considered in the EEA/EFTA countries but it is not yet established when it will be recorded in the EEA Convention. It is therefore unclear when it will be introduced in Iceland. The committee points out that other countries have taken great steps in the same direction. Norwegians were the first to ban palm oil in biology, but the prohibition has produced significant results since the Norwegian State agreed in 2017 to change public shopping policies in that direction. It is clear, therefore, that the development aims to reduce or remove palm oil use. The committee noted that there is no need for the Icelandic government to respond immediately and start work that aims to stop the use of palm oil. Iceland would also be better equipped for rapid and reliable internalization when it is recorded in the EEA Convention. The committee noted that it is important that time limit measures be taken to provide stakeholders with opportunities to prepare and adapt to the limitations of such changes. Palm oil would be even. one of the raw materials used in fuels to reduce greenhouse gas use. In view of the above, the committee reiterates that it is important for the Ministry to consult with the laymen in the progress of the case. The Commission has concluded that with the approved Synod arrangement it is possible to start earlier with the process that will follow the induction of the RED II directive and start work aimed at stopping palm oil in biodisil. The committee suggests that the proposal will be agreed as unchanged and that it will be signed by Director Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir Elíasdóttir Frildur Elisdótttir, Njáll Trausti Kristjánsdóttir, Haraldur Benediktsson, Njálíððið Friðbertsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigurður, Páll Jónsson, and Rós Víðisdóttir Vídótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u32	A respectable president. This is a very interesting concierge proposal that is discussed here. As the motion says, this is the case, I must say, a full reading of the impact of palm oil in fuel. I'd like to ask you what. In view of the fact that not long since they are classified as members of this council arrangement, the legal adjustment here requires obligation to mix biofuels with all fuels. Biofuels, such as corn, soy, and gratation, are just the way they work from palm trees and from all kinds of foods. So here we find that this is the most damaging thing for the environment in many ways. I'd like to ask you what. A spokesman for both the movers, as well as the handling of the matter on a Senate committee, would go further and wonder if there was no reason to change the law of fuel mixing in fuel as they are now rather than taking half of the step. The facts speak for themselves, as shown in this synopsis. As is often the case when good intentions are not evident, and the conclusion often brings negative results.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u33	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen for the answer. That's a very interesting approach. A senator is a little comparing apples with oranges in this case. The poor quality of the palm oil, and consequently little to be used, does not reduce the importance of reducing fossil fuel pollution. It does not reduce the need to use fossil fuels while we are still dependent on it. As a result, it did not come up to talk. As the committee also points out in its members'section, as shown in the reviews and also in the RED II Directive of the European Union, there are alternatives to the use of palm oil as a biodisil preparation product, to form, as a mixture. A senator listed himself, oil, waste oil, etc. As a result, I simply must answer no. We need to reduce the pollution of fossil fuels. This is one way to do it. Sadly, it is far from when palm oil was a good choice. The reason for her initial selection is likely because of its natural inexpension. It is relatively low in production and is comfortable. It's good oil, no one's denying it. But I don't think that at the time that this route was gone, no one would really imagine how much oil demand and the demand for growing crops would be. But it is indeed being tried to unwind it now. This is, I think, a very important step towards it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u34	A respectable president. We are, I think, all agreed that it is desirable to reduce the negative impact of fossil fuels use. There is every reason to look for ways to reduce pollution from fossil fuels. But it's not my answer here. It's about the fact that it's particularly in the horror reading that this council concluded that biofuel fuel from plant oil, which is about 70% of the biofuel market, is expected to release 80% more of the greenhouse gases than fossil fuels, more than 80%. And seven years ago, the goal when the left groups set up a law to use biofuel fuel was to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It says here, and I totally agree, because this is quite known size, 70% of plant biofuels are releasing 80% more of greenhouse gases than fossil fuels. And because of what? A member of the council named this case, and another thing I will consider the next question: Have a reason. Councilmen, e.g. something to consider or to discuss possible unexpected undesirable, negative consequences of this trend would indicate the use of fossil fuels for fuel use, including ... withagay? How much land can take under such conditions? Or corn, what is taking corn from many hungry people around the world when it is an obligation to mix fuel with such foods? These are examples of unexpected negative consequences from good thinking, possibly. These ideas and consequences were well - known seven years ago when the left government placed this inoculation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u35	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear we're doing what we're doing. I guess a senator agrees. All we have to do is drop fossil fuels and go to electricalization of cars or metals because both are naturally bad as a dog. A senator points out. As we have seen, growth due to palm oil is often bad. But its combustion makes the burning of fossil fuels clean. That thing hasn't changed. However, the consequences of growth are unfortunate, and we recognize it. Therefore we also suggest that it be stopped, that it be changed, and that we do our part here. Yeah, we talked about the connoisseur. In fact, we were given a very interesting presentation of the production of mineral oil in Iceland and how it is about to produce far more products than merely vegetable oil for mixing in biodisil. It also provides food for e.g. Cows. It also means that it is, for example, the same thing. It's being cultivated in the East and there's just a lot of exciting things going on. There are tremendous opportunities there for innovation in Icelandic agriculture. What is more, there is an opportunity for us to produce our own fuel that must be an important goal for us Icelanders. But to say, I think it's very important that we replace fossil fuels, and then we don't have to be talking about these materials.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u36	A respectable president. The body of the council arrangement discussed here is of great interest. It is of interest, first of all, that its members are members of political parties who proposed it and were adopted here at the General Assembly a few years ago to set laws that would be required, and to be obliged to this day, fuel producers to mix fossil fuels by what has been called biofuels up to a certain extent, in a certain proportion, i.e. to mix it with renewable fuels, as it is called. This renewable fuel, and it was known when they put these laws, is mainly derived from palm trees and various foods. Perfume, soya oil, and corn oil have been mentioned. All of these are crops. After the law went into effect in 2013, if I recall correctly, this obligation has been prior to it, and it has resulted in considerable expense for the government funds. In addition to the obligation laid upon this law, which is only a direct cost, I also have put the grand tax appeal to stimulate the import of such fuel fuel that I allow to call it. It is through the tax stimulation, the tax appeals, and it is obvious that last time I checked $1 billion a year in the form of tax appeal for fuel import. Had not come to these taxes, only traditional fuels would have been imported and paid for by taxes. It is now estimated that each year the government funds have flowed from 1 billion to the foreign manufacturers of this food fuel industry. It's only about the prehistoric, a respectable president. Then there's the synonym that I think is submitted at least. The second time has not been fulfilled. Now, though, it is for a second discussion. Besides this form of the transporters, where they come from and where they say they're going, it's also very interesting, I just let myself say almost horror reading. I'm saying I'm not questioning the facts. I think it's true and correct. This suggests that there are countries such as Indonesia and Malta that produce most of the palm oil and that these countries have already, in a few years, - of course not just for Iceland and the mixed family here, but that more countries have been in this game, if I can call them, to go for the use of biofuels - these countries, Indonesia and Malta, have already cut down a lot of their rain forests, especially for the making of palm oil, the cheapest plant oil on the market. It is no longer used as a food product or as a consumer but has increased significantly in recent decades. to care for mankind's fuel needs. It also shows that rain forests are enormously large carbon stores and some rainforests, especially in Southeast Asia, grow in carbon - rich swamps. When the forests are cleared and burned, the effects of climate change are increased because carbon is released into the atmosphere when the forest itself is burned and when the swamps are started. Fortunately, this is a debate that has been increasing in Iceland, i.e. the need to restore wetlands to stop greenhouse gas emissions. Of course, this description is not beautiful, but what impressed me most is that in 2013, when the law on fuel mixing was set up, it was a special goal to reduce greenhouse gases. However, this Convention concluded that biofuels from plant oil, which are about 70% of Europe's biofuel markets, are releasing 80% more of greenhouse gases than the current fossil fuels. 80% more. The palm oil is at its highest and is three times worse than fossil fuels. The following is soy oil, which is twice worse, as described here. I reimburse and remind me that the objective of the 2013 project was to reduce greenhouse gases and be prepared for use. But like so many of these major issues, which are environmental and climate issues, where people want to try to solve some overall solution, the only solution and try to blow down the problem in one way, too many too often are exposed to the fact that such measures often follow unexpected consequences that are extremely undesirable if not quite negative and harmful. I think it can truly be said that this is an example of such a situation. The consequences appear to be at least I am unexpected to the inhabitants of this proposal. This reality only helps them to see clearly. In fact, I'm not sure that the men were in empty darkness at the time when they set the obligation for mixing. It has been suggested for a very long time, especially when it was being encouraged to use corn for a purpose other than human consumption, as an example of corn bags or corn fuel, that one of the unexpected and undesirable effects, one of its disastrous consequences, is rising global prices on these products. Of course, most of them are affected by the people most likely to suffer, the hungry in underdeveloped countries that depend on these food crops for human consumption. It's been pointed out a long time ago. All of a sudden, people in my opinion often got ahead of themselves for a good purpose, with good goals in mind. We all agree that we want to and consider the risk of reducing pollution from fossil fuels. But we must not lose sight of the fact that our ecosystem is all alone. To transfer fuel from minerals to crops in the presence of famine in many parts of the world must raise some moral concept, at least discussion, countries as fine as ours. Hv. A senator brought here a story of the committee's opinion of this synonym. In answer to me, I asked: " Why did people stop to stop the use of palm oil? One reference is that it is produced on some scale in Iceland, although not on a sufficient scale to equalize it with the import of biofuels needed for transport here. It is completely unrealistic to discuss these matters in a way that would replace them. Then there was the possibility of switching to these oils or to someone else. I directed it to what? A senator's decision would have been more reasonable and even just to consider canceling the law on duty to mix biofuels with fuel. It was found in her case that we agreed that we wanted to aim to limit and reduce the negative consequences of fossil fuels. That happens, and we're in a particularly good position to do that in Iceland, with all our renewable energy, all our electricity and electrical vehicles that are crawling around here. I think we should take advantage of it. We are to focus on that, not in the way we are doing it, including the one we are doing. with billions of dollars from state funds, billions of subsidies to the foreign manufacturers of biofuels, striving to have laws of obligation for mixing. We're supposed to let this trend take place. It's gone a long time ago, and no one has to doubt that it will continue, the electric vehicle and the energy exchange from fossil fuels to our excellent renewable energy supply, which is the electricity and that we have plenty of here. Of course, this trend will take place here in Iceland and we should let her take place, allow the markets to deal with this too. It's all happening. There is no need to walk in the manner that the left government did in 2013, oblige for mixing, and then sit with it that a few years later these same people come here and say, "Hey, wait, we didn't realize that somehow, of course, we need to make this biofuel. They need to be made from some organic thing. It turns out that there is even food that is filled with people, and there are rain forests that play an important role in earth's ecosystems, not just in Indonesia and in these countries, but for the entire ecosystem of the earth. They have been at odds with them now by a series of short - term laws on fuel use here, solely to serve some short - term political aims at that time, and some unrealistic possibility that such laws can address all the problems that humans pretend to see in every corner when it comes to environmental or climate. I'm glad that this council-sense proposal is established in itself by this excellent diagnosis, which is presented here on the issue of mixing at palm oil. I believe, however, that it is not nearly far enough. I'm just reminding you of a bill I've committed myself over and over again, and this may be a reason for me to put forward again, to eliminate these laws set aside by the left government in 2013, and to cause the state's treasure to flow from 1 billion each year to the foreign manufacturers of biofuels.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u37	Mr. President. We have a problem. A senator completely misunderstood nature. This mixture, whether alcohol or oil - of course, was the idea, and it has always been that the oil does not come from the food itself. Men know what corn looks like, both the stems and the plant itself, much more than the grain itself. The same with sugary eyes. The same is true of some palm oil, and so can you. This is to reduce the share of fossil fuels. And why is that? Well, that's the difference between extracting fuel from the earth's carbon cycle on the surface, i.e. To use plants that bind carbon to burn it, let's say. Let's take over, just routine. The burning of the trees does not add carbon dioxide to the atmosphere. Hence, there is a fundamental difference between using some type of oil made from plants or injecting oil from the earth that has been there for millions of years. That is what makes global warming, not the carbon cycle itself, of 60 million tons. So the senator is totally off the road when she comes up and gets caught up in this case because it works by reducing the earth's forests from jungles to palm forests, which are used for fuel oil and in fuel oil. If a senator understands what I'm saying, that we're tying ourselves into the Earth's natural carbon cycle instead of fossil fuels with this council-sense proposal, then it's okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u38	A respectable president. I have to admit, I wasn't exactly following. A senator, who may not be surprised, has given me the judgment that I don't understand nature. I'm not going to argue with it until it's been denied somehow. I'm not sure we would agree on this. I haven't been talking about this council error proposal being made, or I'm not talking -- I don't know exactly what I'm talking about from the point of view. A senator, but he wanted to mean, if I correctly understood that I was missing the cycle in nature. I think I can say I'm not. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees that all these foods can be fueled, and this too can be done by burning coal and burning timbers, and alcohol can be made and what do I know? True, at least energy reduction comes out of this fuel. energy less than fossils, fossil fuels, and there is one bait on the legal requirements of mixing. We're getting more expensive fuel, but at the same time, we're going to have to buy more fuel every mile, which I'm sure we're going to take. A senator agrees, of course, that it is not good. However, I did not write the text, which says that biofuels release more greenhouse gases than fossil fuels. I'm just pointing out that if you agree on this, why didn't anyone go any further in preventing this obligation to mix biofuels with fuel?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u39	Mr. President. I'm just gonna repeat what I just said, and I think that's what. A senator put his finger on the dot. She said: "We can burn coal, and we can burn a tree. It's just the difference between all of this. By recording and absorbing gas and coal and oil, we are increasing the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. On the other hand, if we use a fuel that grows on the surface of the earth, we will cycle in a closed system where we will release carbon dioxide and tie it up and release it. We are not adding new carbon dioxide to the atmosphere. If this is misunderstood, this presentation will take its place on itself. It does not matter that some palm oil releases some more carbon dioxide than others because it is taken back from the vegetation of the earth. What is right here is not reducing the surface of the earth. This is done by replacing the jungle with a palm forest. We're trying to keep a palm tree from being over its heads grown and trying to see it all the way out. Food oil can be produced in other ways. I can inform the senator that if there's a sear made here 40 miles by 40 miles, in a few pieces, it'll do on the entire Icelandic fishing fleet. There are three products of a single plant, and the incinerator's combustion would not change anything about the carbon content of the atmosphere because when we burn grass, there is another regga that absorbs the carbon from it. This difference must be understood between adding carbon from the earth's centres to the atmosphere or being circling in the earth's carbon cycle.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u40	A respectable president. I just agree with what. A senator of this cycle. It's just some kind of laws of nature. That's nature. Hv. Actually, a senator had no question to ask me, and I'm not supposed to be asking him why. Senators in their answers, for he does not have the opportunity to answer now. However, because he mentioned that the objective of this synopsis is to free land, if I understood it correctly, to dump land from a palm forest to something else, it is just one of the things that environmental groups have pointed out over the years that it is increasingly land use because of plants that do not go to human consumption. Men have given evidence of this, pointing out how world - shaking prices are going on. In the United States, corn has increased unbearablely as a result of subsidies to corn farmers, especially subsidies that are designed to produce corn for other purposes than human consumption. This has led to an increase in the global market of corn, has brought disaster upon some African settlements, and seems to serve no purpose other than some sort of moral code when it comes to environmental issues. When you want to use something other than, for example. use of plastic or fossil fuels for May. My introduction to this is just that I ask: " Why don't people go beyond the palm oil when it comes to this, when people specifically say that it releases more greenhouse gases?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andersen for an excellent speech. It was very interesting to listen to what happened. A senator and many points from which I often feel that there is a lack of environmental discussion. What I wanted to ask you. In particular, a member of the council is already attempting to obtain annulled law on the obligation to fuel biofuels. The Senator suggested that earlier, perhaps it was time to make that claim again. I hereby state that I would be a very attractive associate of such a case. I think that's what I'm talking about. A senator's breath is of greater importance, but it is that in the environment, the causes are endless in terms of the meaning but the ways that are caused somehow by what is often called the ◯virtue sigling in English.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u42	The Devil.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u43	It's English to the Devil. Thank you, my dear. Senator, I couldn't remember the English word. But how do you know? A senator realizes that we could go back and start focusing more on what produces results in what really matters rather than on putting less energy into such virtue private matters, away from the material issues of this matter? Of course, there should be a much more extensive approach. And how can we get ourselves to the point where the action taken will produce results rather than just that good meaning and experience, to do something for our benefit? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u44	A respectable president. When it comes to the development and change in our lives, whether of longer or shorter time, it is my philosophy that the best way of life is to get them to become something natural. When it comes, e.g. that energy exchange for us is the best thing to do is to get them to do something about technology and evolution, as well as the market. Not to be overlooked is the fact that there are consumers and demands for those who are moving forward to the major developments in our lives. The consumers do, for example. the demand for environmentalized cars, demand that they be safer, and so on. In view of this, car manufacturers have responded precisely by developing fossil fuel cars that are far less polluted today than they did a few years ago, and this trend will definitely continue. I think it's also much bigger because people are even demanding other energy sources, such as electric cars. We may have gone a little far in controlling men in electric cars. I'm a little skeptical about man's supposed to act very hard on that subject because there are other possibilities, like hydrogen cars and metal cars that tell me are even as good. They are possibly the solution that will be on top of countries other than Iceland and Norway that enjoy so much electricity. I think we should look at these energy exchanges and let them happen and, of course, in some way encourage us in some direction. At the same time, we will stop spending money on activities that turn to fossil fuels because there are so much money coming out of that treasure on that basis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I can say that I only agree in every sense with what the senator mentioned here. The other thing I would like to mention is what a senator suggested about the moral values that come to form in connection with the supply of food, the development of prices, tax incentives, and other such things. And how it works in different ways in the Western world, the better part of the world, compared with developing countries. These are views that surface very regularly. It is obvious that when food shortages are present in one place, in part because prices are actually higher for farm farmers who practice the product when it is used for fuel production instead of being used for food, we must have adjusted the system in a wrong way if it is the motivation to push us toward a greater lack of food where appropriate. And it is somehow that the motivations are all wrong, and the consequences are worst in those areas that have the least access to unnecessary bleeding of money, as it were, or that approach does not achieve the intended objectives.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u46	A respectable president. We have discussed the problem of increasing food prices in developing countries. This, of course, raises a range of moral concerns. This has been studied extensively, and many of the largest environmental organizations have completely changed when it comes to these substances, e.g. the benefits of growing corn in order to make a corn bag or to use it for fuel. I'm not gonna judge men hard. Of course, when men try to engage in such activities, new viewpoints may arise that may not have occurred at the beginning of human life. However, as soon as people become aware of the negative consequences of such action, they should not persist. Then you should respond, change your mind, change your gear, so to speak. This concept is not just when it comes to fuel or food. Of course, it comes up too when we talk about energy change. We can talk about it here in Iceland and Norway, who have enough electricity and can only expect cars to produce electric cars for us and that there's always a market for them. Most countries are not in that position. It must not be that most of the world, which may be developing countries and large and populous countries, will be placed at the door and will be reduced to the quality of life and the potential for living by forbidding the use of fossil fuels for it, for example. To burn their houses. Maybe there's nothing else in the situation yet, but we're all moving toward a better source on this one. [[The president calls.]] But this cannot be, so when it comes to the great difference between developing countries and Western countries, they do not answer moral questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u47	A respectable president. I'm here representing a greater part of the Committee's National Competent Committee, with a change in bill for legislation on partnership laws, private partnership laws, social law and community law, commitment laws due to the percentage of genders in the management. The committee has discussed the matter and has brought guests to their homes as well as reports from four sources received by the commission. The bill suggests that if laws against gender ratios are not followed, it will be protected from day - to - day tickets. 13/2010 and No. 49/2011. A time of adaptation was given, with the requirements set out on September 1, 2013. These included private, partner, and partner partnerships and partnerships, which usually work more than 50 employees on a yearly basis, including to ensure that, when there are more than three rulers, the share of each species should not be less than 40%. In general, the reviews were made, and in the case of visitors to the Committee, it was a support to the bill. According to the German Union of Iceland, the labor movement was able to match the proportions of the sexes in the management of the pension fund involved. It is disappointing that companies have failed to abide by the law and therefore support ASI on the proposed proposal. Minimum share of women and men in company management. Commenting on the treatment of the case before the committee, it was noted that following a law on sexual autonomy, it is not right to speak of gender, where there are now more than two laws of gender. The Office of Equal Opportunities pointed out that changing the wording of the bill in harmony with the wording in the bill of Prime Minister for a new universal law on equal positions and the sexual rights of the members submitted at the General Assembly is more correct, but if it is adopted as unchanged, the law of equal status and equal rights of women and men, No. 10/2008. Reference was made to the wording used in paragraph 28. The above bill for new equality shapes. It has 1 mg. suggests that the proportion of women and men equal to that of no less than 40% for more than three agents should be handled by government and government. In this bill's report, it says that the law on this subject is 1,◯3. mg Twenty-two. is in a physical harmony with Article 15. The current equality laws are suggested to replace the words "missing women" and "gains." A rule on the set minimum percentages of men and women in the Committee can hardly include individuals with neutral genders, although it is unlikely that this group will be large in comparison with the number of women and men. However, it is suggested that restrictions be added that the rule of minimum ratios of women and men does not prevent the appointment and order of individuals with the registration of neutral sex into committees, councils and government of the government. The majority agree with the view that the expression can be changed in each 2nd language, 1,◯4. par. the bill, so that instead of the words "genders of a kind, " the men and the women will be there. The majority also points out that the above - mentioned wording, the'soft type', is consistent with the requirements of the current law that makes business a responsibility to ensure that the proportion of each member of the management board is at least 40% for more than three executives, as per 1 mg. Twenty-seven. Act on partnerships, 1st. Thirty-nine. Act on private partnerships, 1.mg. Sixty-three. Act on partnerships and 13th stragglers. Law of partner enterprises. The majority thus encourages the Ministry to review the laws of the law that require the proportions of each member of the board and that the wording of the laws, including, will be updated. taking into account the laws on sexual autonomy which allow individuals to register their sex as neutral. If the bill is approved, it will be permitted to use certain societies of the day if they do not ensure an increase in minimum percentage of men and women in the management board, as shown in the 1st case in 1st.4. par. The bill. The aim of day - to - day work is to force the enterprises that depend on the regulations to ensure that both female and male ratios in governments are at least 40%. In the treatment of the case before the committee, it was stated that it would be important to make a clear decision regarding day - to - day application to be considered on the scope of the union's activities and effectiveness. In this context, it was noted that if the bill approved, the day's pay will include partners who usually work more than 50 employees on a yearly basis. It is clear, then, that regulations on day - to - day living will not include partners with less activity. The IRS pointed out that by the law on registration of the real owner, No. 82/2019, the enterprise file law was modified, including in that it now has legal authority to use a day's fine if requests are not provided for any information or reimbursement requirements are not submitted within the right time period. It is also pointed out that there is an urgent need for doubt as to when, how, and under what circumstances to do with day - to - day matters. It is important that there is general harmony and the pressures of the day done in the bill. The icicle suggests that the stress and implementation of a day's fine will be considered to them the rules on a company file involving pressures and activities of day-care. At the same time, the amount of money that varies from day to day is considered to be particularly wrong, according to a figure of 1,◯4. par. it's the bill and the rules of a company file law. The majority agree with that viewpoint and suggest appropriate changes in the subject of the bill, but they do not feel that the amount of day's pay will be adjusted to increase from the maximum budget submitted. The majority of this calls attention to the fact that with the bill it is suggested that there be a law against the particular practices of partners. The greater part points to the need to make clear that the source of daily stress is entrusted to the head of the tax. A decision on day - to - day stress is a decision made by the administration and the importance of keeping track of administrative laws in all court treatments. A greater proportion of credits also need to be moderate in stress of day's fines and in making a decision that will take into account the amount of money. the business and financial strengths of the individual. In this respect, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the above changes. Hv. Congress members of Ásmundur Friðriksson, Haraldur Benediktsson and Njáll Friðbertsson are signing this information in advance. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson was away from the case, but he signed this opinion in accordance with Numbers. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. Besides, they're signing what they think. Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Elíasdóttir Frinífjörg Elisdóttir and Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir. I would like to state that the Shippings of this committee are calling the matter into a job committee between the 2nd and 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u48	V.E.G. President. I notice that the report on this bill refers to Norway and talked about results that were achieved by the equation of the sex ratios in corporate governments and that the results in this country were not the same. I want to ask you why. Senator: Wasn't this completely different from the law in Iceland and Norway? If I recall correctly, the legislation in Norway was merely taken to public stocks that were registered to the market but the legislation here includes all partners with more than 50 employees. That's what I'm talking about. A senator knows how the sensory ratio is in the management of public parts of the world that are listed on the market here? Isn't that just the same thing in Norway? I think they're comparing apples and oranges over there. In fact, it is not honest to have this in this way because the legislation is different in this regard, it goes much further than in Norway for this sort of intervention, into the possession rights, and I don't know that there is any other law in this particular area in free countries where the right of possession is respected to someone.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I don't have that information on how it's being handled by a company in a public market. But I only have a memo from the Department of Employment on how this is worked out based on the 2018 annual account of the existing companies. It is replaced by the number of directors. Accordingly, 66 societies of 394 do not meet laws on gender proportions. However, similar data are not available in 2017 and in 2019 C.E. As mentioned earlier, it must be kept in mind that society's administration must be determined by the sex ratio law, about 40% ratio, while 66 societies of 394 fail to meet these criteria. But I don't have that information as good as any. A senator may be able to approach them, but I don't have them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u50	V.E.G. President. I believe that there is good reason for taking this matter back into the discussion committee because there are clearly different things and that humans do not have clear information about how this is today. I'm really worried about this. Of course, it's not about the bill in itself. It's about the law as crazy as it really is. I notice in the report that it says, with permission from the president: Although there is a significant intervention, transporters feel the need to take such measures to ensure that gender proportions in co-workers [...] achieve their objective. At the same time, the legislator is permitted, despite the Constitution's property rights, to set the freedom of action required for normal and objective reasons. The Constitution does not say anything about normal and objective reasons. It must be public need, public interest, in order to reduce property rights in this way. [[The president calls.]] There are always issues we can find.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u51	A respectable president. The gender's equal rights are necessary for all of us and are necessary, even in companies, whether by the rules or by the laws of this country. As I said, there is information on the 2018 annual accounts over 50 years of work. There were 394 of them, of whom there are only 66 organizations that fulfill those laws. So the facts are available and the need to improve in these matters is truly available.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u52	A respectable president. I'm wondering what's going on here. A senator who covered merely the matter. I can see it immediately, and I'm surprised that I didn't find out about the Association of Professionals. I'm asking if I'm right about this. There may be some miscalculation on the II Parliamentis website, but if I understand that correctly, there has not been a review of the Association of Employment, which I would have thought would be necessary in this case as it concerns all companies. So I'm asking if I'm right and if it hasn't been, why not, and if it's not a reason to take over the employment organization, it's said in the case of an authority that the case is called back to a committee between 2 and 3. and I'm especially happy for it. Also, I would like to ask about food on the financial consequences of this bill. Clearly, an authority has figures over how many companies meet these responsibilities, and that is why I would have thought it was a small task. However, for the council to learn how much fine this may be. Here it is recommended that days be made from 10,000 k. ... toa hundred00,000K. So, these are fines a day. In view of the available figures, it would have been informative to know how this would work, in view of the strengths of an enterprise as outlined in the bill to take into account. Perhaps an authority can answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u53	A respectable president. It is true that during the fall of this case, there was no request for information from the Labour Association, it may have been someone who had been handmade, but this case has been before on the program, and then they requested a review from the Association of Professionals. However, for the committee, representatives from the Women's Association came into the business, not from the professional organization at this time. In fact, I have to admit that I do not remember the exact moment that this matter was scheduled for the previous council whether they had sent in a review or were guests. In terms of financial gain, I think the cost of this, if this worked out, would soon be recovered if cohesion was achieved. I don't have any information on a direct financial advantage in numbers of this bill. But surely I think that it will always be good if this law was to be met. It is such an emergency to use this method, since it does not seem that previous indications and laws are respected to this extent.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u54	A respectable president. According to one authority, it is clear that laws are not being fulfilled as they have become with this gender - exchange obligation. Then the goal is to ask him why. One authority to see if there has been some investigation in the treatment of this matter, why it is now, why it is the failure of an enterprise to meet it, and whether it might have been that way, there is some possibility that not all companies are able to fulfill it, because they simply can't. Could it be possible? Or does the layman think that it's all a conspiracy against women and men like to have women in the governments of these companies? Is it not possible for some companies to find it more impossible for them to do this? [[The president calls.]] Hence, when the law was first given, it was decided not to have a legal penalty.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u55	A respectable president. I think I just turn this question around and say, "Why on earth have companies not been able to fulfill these responsibilities? You see, that's how it is, and I always think it's something special. I remember when Iceland's Farm Association celebrated her 150th birthday when the first woman was in charge. Then it was claimed that in the 150 - year history of Iceland's Farm Society, a capable woman had never been found to be in charge. We're still in this place a little bit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u56	Mr. President. Of course, I have a lot of questions. this committee's opinion. If I go over the law of 63rd degree. partner-shaped and 39th par. the set of private partner regulations for equal positions of sex in partner enterprises, as appropriate. But for 152 st. the section of your partner's law is a law as follows: ▪ Presently, founders, managers, managers, accountants, accountants, or branch managers of a foreign community and other duties under the law of these, social releases, or conclusions of shareholders, and may be invited by a partner to provide a certain day's fine, or week's fine, due to a duty. Within one month of its release, a legal decision may be made under courts. This includes: of regulations 63rd par. partner-shaped and 39th par. A private partner. 156th. the part of your partner code tells you: A person who neglects a report of his partner file (s) - notifications must be in accordance with the laws such as the dog. A senator knows -- ▪ According to these laws, fines or prisons shall be brought up to one year. Now I'm asking why. Parliamentary: The number of carriers and operators of this bill is really going to suggest that in addition to one year's imprisonment may also come in daylight, up to 700,000 dollars. every week for these fractures? [[The president calls.]] And then I ask, " Count out why." A senator that will be successful?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u57	A respectable president. These laws have been valid for some time, and no one has been in charge of these regulations, although there is such a low proportion, so I don't fear them. It will only be moderate, as the committee's opinion says: The more part also has the right to take into account the average amount of day's stress and the decision of funds that will be taken into account. the business and financial strengths of the party They'll be moderate. I have no doubt that this will be the same as the law now. Since it hasn't come about that someone's been locked up and knocked up on the rye bread and water, I don't think this will be overdramatic in this relationship, even if it's just a thing that needs to be done by law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u58	Mr. President. I'm not sure what. A senator has known about this law in partnership law and the laws on private partnerships. It is authorized to use fines or as long as one year's imprisonment for failing to comply with these laws, but let them compromise. But the fines, the day tickets that are supposed to be up to 100,000 dollars. Every day, go for financial strength. There is no experiment, either in the bill of a paper or the local committee party, to define what is financial strength. And it is surprising that a body of Congress is going to set up a legal arrangement that is impregnable because it is quite clear that financial strength is defined according to sectoral status. One enterprise can be considered financially strong if it were for example. with trade activities, but if it were in fishing roads, etc., it would be financially weak. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It must be, at least. President, minimum must be defined at least and offer a legal explanation of what is meant by financial strength. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u59	Hv. Congress officials are asked to respect the narrow time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u60	A respectable president. It is spoken of as being moderate. If there's not enough light in the previous law on the guilt laws and other things - I have not necessarily answered if there was any analysis of the individual's strengths. No, it's missing, as can be read in the Committee opinion, and I don't know exactly if such a diagnosis can be made to make it sound. At any rate, we take this into the committee between the 2nd and the 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u61	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Committee's opinion of my work committee on the bill of changing the law on partnerships, private partnership laws, social legislation and social legislation. It's about penalties because of the ratio of sex in a government known to man. I'd like to begin by saying that for the aim of achieving the equality of men and women, there is no difference on the part of us transporters of this minority opinion, for the equality of men and women among the baseline Icelandic society. However, the smaller part has a question mark on whether the recommended method of this bill, i.e. very burdensome day tickets that can study 3 billion. K. 36 million per month. K. This year, when rounding numbers are used, it is desirable to work for that goal and, a respectable president, to meet standards of moderate honor. The lesser part, which is made up of those that stand here. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson, posted two questions on the bill entitled Stefánsson, professor and professor of social rights. First, the lesser part asked how far the government is permitted to walk in the light of basics in the social rights and after the experiences of property rights, including for the free treatment of people's possessions, with a requirement for employment companies to achieve social goals by means of financial pressure measures such as daylight, as laid down in the bill. The committee received an answer from StefánMár the son of Stefánsson, in a letter that, unfortunately, did not enter as a review, but, rather, as a letter, may not be written. In Stefán Már answer, the president's permission showed the following questions regarding how far the state power can go on the basis of basic principles in social rights and property rights to reach social goals in such measures: It should be kept in mind that the social freedom and the following occurrences of their property rights protected by the Constitution's terms on various aspects of the government, including the legislature, scr. Also, Article 11. MSE. For this reason, the principle is that corporations control their own affairs as well as those of their owners. This right, however, can be impaired if such impairments are supported by grammatical views, including average - scale views. That would be, for example. It is a conflicting view to try by sentence to match the proportions between men and women in some associates. - Some, says there. - It'll be moderate, though. It means looking for ways that will impair the minimum rightness of partners to control their own concerns and possessions, but it can still result in the loss of reaching the target. If you are a member of a country or a community, there are far more available sources of authority in order to establish laws of the above kind. I call attention to these words in the letter of Professor Stefán Már: ◯Sé to discuss business owned by a state or community member, since here is a law teacher in the room, it is natural nearer to imagine that other societies not owned by a state or a community member, i.e. Societys of the kind discussed here on, partners, partnerships, private partnerships and communities. Stefán continues: Thus, a preexisting bill could be compatible with such associates. - That. Friends owned by a state or by a community. However, in private companies, there is more to it than that. In any case, that law would have to be clear and predictable. This means that forced policy will be used unless the legal rights are considered to be sufficiently clear and to take care of potential exceptions that need to be clear as well. Similarly, there must be evidence (e.g. in the legal expositing data) that less efficient measures were not available to meet the gender ratio target in governments. This was about the first question we asked in the less part of the employment committee. Second, the smaller section asked what sort of case action should be carried out in the field of government that would be entrusted with power to employ burdensome measures as recommended in the bill for a protocol, a moderate, protest rights, government information, etc. and what viewpoints on flexibility in the light of different circumstances might be appropriate. Stefán's response showed that the answer was primarily dependent on the authority. If it were an open source, it would be safer to be careful and not use a warrant unless there was a relatively obvious neglect. In partnerships and private partnerships it could easily be a case where a society could not guarantee equal gender status. It should, e.g. Append to a ratio election. In such a situation, it would hardly be advisable to make a date. It would also be necessary to observe all administrative regulations and in this regard to the position of the administrative authority that lays a date and allows such decisions to be reported to a higher administrative level. There we have it, Mr. President. These are the answers in this matter. The smaller part counts in front of the list, i.e. The answers of Professor Stefán's Már Stefánsson's prayer give reason to make changes in the bill so that flexibility will be increased and that there will be more moderation in the operation of the government on the affairs of employment companies. The smaller part considers it necessary for a member whose day is determined to be clear enough to review such a decision at the level of government, to be largely different from the cost and effort required to determine whether or whether a decision is filed by a higher government or to be judged. At the end of the hearing, it says: The lesser part counts from the above because the case is not ready to be taken care of. It must be referred back to the Committee for further discussion between 2 and 3. that the details considered to be available will be taken into account. In his speech, the leading director described the situation as being reassigned to a professional committee, which, of course, requires that we discuss the matter much more closely than we have had opportunity to do. Mr. President. I'm just gonna do a little talking about what's going on in the bill. It acknowledges that this is a significant intervention, as is said by the president's permission: Despite a significant intervention, transporters feel the need to take care of such measures - as in this case, this day's fine - ◯ for the definition of gender ratios in partners, private partner, partner and partner partners to achieve their goal. At the same time, the legislator is allowed to express the opinion of the shipping people - ◯ despite the ownership of the Constitution's legal rights, to set the right to action required for normal and objective reasons. This is a natural opinion and attitude that people are free to have, but it is a very serious question, as shown here in the answers, including the above. ... ina matterwhat. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, whether this is indeed the legal law of the Constitution. I'm going to allow myself, Mr. President, to express a certain doubt in this matter. More part - than - time committees make up a new proposal, which states that a greater proportion need to make clear that the daily stress of the day is hidden from the governor's tax. It also says that it is important to be moderate in the stress of day's fines and in making a decision that includes the use of money. the business and financial strengths of the individual. I must ask, Mr. President, in spite of these words on a moderate measure by the majority of the committees, where can it be found in this case? Where's the moderate? As an example, in making changes in the majority of the money, the day's fines to be determined by the decision of the governor of the tax. So says, with President's permission: Since a society does not want to make a decision according to a law, it can appeal a case to her invalidation in court. Mr. President. There is an absolutely solid hold here that a society has no chance of suing a governor's order to a higher administrative level. Rather, it is the option of alone to file a case with the effort and cost it comes, of course. Where's the moderate in this, Mr. President? In addition, a new proposal states that despite an invalidation of the decision made by the taxpayer, the person will continue to be committed. In this regard, there is no question about the fact that the once-a-day lawsuit every court effect and crime will fail as long as a court decision is passed on to the governor's decision. It goes on to say that unless a government taxpayer agrees to reduce or subjugation with a ruling, unimpressed day's gain will not go down. Where's the moderate over there? Decisions on day - to - day fines, says the change in the majority of the objects, are planned. Where is the moderate in this? There's a lot to look at. We can only start with the fact that there is no charges at the administrative level. Mr. President. In terms of the smaller parts, they are moderate, actually, in the opinion of the greater part, but they just don't seem to be found, in spite of searching. I'll give you a few examples here. The legislation covers all enterprises of the type to be covered, i.e. All partners, all private partners, all partner members and all partner enterprises. There are no exceptions, no flexibility. Is there something moderate in nature? Mr. President. The financial value of this day's fine is expressed as up to a hundred thousand dollars. daily. There's been a word here for a second. A senator as 700,000. every week. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson used a different reference, 3 million. K. in a month, and if we multiply it by 12, we are up to 36 million a year. There's no small amount of money. This is true, Mr. President, for all societies and there is no flexibility and no other authority and nothing. In no way has it been demonstrated in the vehicle case that the results cannot be achieved, or the target for which the bill is headed, by more conservative measures, is less effective. This has not been demonstrated. It has not even been established, as shown in the preceding discussion, that, when it comes to, we say the percentage of gender in governments, let's say to the registered stock market, that there has been a first study of the country, and in another place, nothing has been shown reasonably compared to the same percentages in countries we would like to compare ourselves to. Mr. President. This bill is, to say the least, not ready to be decommissioned. First of all, there are large problems with the reasons I've mentioned here, and there is a lack of flexibility, all extradestities, and also a lack of definition of the criteria for operating costs and about the activities and financial strengths of the individual, that the stress of the day's fines should be influenced. But there has been no record of its sizes and how they should be treated. There is, in fact, a much greater diagnosis and observation of this case, meditation, thought, apart from that, Mr. President, who is most desperate, that is moderate, because there is nothing to be found in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u62	President. As we may have seen, I'm not particularly attracted to this bill. Hv. A senator sat on this committee when the case was addressed, and sits, and I notice that there is some progress in Norway as well as in Iceland. Did any information on how the rules are in Norway and how they are in Iceland, about this obligation? Was it carefully reviewed? Did the nature of this intervention have to do with the rights and the right to work? Did political philosophers get to the committee? What discussion took place? What reviews were received? Were they asked for information from the work community? Or did it just somehow whistle all through on the basis of some political objective? Was it not a matter of great importance to use pressure, pressure from the government, pressure to get some political goal? This is unusual. I don't care if these goals are considered important or valid. There is once such laws in the constitution that we are always trying to apply, and it seems to have somehow slipped through the committee without a thorough review.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is not likely to report that the discussion on the case at the Committee has been the least too extensive and has turned to other factors, as may be shown in the changes in the parts that discuss the changes in word and language, in line with what is now being practiced in those areas. But I have to say, the matter has passed through the committee in that way so that, on the part of the minority part, it has been established. This was done by a request to have a legal opinion of the case, which is the questions I discussed in detail, and the answers to Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson. They depend on the harmony between this case and the basics of society's rights and property. Of course, it is the responsibility of transporters to discuss what is stated in the bill on some observations in Norway or Norway. It's not mine or our minor to discuss it. The majority will have to be included, depending on that. It is the entire committee, except for two members of the council who are under this minority party. And I forgot to mention that under the minority body of literature, the one standing here, Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Is remnant, and the sharp one. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u64	V.E.G. President. I have to say for my part that I'm very concerned about this kind of treatment. I feel that people approach the rights of possession and freedom with great ease and intend to achieve their political goals, which are, of course, considered to be economic practical, good and good, or national, but is only political, by the use of the pressures and punishments of the State. I could understand a bill of inquisitors for those companies who would have balanced their gender ratios in control. It's a little different than using the penalty weather. When you look at a paper with the bill, it is not to see anything proper in the report that this discussion was taken, that political law experts viewed it as a natural development to use the government in this way to achieve its goals. I also wondered: " Was there no discussion in the Committee on what is involved in the concept of equality, as defined in a constitution? Is equality really that in a government there are equal numbers of either sex, in this country at present. becoming sexless? Is it really so that the 90th rule points to equal numbers of each sex in a place? Not that humans have the right thing? I don't understand it anymore, and to my mind this law in the constitution is to become completely meaningless, to be honest.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u65	Mr. President. I couldn't hear you. A senator later directed a question to me in answer to me. [[Up front.]] I don't think there's any difference between us in this matter. In my speech, I stressed what is said on the part of the greater part, or rather, to those who recognize a significant intervention, I drew special attention to it. I also noted that it describes the views of the carriers, that it is unconvincing, and that it has no evidence, no more than Norway's data. To deal with this, we captured members of the Central Party on the Committee, me and the other. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson, to ask questions about basics. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son puts so much emphasis on this. He spoke most of his property rights, and we did. But we also emphasized basic principles in communal rights and, thirdly, the basic principles in the administrative rights because we specifically discussed the procedure that would have to be taken in the past to be so burdensome measures, as discussed in this case. This is a high - quality day ticket, and it is a means of transportation that places even greater responsibilities on those taking the lead in this regard. I can totally agree with that. A senator that I could wish for it here at the moment. A general assembly would be more frequently discussed in a perfunctory manner.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u66	Mr. President. I'm here going to have a little input of the bill for a song about changing the law on partnerships, the law on private partnerships, the laws on partnerships and the law on partnerships that have been discussed at the time. The job committee and is set up for the 2nd Environment. In a number of ways, this is a precious bill, and I'll find out later in my talk. There is no disagreement that we should seek to secure equality with the sexes on as many fields as possible, and this effort is ongoing, Mr. President. Of course, we support the equality of the sexes to the extent possible. It's made some progress in recent years, and I'd like to be here to refer to the information of Iceland's Women's Rights Association on the bill. It says, by permission of the President: In 2018, women were 28.8% of the executives in companies with 50-999 employees, and nearly 30% - ◯36.4% in firms with a total of 100- servant249 and 39.4% in companies with 250 or more employees. It's right to the boundaries set in these laws, just the right to them. It's almost caught. And these are two-year-old numbers. Maybe the numbers are better today. We're dealing with laws where this is to be forced in the form of the bill. How far can we go? Governments provide various laws to achieve their social goals and to achieve political policies. Yet, they are tailored to a substance that is often somewhat stretched and pulled, especially during the past few years. Regarding this bill, it would be considered mainly on the Constitution's special rights, which would limit governments to how far they can go in compromising human rights. There is no doubt that this limit is much lower in terms of a government or government enterprise or of its institutions or organizations that most or all of their income is derived from public funds. It is less certain that there the Kingdom power can go forth in a strong way, setting certain measures to serve various social and even political goals. Mr. President. It is also likely that the government could go further in these areas in the case of public societies on the market, which operate in a sheltered market protected by widespread government legislation and are subject to official surveillance on a far greater scale than other private organisations. The bill is the least of these listed enterprises or institutions of the state. Rather, it involves the management of all partners, partners, private partners, and partner partners, having at least one partner. five human control and above 50 staff should have a specific gender ratio, i.e. not less than 40% of the rulers are of the second sex. Finally, in my opinion, what is of utmost importance is a date if the law is not followed, from 10,000 to 100,000 a day. Mr. President. What's going on here? It's got a lot of stuff going on. The work committee is fully aware of what is going on here? I'm next to think they just haven't figured it out. The majority of the committee, seven members of all categories, even three o'clock. Iceland's Independence Party members sign this bill after discussing it on the committee and although it has a happily two-year-old. The members of the Middle East who have tried to straighten out the course of these materials, such as their opinion, give clear evidence of the right course because this bill is going beyond the limit in cutting down the rights and rights of men with money or possessions in some form of association. They are brought into the situation that they are not entirely wise about who or who they choose in the management of that group. So they simply do not control themselves. They need to take into account factors presented in this bill. Mr. President, I believe we're very close to our property rights. We're talking about a decoding strategy. Those governments who are to supervise these associates, in their own fields, are empowered to force them into doing so by making a day - to - day act on the budget. And they are not inferior, up to 100,000 a day or 3 million a month while they disagree. Let's just take a little closer to this warrant for a day's fine, Mr. President. This bill for changing the law contains no law code on how to handle it, i.e. When the government lays a day's end; where to charge, who to charge, who to charge, who to charge, and so on. It is likely to be considered, should be, in effect, to the general regulations of the administrative law in this respect. There's a lot of things I'd like to point out that we could possibly install. Of course, if one is going to go that way, there is a lack of evidence that it is fully justified with those associates, e.g. Regarding the general rule of the administrative law not to charge justice. Is it normal, Mr. President, in the case of a group of property rights, to have someone named in town or governmental authority in town on so high a day's fines? And they keep tickling and company dear, but then the government can go on a mission that is permitted there. There's a direct clearance. In fact, governments are given this sought - out economy that all creditors dream of, being able to go right to a mission. They don't have to look any further than just go straight and ensure their demands in the company. Dearly, this action will not be delayed. Because of the toughness of the ownership of the bill, I miss it there, for example. nothing about the specific procedure for this, about charges, and that this direct access warrant is issued. I make comments about the amount of fines I feel are too high. It is soon to come to a high level when the source is so vast. I also ask, Mr. President, if it is not possible to achieve a more positive approach to the national goal of a more comparable gender ratio in governments than might be desired in Polish. I see that this was in the committee's opinion that it was in the law for some time and a little luck. However, it seems to me that the proportion of smaller species in these governments has arrived in a third and even up to 40% in many cases. So there's some success now. But it's a matter of positive motivations, e.g. In the matter of certification, equality, and equality, or anything like that, but to walk all this way. I don't know exactly what you're going through when they move on like this. The members of all committee classes, except members of the Central Party, jump at this chariot lightly, as the discussion has shown today. As noted earlier, people did not appear to have looked to other countries, not even in the way they were there. So I really want to appeal to my work on this case and to overforcate and make haste. Of course, the principle is that free societies and especially those on which they place their money should control their own affairs, to the extent that they do not conflict with national law. It is similar with the right of property, those who decide to buy stock, of course, should decide for themselves what to do with it, whether to buy or to sell and whom to choose in charge. This can be particularly negative, Mr. President, when you may be a shareholder in a partner with someone and you're supposed to choose your man on board, and you're about to get a member of the board. They say, "No, no, you can't choose these because we have to fill them with sexuality. " Is this all right, Mr. President? It can be a very difficult situation, e.g. In terms of percentage votes in partners. The men may have chosen two, three directors. Then there are those who have yet to choose the second sex. Their candidate, perhaps an experienced man who has been in charge for a long time, now or a woman, will not find that because there is a need for sexuality. Or do they have to negotiate before who is to choose who? It's just that the right of property is being handled in a very harsh way. It is not as if a smaller part of the employment committee slept on the watch. They Már given legal Stefánsson to answer a few questions, first of all, a question of how far to go and when to exceed the limits of the Constitution in defense of human rights. I'm going to read from the minority opinion about the professor's answer, with the permission of a president: It should be kept in mind that the social freedom and the following occurrences of their property rights protected by the Constitution's terms on various aspects of the government, including the Lawgiver. For this reason, the principle is that corporations control their own affairs as well as those of their owners. This right, however, can be impaired if such impairments are supported by grammatical views, including average - scale views. That would be, for example. It is a perfunctory view to try by sentence to match the proportions between men and women in some companions' governments. A moderate degree, though, must be taken into consideration. It means looking for ways that will impair the minimum rightness of partners to control their own concerns and possessions, but it can still result in the loss of reaching the target. In the case of any member of a state or community, there are far more sources of authority in order to establish laws of the above kind. Thus, a existing bill may be compatible with such associates. What's the professor saying there, Mr. President? He's really crowding it. He's narrowing it down. He is pointing out that such laws were natural to pass on certain societies. He named it a member of state and/or rural society, etc. He's really crowding it. But in private companies, there is more doubt. In any case, that law would have to be clear and predictable. This means that forced policy will be used unless the legal rights are considered to be sufficiently clear and to take care of potential exceptions that need to be clear as well. Similarly, there should be evidence to support this, e.g. in the legal expositing data, that less measures were not sufficient to achieve the level of gender within the controls. Mr. President. Már Stefánsson was also asked about the requirements for judicial action. I'm going to read that part of the answer here, by permission of the president: In Stefán's reply, the answer was found to depend primarily on the authority. If it were an open source, it would be safer to be careful and not use a warrant unless there was a relatively obvious neglect. In partnerships and private partnerships it could easily be a case where a society could not guarantee equal gender status. It should, e.g. Append to a ratio election. In such a situation, it would hardly be advisable to make a date. Mr. President. Who will tell the government that the guilt is now not advisable, that these laws are being violated. That is hardly advisable in this case. Who's going to make this suggestion? The one who charges? And the day's fines keep tickling. By permission of the President: It would also be appropriate to consider the position of the government in which day - to - day fines and the possibility of filing such decisions to a vast administrative level would be considered. So many words, Mr. President. For the last one, i.e. how this should be done by the government and how the setting should be done will be far short of what is being seen in the text of the bill that is already under discussion by the President of the IRS: ▪ The head of the state is so urgent that there is no doubt about when, how, and under what circumstances to do with day - to - day fines. Is it here in this bill? No, it's not here. There are no warnings. If they choose a government that doesn't have this ratio and they don't reach this limit, then it's a day's fine. Then comes the government to set aside a day's fine, and the cart goes on its way. We accept some sort of lawsuit or procedure to collect tickets while the percentage is not fixed. That is no exception. If that's true, please tell me. Could the government simply say that in this case it is better not to do anything? Is it? Is there any exception to these requirements? I don't think so. The government, Mr. President, is there gathering to the human rights of property and at the same time restricting our freedom of society. I want to finally read the bottom line of the committee's opinion and to reiterate my opinion as reflected in it: The second section counts from the above because the matter is not ready to be taken care of. If necessary, I will accept it. paritaprevir Empress the Brynjar of Níelsson - that the case should be referred back to the Committee for further discussion after the 2nd. about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u67	V.E.G. President. I felt that I had to respond because of it. A senator used the word "University Party of Iceland. " I'm very happy to be in Iceland's Independence party. I'd like to thank the members of the Central Party, we can call him the Central Class of Iceland, for a limited performance in this discussion. I agree mostly with what. A senator, but I am merely wondering the definition of the concept of equality. Now there is an equal rule in the constitution, and we can have some political objective of having the sex ratio evenly in every place, no matter where the sexes occur. But keep that in mind. What about the concept of equality? We're always entitled to something. There must be no gender difference. But does the concept of equality mean that there are others of the opposite sex who have the right to be elected by each side of the election? I think that this term has been completely silenced by men, and so far, not just in this discussion, but in many others. It seems that there must be equal numbers of either sex or of all genders everywhere. Because I know why. A senator learned law, how does he understand the concept of equality or equality in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson for this answer. Sometimes you can be really grateful for the Iceland Constitution. This is one of the things in which you thank her presence and can refer to her when there is much need and when you think that you are going a bit on the ice, like specifically in this case, when men slip badly on the ice, in my opinion, and go very far into the rights of men to achieve some political objective, such as the noble goal of trying to achieve more equality between the two sexes. Then they go on and on. They can't be seen in the road. You're blind. You're blind. You're going through everything. Then comes the time for them to hit a wall. I believe there is now some kind of wall at hand. People have gone too far. So they're going to break back that man's ownership rights to continue this goal. I read the review of Iceland's Women's Rights Association and I seem to have made a lot of money. This is more than one third in most of these big boys and up to 40% in the largest, so it's clearly achieved a lot. The equal struggle. Hv. A senator now asked mostly about it. I guess I'll have to try to answer that in my next answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u69	V.E.G. President. You see, there's something important we're dealing with. You may realize that the Constitution is viewed by politicians today, so, yes, it is good to have a special right, and it is good to have a law of professional rights, but if there is a political share for something that can be turned aside from these regulations. Here, the political objective is to match the gender ratio in the management board. The Constitution just says, "Hey, it's forbidden to compromise this ownership policy unless the public need is due. " Of course, there is no public need that requires that there be as many of each sex in the governments. It's just a goal. That can be a good goal. That may be a reasonable goal, at least in certain cases. But because of him. A senator said that it was important that we have a constitution, so when governments handle it this way, is it worth something? The principles that we at Iceland's Independence Party consider the most important principles, such as the ownership rights, are very meaningless if we believe we can deviate from the rights of property with some of these political objectives. I just wanted to see what it was. A senator would agree with me on this, that we've actually diluted these provisions because we're so noble, we're doing so good, and we're doing so wisely. Then terms such as public need and public interest are just empty words. That's what I'm talking about. A senator would not agree?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator once again for his questions. I use the term "University Party of Iceland." I've done it maybe once before, I've used it very often when I'm surprised at that party. [[Up front.]] Well, then I'll use it, then I'm very surprised. I think I clearly explained in my speech earlier that I read - at the job committee, at least in this opinion, there were three names. Councilmen of this category. As a sign of how surprised I was that they had made this work this way unchanged and are there on the opinion, indeed, one or even more in advance, I now used this name, but it's called something other than that, this more respectable party. Hv. A senator also mentioned whether the Constitution was worth anything today. Yeah, I think so. It is also worth what it is in our minds, the way we talk about it, the way we associate with it, as a discussion on this subject proves. As far as I could see, men came up here, though quite many in this matter, pointing out what I have also been pointing to, and this shows that the Constitution is not forgotten. If we feel that it is tilted, we will honor it. Is there no real rights today? I'm pretty much at odds with what. A senator says that this is not just a bill, but often, often. I think there's time to slow down that road, and there's also a need to get up against it. Hv. A senator is now known to stand on his feet when it comes to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u71	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. I can agree with most of what he said. Since his criticism was directed against me and my associates in Iceland's Independence Party, I would like to ask him if he disagrees with his Central Party members. A professional health committee. They do not violate the bill as such in this committee. But, hey. A senator thus speaks that it can only be understood that he will vote against the bill and that we will be in union with him. According to the committee opinion, the minority considers the above to be a reason to make changes in the bill so that the flexibility will be increased, etc. There's already been a Central Party of Iceland, at least A representative of the Central Party at what moment. The employment committee, in effect, agrees with the bill presented here but wants to make certain adjustments so that it can be completed, thus suggesting that it be referred to by the Committee between 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u72	Mr. President. I think we're one of Iceland's Central Party on this matter. We are not ready to accept its payment in the manner mentioned here. That quote right there. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son in the opinion of my committee only testifies to the wording, that there is hope that the case will be corrected between 2 and 3. Um., as repeated wishes have shown, i.e. that they may be referred again to the committee and there they will be. I am confident that the President will grant them his wishes. Although that is what I'm saying, we're in the Central United States completely in agreement with our goals. We agree that there is more equality in the governments, but we just don't agree that this is the way it is done, that it is done, that I have done very much in my speech; we don't agree that this is how it is done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u73	Mr. President. I'm not sure I understand what you're saying. A senator, perfectly. Either the senator stands against the bill or favors the committee's section of the trade committee that is signed by his colleagues on a professional committee, his middle-class members, to make certain adjustments and refinements on the bill presented here. I repeat, my question is why. A senator who follows the payment of this bill, as certain adjustments will be made? It means that daylight will be used, but it is a question of how it will be carried out. I heard why. However, a member of the body strongly opposes it in his witnessing talk. I think it's all right, Mr. President, that the Senator just gives me a straight answer. Will he vote in the same way as I do, i.e. against the bill I don't think it's possible to fix, or is he going to accompany his Iceland's middle-class partners and fix the bill and then vote for it? It's a rather simple question, and it would be nice to get an answer, and the answer is just one word.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u74	Mr. President. My answer is, yes, I will vote against the bill in this picture. I thought my speech made sense that I am adamantly opposed to this kind of forcedness of action on the basis that is involved, which I discussed in detail. I'm against this. I'm not against equality at all. I'm in a positive way, as I said, I'll have to try to move things for the better, without punishing men, without the benefit of day. Iceland's Central Party, I think I can assure you what. A senator in charge of this, stands shoulder to shoulder in unity. On the other hand, we hope that the bill will be brought to a better conclusion in the administration of the Committee and men will see themselves, and I have some hopes to do so after listening to several of Iceland's Independence Party here on answers and in speeches. I have strong opposition to the bill in this picture, and that is also true of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u75	V.E.G. President. I'm really thinking about it. Yet I think much more that such a law has been placed in the law at the time. Then I wasn't there to fight this thing, and I'm worried about what the Parliaments in general, and maybe the public too, I don't know, are willing to go far against the basic rights laws of the Constitution in order to achieve some political objective. Such goals can be good, reasonable, even enjoyable, but we cannot do anything. This requires the constitution to set the Lawgiver's boundaries on the basis of achieving its political goals. To me, it's a law that protects the right of possession most important in the constitution. The reason why I believe it is more important than most of the other regulations is that it is essential for society's progress, for the well - being, for the purpose of working. I feel, as the other part says, in a paper with the bill, that this is a significant intervention. Then, of course, there is nothing more to be discussed. Clearly, there has been no discussion on whether such legislation, such as the rest of the legislation, involves the obligation of owners to select people in this way, is too much intervention, and is actually a constitution. I miss it so much. I've said many times, and I stand by, that I feel that people go way too far when they measure what their public needs are or public interest, I don't talk about rich public interests, that they can be replaced by some political thing at one time or another because they think it's desirable, good and reasonable. Of course, in that case, such provisions are losing all their meaning. We might as well let them go if we can each time, on the basis of some political factor, turn them aside. I'm really thinking about it because it's going an unusually long way. There is, of course, a much larger discussion, Mr. President, and just a discussion of respect for the Constitution in general. But that may not be the time now. There are other things that bother me with this bill if we give up this discussion. The report, to justify this change, this addition to the law, this penal code, refers to the law in Norway that people forget to mention being completely different from the law here. If this is exactly what I remember, the law on equal sex ratios in the enterprises is only to the public parts of the enterprise that are registered on the market. Of course, we did something else. We applied it to all the companies who had 50 men or more on the payroll. The report then compares the results in Norway and the results in Iceland, saying that this law has been responsible for our failure to achieve the results of Norway. It's just wrong. I think I can absolutely say that today there are women 40% in the management of a partner registered on the market. But here the comparison is made: They have achieved this success in Norway, but we have not had this result, and Norway is claimed to be a direct consequence of the fertilizer and that we have not had the same success because we are somewhere up to 30%. In any case, it's dishonest to do it like this, at worst, just a fake. We may be talking about a society that some individuals establish, saying that three women or three men have a partnership, and that is to be divided. Then the company grows to about 50 employees. All the money and all the property of the three parties, of either kind they are, in the club. They're going to lay everything they've got on this business. So suddenly there's a situation where one of them cannot be in control of such laws, and men refer to equality. To me, this has nothing to do with equality, just nothing. If the sex was divided by the law on the management of partner members, if we said that by law, 70% in control would be male, we could be talking about equality, it would be a violation of the obligation of companies to have more of the sex than the other sex. But it has nothing to do with equality that there are as many of each sex everywhere. That may be the big misunderstanding in all of this equality talk today, it's not about people's rights, it's about some local outcome. I can totally agree that it is a fine goal for the sex ratio to be the most common person in the world. I wouldn't just want to be with guys, it's totally pathetic. But I can't afford it as part of the legislature, with this constitution in my hands, to have an intervention into human rights in this way, to have an obligation of an enterprise to have a certain proportion of either sex, and it has nothing to do with equality. This, of course, is just the problem. But the big problem is, and often in discussions, people forget that there are different genders. Of course, it is not absolute, but their interests differ, just where they want to make a career and what articles. We may be in a position where fewer individuals are taking a split step depending on the type of business involved, on individuals with knowledge and experience in such a operation. Of course, the lawgiver is not listening to it. Of course, it's an ordinary political concept that's all right, it's not a criminal, and all I'm stressing in this regard is that we're not going to the Constitution of human rights, whether it's the right or the other rights in general, unless there are some special public interests behind us, or some public need. Of course, that is not true in this case. It has nothing to do with it. It will not alter anything for the general public in itself the situation in the enterprise regarding the management. This may be a good goal, and I could understand that we would encourage some of the companies, even some of the parties, the Witnesses, and so on. Of course, it may be a business's business to be able to show that they make sure that equal numbers of either sex are in control. I don't talk about the number of people now, that there is even more equality in these matters. It can only be good for business, be businesslike. No, we're not gonna let it go. We are going to use means of forcedness, which only governments have, forced, and punished to achieve some purpose. That thought is just dangerous. We should never achieve political goals by resorting to punishment, I'm not talking about when it matters to the important constitutions of human rights. I find it remarkable that politicians think of it, and I'm very worried about it. It's not just about this thing, it's about so many other things. This trend is immediate; it is not surprising to use the force of pressure that the State alone has to achieve such goals. I think there's a good reason for us to stop and wonder why this is evolution. We're dealing with legislation. We are actually adding a penalty against these laws and adding on the regulations that no other Western country has in its law, no one. Why would that be? Why do no Western, democratic state have such laws as ours? Of course, that is for a reason. It is because of respect for the rights of property there. They're not political, that they're the best in the world about equality. Nobody's that stupid like us. They use very different methods of equalizing, motivation, certification, etc. Next to us are Norwegians who have this kind of duty, but it's a lot more normal because it's about public stocks on the market. You can understand much more about the regulations or duties of such partners than any member of the general community here, family business, etc. No other nation can think of this, and then we just brag about it instead of being ashamed of ourselves. We are forever chivalrous because we are so diligent in the use of penalties and penalties to achieve political goals. We're completely out of our minds on this as well as on so many other things because we think we're so great. We're so hot, we're so equal, we're really, really, really, really, really, really, really good. We're actually just lame, lummy, like they said back in the day. These goals can be achieved in any other way, and they are on the move. No, we need to be punished. We're gonna have to put somebody in there, make the companies bankrupt with tickets because we're so cool, we're so fair, we're so great. We're kind of idiots, that's just the whole thing. We have so choked with political rights that we have long ceased to breathe. Let's turn this thing around, throw this bill out and say, "Hey, we'll achieve these goals in a whole other way. It's no big deal. They've been on the move. Things have changed. That's a different thought. Okay, that's very nice. But to resort to violence in this way, pressure measures that the state of state alone has, I feel beneath all caves, and I will never for my small life agree with it, no matter how sensible and good I would find the political goals, never. I will never take people's rights of possession in this way because I respect him, even though I feel that people abuse him. It is so important to respect these provisions. I know people do stupid things. It's just like the job freedom of choice. We go very far in limiting it, even because of some moral norms or goals or things that we don't think are good conduct because of human behavior. We always go further and further. This will not even call us human society or human society. We always forget about this because our goals are always so good. V.E.G. President. We just suck like shit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It is clear that today's unhappiness of independence is intense and weigh heavily on humans and adds weight to some humans. Hv. A senator, however, exercises himself in a manly way, while some of the people here have said so. I'm going to let you know that there's not going to be any vagrants or outbacks on the part of your head. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, the son of Curma, is enough to bring it up to us middle-class members, who have breathed on this matter and who have been the only ones who have done such things. Not one of those dog-fuckers will be enough to turn us in that we have the slightest opportunity to support this bill, least. On the contrary, there has been one opposition from the Central Party, and it must be a lot of thought that representatives of all classes are carriers on this bill except the Central Party, and three o'clock. The members of the Independence Party are on the majority view.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u77	V.E.G. President. Well, I don't have an answer. I'll admit, I'm very distressed. I was very distressed to see the independents on that bill. I'm not saying I had a sleepless night, but I'm very distressed. Of course, because our goals are good, we forget about them. They forget about themselves and think, "Well, listen, it's just fine. Yes, yes, we need to have equal gender ratios in control. I'm not sure there's much more to think about. But all those rights we haven't disappeared in one night. These important rights that humans have been struggling to do never disappear in one night, gradually disappear because we always go further and further. It's just one part of it. There are so many other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u78	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. An honest and reasonable reading of the memory of the part cannot lead to any conclusion other than the fact that the members of my body consider this bill to be completely unacceptable. Under no circumstances would it be possible to agree. However, the Independence Party is in the difficulty of being called the burden of politics, stability, vertebrae, and all of this. In the National Conference of Iceland, the Führer of the Independence Party is spoken of. At times, it is said that the national meetings of the party are the personal national meetings in which the nation's affairs are being determined. But now the Independence Party is in the position that it is inserted into this case in which the rights and freedom of society are severely weighed, as it really is. The only group that's complete and complete in this case at the Council is the Central Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u79	V.E.G. President. I am very pleased with the opposition of the Middle Party. I'll take it out. I'd also like to state that the Independence Party is still the spine in Icelandic politics and very important. An independent group is a weak democracy, and it weakens society. Freedom is going somewhere into space. Because I see that the Chairman of Paradise is here, I'm also counting heavily on the restoration of this case. There's not always a reference to calming down there, but I think all civil-minded and liberal and people who care about these regulations object to and contradict this bill. I see three divisions at once in my hand, the Independence Party, the Central Party, and the Upholding. But we'll hear what the head of the reverend says in the counter-sponsor below.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u80	A respectable president. Hv. A senator spoke of freedom. To me, this is very clear. Without equality, there is no freedom and freedom without equal, only some vision. Hv. A senator spoke of political rightness. Yeah, I'm a little tired of the same political correctness that comes here a few times. I'm tired of it because it's always the same senators who jump up and talk about political rights when they talk about equality. To me there is equal justice. It's a bit special that the transporters of this bill are all women, from all categories, including the Independence Party. All women. I'm listening here at the Congress Hall today, all men, only Central and Independence, we can call it Iceland's middle party, Iceland's central private party, protesting the steps we're trying to take in an increase in equality and including increased freedom. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u81	The president asks why. Councilmen showing respect for the speedy deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u82	V.E.G. President. I'm just not sure that the Chairman of the Cradle, huh? paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir understands the concept of equality. Is it equal to the fact that there are so many of the sexes in each place? Is it a huge equality that there are as many male nurses or as many male teachers? No, of course it has nothing to do with equality, that is not equality. This may be a political goal for us. There is no point in talking about freedom without equality. That's not what we're talking about. We're here talking about the rights of people where politicians are going to force punishment to ensure that you give up certain property rights to equalise some sex ratio in control. If they're there in the equal mind, they're out in the field.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u83	A respectable president. In case of a moment. A senator does not realize it when that train is gone; it was taken about seven, eight years ago. This applies to about 50 and more people. We're not talking about small enterprises, medium-sized enterprises, but large companies, with 50 employees or more. Hv. A senator was also very active in contrast with his due wages. What equality has a cause. A senator had a consent? And then he talks about coincidence, and then I agree. A senator says that we are to use the will much rather, much more. But my question to why. What suggestions do we have? A senator is coming in the form of the wills that promote equality, which contributes to the great freedoms of an equal state, including that of the United States. In practice at the labour market? What suggestions do we have? A senator come with you? And I'd like to point out that the Independence Party has been more and less with the 2013 Ministry of finance. [[The president calls.]] What suggestions have the Independence Party provided, in effect, to promote equality? [[The president calls.]] What suggestions?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u84	V.E.G. President. I just want less of it. A senator is supposed to be the one I voted for with the same salary, but with a bad taste in the mouth. It's very good to have a good time. A senator speaks of using alternative techniques. Then we will agree on that. Then let's go together, Independence Party, Expansion, maybe the Central Party, using other methods. Let's vote against this. Let's use some other methods. I'll be in the best order to use other methods to achieve these goals. True, we are on our way to get them, but I'll be having a full share in something more in order to get them. But I'm not going to use men... [[You never take the initiative, never.]] But this, of course, is the point, and the discussion is about: Should we use the criminal effects of the government and its fingers to achieve such goals and go against the rights of possession? [[The president calls.]] It sounds like paradise's going to be there. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The armour of the son of Níelsson for an excellent speech. There were many things that attracted attention to the talk, but what may have reflected especially was an answer. Here at the beginning of the discussion, a chairman of the commission. The Senator corrects me if I'm wrong, I don't remember what term he used at least, but he suggested that it was not being exactly followed and used, if I remember correctly, the concept of comparing the order that is now spoken for and what is being spoken in Norway, which is now used as a special support in this olive language. Watch your step. Even if there is only one minute to distribute, would a senator go to the depth of the matter? It's interesting if you are being treated as a core factor in something that may not be able to resist.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u86	V.E.G. President. True, I did not use the word false. I said, at best, dishonest, at worst, deception, which is the next town's case with fraud. [[Deception.]] This is because different legislation is being compared with evolution, the ratio of gender to control. Norwegians only have this rule of publicisation that's on the market. It is mandatory for equal sex ratio, i.e. not less than 40%. They've got it because it's only on the market, there's nothing else. However, we took a very different course in the law of law seven years ago, walking further. Then there could be three friends or three friends who start a business and it's a long way to be one of the opposite sex in control, and it's claimed that we haven't reached the same percentage as the Norwegians, but it's being compared to different things. [[The president calls.]] I'm convinced that the ratio is 60/40 or approximately in our registered companies on the market.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I think this is definitely over the limit given here, in registered communities. If I remember correctly, the ratio in associates with 250 employees or more is, that's maybe 39.5%, that's about 30 percent. falling into the finish line. But I remember that when we agreed here on a law forbidding a plastic bag not long ago, which was another of the overcoat laws. Then came a skilled penable man who wrote: "Why is it that politicians always succeed in taking all joy out of a positive trend in life? Then there was the view that this significant reduction in plastic sachet usage was to be automatic. The community would have evolved in a way that leads to the finish line. Then the politicians step in and say, " Now I'm going to save the case. ' Aren't we a little in this place on this one?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u88	V.E.G. President. Yes, exactly. We're in this exact place. What worries me is this desperate need for such a government, and no governmental arrangement is confused by it. People just go on and think it's okay because it's such a noble goal. All I'm saying is that when politicians are doing this tour, alarm bells ring all over the place. I can tell you here that nothing happens overnight, but then all of a sudden, we just throw it away. Any special rights, a job law of freedom of speech and freedom of expression - it doesn't matter any more. That's because we're always saving something. It doesn't matter whether it's public or not or it's public interest, we just do what we want. It's only politics today, evil charm.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u89	Mr. President. Thank you for your fine, sharp speech. For a discussion of the matter, we see the tendency to expect us to take sides in matters based on their names or headlines rather than their contents. I say like what? A senator that I don't understand what equality is involved in the state being made up of as many of the sexes in each profession, in each company, in each room. In college, more than two thirds, or about two thirds, I think, and actually that was already the case when I was studying there and now I was never disturbed. But I ask why. A senator, because he's not only a senator but also an expert, a theoretical question; these are questions: Which would be more burdensome, this bill to tell people, that punishment, who may represent its property, or that the University of Iceland should not be more of the second sex on each course, would be forbidden to have more members of the opposite sex than the opposite sex? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u90	V.E.G. President. I'd like to see what the supporters of this bill would say if we brought a bill that would have to be the same number of each sex in college. What would people say? Of course, this is much more burdensome than having access control at a university by sex. Forces and penalties are being used here. The rest is just an access control. And then, of course, colleges have all kinds of access controls depending on the grades and things. But I can assure you that this bill's supporters would view it as a special mission if we insisted that there are as many of each sex in each university department. I'd love to suggest this and see how you react, but this is a good example of how it's just always about some political bitch. [[The president calls.]] They don't care about any constitution, they're all political goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u91	Mr. President. Of course, I'm not talking for college or anyone else from sex, but that's right. One senator says that it would no doubt bring great happiness to those who feel that they are primarily talking for equality, since the debate is about highly reserved factors, such as over and over and over about the sex ratios in corporate governments. You often feel that the position of women other than those who want to be in the company's management will be forgotten in times and fairness may be the result of these stress of modern rights as they think they are. But I ask why. A senator, because he is, as I mentioned earlier, expert. A senator explained to me what is involved in choosing a government in this situation? You see, I don't quite get it. If more people volunteer than those in the government, is it the same as the political mixing list and bringing up some who would no one even want to have in the government? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How does it work?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u92	V.E.G. President. Now there is a lack of expertise. I've always felt like this about the sex ratio of someone who doesn't work, but I'm sure there's some progress on it either in the approval of the partners or that once it's chosen and it doesn't match the law, then it has to be chosen again, maybe over and over until goals are reached. I suppose so. The problem is, of course, that we are going so far. They're just some private partnerships, they're just around certain people, certain families, certain people's interests. Not everything can be in control because the lawgiver has decided something else. This must be some practitional problem, and perhaps that is why people do not get it everywhere. [[The president calls.]] Of course, the big money is just gonna go back and forth until next time, I'm assuming.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u93	Mr. President. We here discuss the bill for the legislation on the change of partnership laws, private partnership laws, partnership laws and social laws, socialisation laws, sex laws due to the percentage of genders in control. I'm on a job board, and I'm in advance of the case in the majority list, along with three other independents. The Committee stated that we would want to do this more and that we would have more information to discuss with the committee. (b) How can we be sure that Jehovah is the Source of his help? Um, it was reported that it would return to a committee between 2 and 3rd. On September 1, 2013, laws in which partners and funds are generally employed and where governments are more than three should be assured that the proportion of each species is not less than 40%. The law applies to all the pensions, partnerships, private partnerships, partnerships, and public societies where more than 50 employees work on a yearly basis. These changes have been welcome, but my concern has been that despite changes in the law and in the number of women in corporate management, this has not been achieved in a higher proportion of women in executive positions in companies. There's a certain concern. For example, there is no lady sitting in the executive position in a registered Icelandic club. I'm not going to talk about the attitudes and expectations of men and women of sexuality in corporate governments. How much I would like to ask: Is new laws necessary? Normally, the bill should not begin until it is considered the need for legislation. Such evaluations include to reveal the consequences of a consented bill. The effects of similar laws have to be attributed to the countries we normally compare ourselves with, describing the advantages and shortcomings of the ways to be considered. This has not been done in sufficient ways in the case we are here. This is one of the reasons why we were acting out of line and asked for a hearing between the 2nd and 3rd. It's the job of the F.O.B. to monitor the Penitentiary Act. Enterprises will be monitored under the legislation on partnerships, private societies, communities and public societies. The Law on Social Affairs, No. 2/1995, says 1 mg. Sixty-three. ... withauthority of the President's permission: To ensure that the ratio of each sex to less than 40% is not less than 40%, the proportion of the sex should be established in the management board of the official organisations and when the executives are more than three in such communities should be established. In November 2018, the government tax manager concluded that it is likely that the staff headcount's definition of the criteria would generally be a common reason for providing false information to make business files. So a reporting form was changed to the point that the information sharing of business files is now based on a definition of annual accounts. When the company file receives an announcement of a change in the control of a partner, the announcement is made. If it doesn't meet the law on sexuality, it's not registered in a company file unless the union makes it better. The money's made backwards with the registration. Is it the bill to force an enterprise that has been in the same control for 20 years to change control? What's the point? Is it not the majority of the shareholders to be alert to the leading discovery of how a government is organized? Then there is the law on registration of real owners, No. 83/2019, and change in corporate law, No. 17/2003, if asked for information or request of reform, the company file has permission to apply day-to-day if it is not granted. There is also permission to use administrative fines if the head of the tax is not given information and not reported a change in the registration of the administration. We have the law. We have a contact within the system to see that the law is being carried out. This is going to happen normally. We should avoid overindulging in such laws. It is more important that legislation is clear and that members are responsible for the implementation of the legislation approved by the Council. Therefore, lawgivers and governments are not going to take on even more burdensome jobs. It is an empty prerogative, not to strengthen our country's commercial life, especially in the critical times in which we live today. I wish, as it has been stated here, that the matter will be taken to whatever. Work committees between 2 and 3rd. and called out guests. This evening's discussion has been very good, and it will truly be a new job on the three - road board. to the Hall of Congress. Thanks to it, there have been some information available today that will help us continue working on the situation and achieve better landings.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u94	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir To give the speech to Njáll, the Trausti of Friðbertsson. I'm not in a lot of trouble. I can't quite figure it out, and what. A senator may go over it in his response, which is exactly the alarm. All three members of the Independence Party of the Committee, which presents this matter in this hall, in advance of the committee. So I noticed why. A member of the council requested that the matter be called between 2 and 3. Um... and a few things would have been shown during the discussion, as normally happens at 2nd. But what I can't figure out is why it's here for 2nd. To this day, since it was before the committee, even early in the work of the Committee, before being sent to 2. Um... that would have to be called in a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. What are we doing here today? There are nine days after, or almost a whole day of this discussion, and that was a long time ago, long before the case was sent to this point. ... that it would be so unworked and a lot of vagueness that it would have to be called back in. Well, maybe. A senator helped me understand this? Why have we spent almost a whole day on this matter of so physical neglect and ill - working? It was a long time ago before it was sent to the 2nd. that they would be called in for a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. - Over to you, please. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u95	Mr. President. For members of the Independence Party, this material evidence was emphasized, and we would find more work and analysis of the situation here and abroad. As an example, I mention the point that has been presented in talks. Councilmen here today regarding the arrangement in Norway. We need to have this confirmed, what was presented in the discussion, whether this applies only to public stock companies in Norway, the Norwegian stock market. Is this the situation in Norway that is being compared with all the companies here, which are 394, if I remember correctly, as shown in an e - mail just prior to this discussion? According to the discussion, of these 394 companies in Iceland who have 50 or more employees, 66 have not achieved the goals that are listed under there, 15% of these enterprises. This system has, by nature, been working. As noted earlier in the discussion, we are reaching these goals. It's falling apart. There's been a lot of pressure to get this thing going, it's clear to everyone. But this is why we are on our own, so I speak for myself. We're calling for this basic information, we want to get a better explanation for this context of things. The issue is therefore reinstated in the committee as a result.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Njáll of Friðbertsson. I'm not in itself that unless there's been a lot of pressure to get the case here into the room until 2nd. I had a feeling. A senator would not be very happy to explain this impossible matter, and he has all my sympathy in that regard. But, hey. For this reason, members of the council who sign the committee's opinion in advance do so with wide eyes to send the case in here to the 2nd. Knowing it's not finished. There's no question about this from me to what. paritaprevir Of course, this is not okay with the Njáll of Friðbertsson. This is just a statement and a statement from me. This case should have been won much better by the committee. It's, for example. information may not be readily available, such as why. A senator mentioned, by e-mail, about which will be discussed in an effort to save a corner with something. We also note in our discussion that the important writings of Professor Stefánsson's Már are not even part of the evidence for general members. It's below all the caves, and that's what it is. I don't think it's worth a job commission. I just want to say what. paritaprevir The Njáll of Trausti Fnubert's Friðbertsson that the members of the Independence Party, three of the nine members of the Committee, should have stopped the coming of this matter. " Work better on the committee, and then discuss it after a year's visit when it would be better off. However, considering what has been said in the discussions here today, there would be a significant chance that significant changes would occur if not just a committee was to be put to sleep.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u97	Mr. President. Well, there's not much to add. It'll be more of a member of the Committee. There's been some points in the discussion today that we can use. This has been a detailed discussion, with lively discussions of this autumn or winter, here in the hall; large speculations; and many good points that can be done. [[Up front.]] This matter can be done much better, and that is what we are going to do about it. Work committee between 2 and 3rd. We're going to call for more data on individual factors. We were getting mail just before this discussion, and we've been calling for more discussions about some things. There are many things to consider in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u98	A respectable president. At one time, I was very skeptical that it should be an enterprise's duty to have equal gender ratios. I thought they should do it themselves. It was a temporary arrangement, and we carefully observed how the company responded to the scope given to them to improve the sex ratios in corporate management. Good label, we're not talking about SMEs but about companies with 50 people and bigger. Nothing happened. The big movie was that nothing happened. It didn't happen until the companies were pressured into using sex music when it came to the choice of enterprises at this level. It is of great interest to me because freedom is so precious to me, freedom is so important to us in our social development, to the quality of life for us Icelanders, when I get that feeling after I've listened to the discussion in a case where only women are transporters, and there are more and less just guys from the Independence Party and the Middle East who have come up here and protested this and carried the flag of freedom - which is nothing but nonsense. In my opinion, freedom is an equal freedom. Because there's no equality, there's no freedom. As a result, there will not be advancements and monasteries in Icelandic society, if we could not contribute, since we have the ability to live by the counsel and revitality, the equal rights of men and women, at any time, the rights of the sexes at any time. This is one way to go. But I find it hard to listen to. I'm opposed to Njáll. Friðbertsson Whether the issue of equality is custody because he said: "This case is a matter of fate. He's on the commission in advance. [[The president calls.]] It is proper to state that all male members of the Independence Party are on notice, natural, this is equal, and then they are on notice. [[The president calls.]] But I'd like to ask why. A senator: Does he consider equality, struggle for equality, and increase the freedom of the sex to be equal, to be custody? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u99	The President reminds me of a time limit of two minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u100	Mr. President. No, equality is not a premium, because I've put them on a high priority over the years, whether in Iceland or abroad, talking about our success in equality and how immensely important it is to us in Iceland, in a job market and elsewhere. The foundation for a high standard of living in Iceland is how powerful we are in equality. What I'm pointing out in general in this matter, as with many others, is that legislation, which is present and is quite clear, by adding laws above it, is adding more laws and complex laws. That's all I'm talking about. And this is often true in this fine hall, the Precinctism is often used in legislation. I'm just saying, in this matter, we have legislation, I pointed to it, the bill of the year and other law columns, and in this case, we've nearly achieved all our goals. What we need even. to add to the committee, as mentioned today, is to observe how this has worked. Based on what has been presented in this discussion, and if everything is right and what has been said here, we are almost all the way. Information that we received just before this discussion at the council shows that we are soon to reach the relevant goals. But that is just the basis for legislation to exist that covers and should reach the goals we are discussing in the Assembly Hall tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u101	A respectable president. There are seven or eight women who present this case and do it because they want to push matters into equal terms. We've been fogging around, but it hasn't happened without reproach. This has not occurred without a struggle. I mentioned here the equivalent of a contract that came up with members of the Independence Party in part against, members of the Central Party, as well. So do you experience this rebellion here at the Congress Hall. I'm glad to hear it, and I like it. A senator spoke of equality as not a guardianism. So I would like to ask him: " Does he agree with me in that freedom follows equality? If there's equality, there's freedom. Speaking of us being there: No, we're not there yet. In case of a moment. The members of the Independence Party and the Central Party think we've reached equality, so it's not like that. Wait a minute. Senators checking in, including Difference in the gender's salary in the labour market. There is still a gap between measures to bridge. I fear, both in response to this matter, but also in the debate of the birthworm, the approach I hear that some of the Independence Party are presented. I fear this too, in view of the attitudes that apply in all other areas where freedom is not mentioned. Then I'm talking about farming and fishing. Then there is no flag of freedom to be waved because freedom must not prevail there. But if we're going to fight for real freedom through equality, with the goal of promoting equality, because that's how we get real freedom, then everything is done to stop it. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. President. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he agrees with me in that by equality we gain freedom in the community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u102	Mr. President. This may be why the Committee's work would be very desirable to learn more about how the trend has been since 2013, which we are discussing and improving. I am convinced that we have achieved remarkable results, and that is evolution. You would want to see the fact that it too in these issues, rather than allow us to set laws forever on things that are actually happening and that are positive. There's a lot of stings and I've got e.g. They're trying to draw attention to the issues of young boys in the school system and other, we've got a huge case that's also on the issue of equality. I think that the legislation we already have today is sufficient to achieve it and that set the goals we will achieve by means of this legislation. You don't have to work so hard in the way suggested in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u103	Mr. President. I have to say, I find it somewhat in my mind that we are discussing such bill just in the middle of the work - and - house rescue operations. In view of this, it may not be surprising that many who are observing our work here at the High General wondered if we are really in touch with reality. A lot of companies are fighting for their lives. I have considered these days, these weeks, these months, to be our primary role in this hall to provide some shelter for these companies, but more so as to have a fight here when we finally got through this code. But no, here is to lift the line up high. He's to be taken out of full weight, Mr. President. However, there is nothing available, not in a paper with this bill, but in a committee of more part of the employment committee, not in any of the information or reports I have read, about the potential effects of such legislation could have on the companies and thus on the homes. So it's a little late to say, Mr. President, that I do a bill of the kind that we're discussing here. I know we're at the highest. Secretary of State is going to have a chat later, even though he's going to scream at me here, about the legal planning of the government. But let's leave it in the middle. Not to be surprised that I am at the head of a law code on sexuality in my own communities, just as I am, for example. versus the idea that someone might think of putting sexuality in high school, college, or certain professions. Of course, the regulations for specific fertilities in part - set sexuality violate the rights of the Constitution. Of course, keeping a person's right to take care of his money as they count it wise to vote when it comes to ordering, when it comes to defending the property of those tied in part, is contrary to the spirit of the constitution, and all ideas about self - determination of each person. But I'm convinced that all companies, at least All the people I know to - and I have as an old journalist considerable experience watching and studying my business and having enjoyed it in my work here as a member of the body to get to know companies and their views - have the goal of choosing talented individuals to manage the companies, in the executives, in the administrations of companies, regardless of gender. In this respect, I claim that the old hours of our men have passed. It is the ability that matters most, and it is the ability involved. Is it not clear that by the law on fertilization of fertilities in the communities and the social law and private societies, glass roofs have been placed on women at the same time against the purpose that men claimed to have in their laws? It was given to women, e.g. to try at the Management Board of Iceland's Life Insurance Association in 2016. There the shareholders planned to vote for women in more than 60% of the government model. It was illegal, Mr. President. By so doing, the law immediately began to counteract the goal of increasing the benefit and impact of women in Icelandic commercial living. According to the law, however, there were too few men in the administration of that community, four women, and one male, and not allowed to do so. It wasn't allowed. In the United States, stockholders of Iceland's Life Insurance Association were not allowed to appoint the most talented individuals they trusted to have the highest authority for shareholders involved in the company's administration. Isn't it surprising if I refuse such laws, Mr. President? I just have more faith in Icelandic business than it is that men, shareholders, have to be forced to make good decisions. Of course, making wise decisions in these matters involves finding the most talented of people. They just happen to be women at times. The will of the shareholders, the owner of a company, dictates that only women in control are not willing to do so by the legislature. Sometimes this is the other way around, i.e. That there are men. But it'll just have to be. And imagine, if women get together, start a business that they've done and have done, and have achieved absolutely incredible results - and they're too successful, too successful, the business grows and thrives, and within a few years, the workers will be taken over by these women, these pioneers, and they'll be told: No, wait a bit. You can't be in charge of a quest because men have to come to work now. Now men have to get to work, Mr. President. In my mind, this is a bill, in which a business ticket is applied in the way suggested, at first irresistibly. In addition, it is based on the ideologies that it is right to limit individual rights and to deprive them of the right to make decisions in their own matters. Most of this bill is thought-insolised, and when it occurred at the previous Parliaments, it has not been able to cross and respond to criticism and/or comment on the defects of the bill, at least at the time of the previous council. twice. The bill that we discuss will include some vague provision for financial strength, which is in no way defined in the bill, i.e. that day's fines and may be considered in the company's financial strength. In a bill report, there is no attempt to provide a guide module to what is meant. Thus, when it comes to determining financial strength and what is included in what should be the basis for day - to - day parking, there will be no legal evidence. Nor does the name of the majority of the material available here provide any guidance, no answer to the value of an enterprise's financial strength. Economic concentrations vary, not just by companies, but by sector. In one industry a substantial amount of financial strength is needed, e.g. In a business venture, we can name a airline, we can name a seabed company, but there may be another level of financial strength that needs to be considered when it comes to shops. A car repair shop run by the employer's independence may have its own budget of 50 million. K. and is financially strong. A company on a fishing road, 500 billion. K. However, with your own money, Mr. President, financially ill. What is more, what makes it more complex, is that the conservative talk, i.e. The account of the company's annual account does not always provide a proper picture of financial strength. It can, for example, be used. Be nonsensible and humanly debated, e.g. may be possessions that have been fully copied, etc. As shown in the face of what happened. The head of the Commission opinion of the greater part of the employment board earlier today cannot be explained by the transporter or the person involved in this process as to what is meant when it comes to financial support because it is not absolute, it does not conflict with companies or professional sectors. I didn't get any answers to why the movers believe it's 156th par. partner-shaped and 130th par. Personal partner support is not sufficient to achieve the target. It is quite clear that the companies that fall under the physioovian code have no choice. They must obey that law, and they must be sent a notification, law - by - law, to partner files, and to dissociate, including Who is in charge there, and what sex ratio is. If a person sends out the wrong announcement, does not comply with his partner's requirements or neglects to send the notifications to which the partner should, including the partner's office, or does not comply with the rules of his/her partner. under the administration of a government, the parting body of fines can be used, and guardians can face even up to one year in prison. But that's not enough. In addition, if you are a traveling overseer, you are going to record a day's fines and then take into account something I did to talk about earlier, which they call financial strength. Even the transporters themselves do not know what those words mean. The worst part is that an experiment on the committee is not being made to define what is meant by these words, though all should be based on. Mr. President. In general, I believe that it should be honored that a private company can make decisions that they consider to serve their interests best. I'm absolutely convinced that if we do, we don't have to worry about what some people in this room call diversity. It can mean many things and different things for each individual. Diversity is not just a matter of having men and women but also in the background of government officials, education, experience, age, etc., even interests. Polydiversity is not just that the ratio of the enterprise's governments is equal. If there is diversity, let us consider dating governments and making arrangements that there is a certain percentage of older citizens, a certain proportion of people below 30 years of age, and so on. It was mentioned earlier on the subject of equality, and I say, "Why is equality between sexes all concern is? Why do humans not have equality when it comes to living? So why don't we set out a set set set of countries that have a fixed size distribution across the country, a specific distribution at the time of their age, education, etc.? No, Mr. President, at the end of the day, we should trust our fellow citizens. We are to rely on those who control and have taken everything into account their partner's business to make good decisions. Of course, their self - centered decisions are bound to find the most talented people. And that is what has happened over the past few decades, and it has become my experience, that talent is especially among women. We'll see, for example. what developments have taken place in higher education here, where women have become more and more in great numbers, and I mention it there at the University of Iceland. I can see that my time is running out, but I can't afford to compromise just the minority of the employment committees, okay? paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Is remnant, and the conqueror of the Sigurður of Páll Jónsson. To their credit, I must tell them that they were doing their homework. I call attention to what is presented in the committee article that quotes Stefánsson Quantsson. I would have wanted all the answers to Stefán, the Már of Stefánsson, to appear on the whole case. But for some reason I don't know how to explain, it isn't. But I hope that Már Mots' warning will be at least to give you reason to think before opening this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason speech. She was excellent, and I agree with many of the points presented there. Haven't been long ago working in an environment where I was a manager for a company that had just over 50 employees, it's easy for you to try on these rules and we're in a very strange place with this case. Hv. In his speech, a senator did well to consider how neglect this matter is, how much more work remains on it, and I said in an earlier reply today that I felt that there had been a significant chance that complete, fundamental changes had occurred in the case if there had been more work on the committee, and it could never have been done. Um... these are the comments. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would know why we have been here all day to discuss this very matter. It's totally incomprehensible. At the end of this discussion, a senator came to see that such issues as the opinion of Professor Már, Stefánsson's son, are not part of the evidence. Committee writers, who were deemed to be in advance, say that data have been coming in just 15 minutes before the discussion began. I know how to do it. A senator, who is now president of the day. The Economic and Business Committee, any explanation that we are here today to discuss this matter? [[The president now readily agreed to do so. A senator responded because the matter is not for party brothers, but in view of the language, it is on the ground that there is a conflict between the journey, so it seemed to be off - limits. Senators stay.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u105	Mr. President. The simple, smooth answer is: No, I don't know how to figure it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u106	A respectable president. I apologize for being on the lawn. Of course, I should have directed that question to the highest level. A president who is much closer to answering this question, which I consider reasonable, in view of how the discussion has been presented today and what has been demonstrated. V.E.G. The president thought it was closer than an answer. Those questions of mine came up with such a repetitious answer. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason had no explanation that this matter was being discussed today, as strange as it is today. In fact, all three members of the Independence Party are now on the committee's opinion, being aware, but the defence is primarily that more and more, more, more, and so on, the evidence needs to be considered. I did not hear any material comments made by one of the members of the Independence Party who spoke here today. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Now several members of the Independence Party have participated in the debate today, can it be concluded that these are those who have warned about the material issues to air out, so to speak, while others of the Independence Party think of this approach?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u107	Mr. President. I can't be as short as last year's answer, and I ask for credit. I'm not gonna try to turn the question out, okay? paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason, however, I speak first and last in my own name. I have tried not to speak for other members of the Independence Party. I'm pointing, for example. to say that a member of the Independence Party is a carrier on this bill, and I think it's a good rule that people get the freedom to account for their own opinions, and most important, I think that my comrades of the Independence Party - some of whom, not all - are now ready to give me the assignment to speak for them. The party of Independence Party, however, has not developed any views on the whole matter. There are individuals here as individuals. This is also a Senate bill. But I think that in the end, my views and attitudes are not far apart from those of my peers who are on notice at the Committee's list of parts of the employment committee on this matter. Other than that, I only refer to each person. But I think it's the same thing, at least. When it's time to paint the dog. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, if I have understood his speech well. I think I can say most if not everything he said there and I hope it's mutual.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-07-32.u108	The issue of the 7th session is now postponed, and I have been informed by the chairman of the case that it is best called back to the committee at this stage and will then be done. The discussion is postponed, and the case goes back to what? Business committee.
