ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u1	There have been letters from foreign and development co-worker to provide written answers to panels. 1142 on a ground plan of action, from Friðbjörg Fjoura, the daughter of Elíasdóttir; on the icicle. 788, on the committee, on the staff, and on the helm, from the Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson; and on the icicle. 71, for the release of international contracts, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u2	The third part of the program, a change in various laws due to a pandemic crown virus, has passed too far since its distribution according to general rules. It is starting after April 1 and is not yet the 3rd - mg delay. Thirty-seven. Parliamentary conditions, i.e. So called a five-day rule. Since there is a full agreement between members of the council for the payment of the case, the president considers that noncommunications are accepted without a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u3	To answer, Ministers of Economic and Economic Affairs, Transport and Regional Ministers, Tourism, Industrial and Development, Social and Juvenile Affairs, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u4	A respectable president. We have made clear the importance of supporting the government's issues that increase and facilitate economic and employment demand, homes and businesses. Of course, we will continue to work with the proposals for improvement, to make financial support, and to ask questions, as our democratic role indicates. Tomorrow, the government will introduce a new financial package and a new pack of measures, and I especially rejoice because it is now less than a month since the last package was introduced. It's a long time at such an inexplicable time. I'd like to get past the highest level. The secretary of finance is sure to not think of small companies, to form the form of temporarily canceling the insurance fee, as we did at the government Anti-Progressor. I'd especially like to enter the highest. Ministers to see if there will be a reimbursement rate for innovation, research and development raised in this package of action and also whether a minister will see that we are considering changes in the part- work route, including to meet the views of innovation companies. I rejoice that what I cut off by the minister, that he shall be of the husbandman. Are we speaking, then, of the fact that there will be special support for small companies and monotonies that would have to be temporarily shut down? Most importantly, I'd like to ask the minister if tomorrow's package will not be supported by any form of media. We realize that the government disagrees with us on the support of a media bill. Secretary of education. I think it is quite clear that the media need now, like other companies, on temporary action. I ask: Will the package that will be introduced tomorrow contain suggestions?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u5	A respectable president. It's a bit difficult to respond to this inquiry, considering that we've thought of presenting our actions tomorrow. I can say, however, that all of these points mentioned here are for special consideration. We've been looking at smaller companies from the beginning. There are most of the jobs and, according to all standard SME definitions, we are talking about the percentage of all companies in the country. Yes, we look to an enterprise that has been designed to close its activities, and we have been asking ourselves, " How can I deal with their particular problems, what is fair in doing so? ' We have also noticed the media level discussion, and we have come to realize that the part-time improvement route does not respond to all the opinions that arise in companies that may not be needed for all the employees involved in the recruitment relationship. I believe in the particular aspect that since the introduction of our first action, from, for example, there was considerable straining in the river from the time we presented our initial actions. that part - time work was legally established that the appearance had not improved. This calls for a discussion of the ways in which we can see that the months after the part - time job process is concluded by law. It is a very demanding position, especially because of the companies who have even nothing to do with the workers in the months to come but who want to look for ways to find some basis for conversation with demands, financial institutions, others who are willing to provide payment, so that they will be sheltered during the worst and the greatest storm.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u6	Mr. President. I agree with a minister, I think we also need to consider what Danir did, in fact, in a parapolitan agreement. I encourage the government, however, to consider that at the council, we may have to extend the part-work arrangement in some way, extend them improvements. I think in the light of words, too. Minister now that it is important that we keep our companies alive to get enough alive, hopefully not later than fall, so we have companies that are going back to economic and professional life, while we're going to have the fight to be. Rather, the rules of rules must be clear, along with the decisions we make in the same direction. The transparency has to be complete, because part of the growth of the power of the wood trade is going to be higher in the fall with the economy and the households, that the action we take because of the companies we are dispensing funds to be trustworthy, that the solid state of resistance will become stronger. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. Minister that we have the guidelines for building the building right away from day one.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u7	A respectable president. Yes, I can say that it is very important that we are working with some principles, and there is a clear answer to the application of the resources we are suggesting. That's how we have, for example. The legal board of surveillance with the loans is to be considered, and this committee will be given an extended role on how the proposals of the future government will be taken. I also welcome the emphasis of the times. A senator's job is to get the economy back online because it's our main project. What's wrong with right now is not that our welfare network is not too busy. We have a powerful support system. We also have automatic swingers, and they are doing just what they're supposed to do right now. What's happening is that there's a big hole in income and there's been a fall in the land, and we're supposed to focus all our energy on fixing that problem. That is the basis for all our concerns.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u8	President. We'll be talking about solidarity these days. V.E.G. The prime minister spoke of a solidarity when she urged a business in the fishing field to drop from its billions'budget on the state funds because, by permission of the president: That is not a good way to promote solidarity in the community. This is not a good way to be on the same boat through the journey we are on. Although I believe the government has a good cause in this case, I think it is reasonable for this company to consider withdrawing the demands. Now all of us, whether we are running a business, are hired men, senators, or whoever we are. There are fast steps ahead, not just the limitations of our meetings, but times ahead of the economy. President. I agree with the highest. The prime minister, therefore, would like to discuss the responsibility and solidarity of the minister and members of the council with the public at the highest level. Secretary of finance. Tremendous economic hardships face and lead to great loss of income and even loss of employment, but at the same time, to carry out the remuneration of senators and Ministers at the next month's convention. This procedure will include retrospective pay four months ago and a minister's salary increases more than 100,000 a month, the salary of the prime minister is about 130,000, and the salary of our members of Congress is about 70,000. In contrast, for the next four years, a total increase in the pay of nurses will be agreed on by their agreement with the State, followed by a single increase in the contract. A raise of pay. The prime minister is nearly twice that amount. I say it like the highest. Prime Minister: This is not a good way to promote solidarity in the community. This is not a good way to be on the same boat through the journey we are on. So I want to ask the highest. Ministers, whether or not he feels normal and self-deserved that members of Congress and ministers will fail from these promotions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u9	A respectable president. First thing I'm gonna do is get right. A senator when she says that there is a pay raise. There's no decision on these matters, just not over their heads. However, the General made a decision shortly thereafter to postpone a pay raise that was to be carried out in the middle of the last summer until the year. The law says that their reward is theirs. A senator refers to the rise of January 1. It's against the law. I've not been making any decision on these subjects, no one, except that I suggested at the council some time ago that we would postpone the rise that had occurred in the summer for about six months. It is then that in the second time that this proposal is made in one year, we postpone a raise to members of Congress who have not been a member of Congress since 2016. I call attention to the fact that a few days ago we published on the Ministry of finance, an overview of the salary development of members of Congress, Ministers, and high officials, and were associated with the raises of other people over the past decade. It is obvious from the comparison, which is a fundamental comparison in a conversation with the labour market back then, that when it comes to the promotions of the past decade, members of Congress and ministers are the submers of others. But what I'm sick of is discussing here at the Hall of Congress. That men cannot agree on finding an arrangement that allows these things to go their usual way over the years. We canceled Kjaravordi. We've set up a board of men's minds. Soon, we decided to establish laws on these subjects. But even a single adjustment in the law has not been made since it was decided, before members of the council hall come up here and plan to strike by taking matters back. [[The president calls.]] I'm just asking, " How on earth is it possible to find an arrangement when we're doing so badly over a period of over a decade? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u10	President. I wanted to be able to say that I was sorry to have pissed off the most. Secretary of the budget, but I'm just not sorry about that. V.E.G. Secretary of finance gets irritated over the smallest things, but I find this phrase unpleasant, that I don't use the right word, and that somehow it should be corrected. [[Up front.]] This does not focus on what you use. It is true that it should be a pay raise for members of Congress and Ministers on January 1. I know it's happened. However, my question does not turn to that question. These are not normal times. We are not talking about normal times and the rightness of our return. I know that the minister did not decide on these raises, it's an index increase, but we still have to decide if we're going to be in the same boat as the public now, or whether we're going to get our pay raise while others have a decrease. That's the question I want to ask. What's your position? Financial and economic ministers to insist that Congress and Ministers do not increase their wages at the same time as we aim toward a deep economic crisis? That is true, this increase in pay means that we increased our salary. It was not performed on time, so it is due to be performed on May 1. That way we'll get money in our bank account, and we're raising money. Is it normal for us to raise our wages at those times? [[The president calls.]] Shouldn't we be in the same boat, like the highest. Prime Minister said, with all the people in the country? That's my question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u11	A respectable president. I just wanted it to be perfectly clear, since this inquiry is directed to me that I'm not making any decision, nothing has been suggested at the council but to postpone the next raise. It was the council itself that determined the increase that went into effect for years, although it is only right by then. A senator that has not yet been paid out, but that is not my decision. It's a fair question to be asked here. How do I feel about the efforts of government officials today to set a good example and to follow others in our community? I think it's a good idea, but the latest thing that we've done in this business is to negotiate now with nurses for raises, before with medical personnel and before with BHM and other public unions. The question has been raised in public markets, and this was rejected by the trade unions. No such movement is on, except for those who are losing their job. That's very serious, and that's what we're talking about here in a number of conferences at the Senate Hall. On the other hand, I think it would be good to consider, if any serious conversation about paying off or losing the money, the government officials, who are in the government, should lead that change, that development. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u12	Mr. President. It has been repeated in this public discourse and elsewhere that, of course, we are living in very peculiar times these days. I think all members of Congress get requests or tips or even calls from companies all over town that describe their status, and I'm sure it's a major profession, tourism, is about to collapse. Still, we must not act that way or take action or take action that leads to even other jobs or companies having problems. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of another problem we have, and I'm worried about, and I know that many people are worried about, but there's a failure between Landing and Rio Tinto Alcan, Isal, and I'm going to allow myself to call it below, about the position of that company. We know that this company has had a serious business problem for a long time. There are hundreds of direct jobs associated with this company, certainly thousands of jobs at stake when all thought. But somehow, there is very little uncertainty, both for all this staff, about all these jobs, about the rural communities involved. I simply want to ask the highest. The secretary of the budget and the secretary of the economy whether these cases have been installed on his desk, whether or not the Minister applied in this case, whether the Ministry came up to discuss the situation between Legislation and Isal and then, at the same time, whether or not there is anything to do with the case. It seems a significant chance, it seems, that this company will sue the company first, and secondly there is a significant risk that it will simply close or start to reduce its activities in the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u13	A respectable president. Here is a language that is foreordained in a special discussion at the council. I'd like to start by saying that in the past few months, I've been really worried about all the energy industry in Iceland and other sources. on that occasion, we did the highest. Industrial Minister, we have a trip to major companies in this area. We both went into Straumsvík, and up on Grundartan, and we talked to the firms there. We also went east and sat down with a remote man, asking questions that would depend on their general environment at the moment. It is quite clear that their work conditions on international markets have become extremely tight. To say, the main problem of all these enterprises is that the outside circumstances have been very negative to them. It's special to ask if I'm in the Rio Tinto Alcan next to Landing, and then I can say yes, I've had a meeting with Rio Tinto who specifically asked for a meeting with me. All such meetings are held under the premise that over-the-country is an independent administration, and in this case the government is independent, and the members of the club are acting. However, I think it is more than likely to listen to the concerns of the companies who have a business in the country, regardless of the nature of such a subject. Everything that targets electricity agreements for land activation has to be a conversation in the middle-of-the-line discussions between the enterprises and I have had information from Land activation that these interviews are going on. So I'm going to allow myself to hope that this important client of the United Kingdom could get in contact with Landing Solution on his main concerns that I'm not in any detail.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u14	Mr. President. I am surprised that it seems that a minister is telling us that he has not so far used himself specifically in the matter. I'd like to ask a minister if he thinks there's any way he can use himself further. It is true that there is a government over Legislation, but that government is ideal and set by us here, i.e. of Minister. He has shares in this company and is therefore several responsible for the administration and the company. We must expect a minister to act in some way when faced with such danger. Does he feel that he can get involved? Will a minister consider reviewing the case with the president of the Country Iactivation? There is no reconciliation in the words of the director of national activation when it comes to the affairs of this company, at least not in the media. We must call for the other problems we face in Iceland today that are at stake, as well as the jobs and the remunerations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u15	A respectable president. I'm sure that I, along with the Minister of Industrial Affairs, had a meeting with the director and director. Country activation last week, where we had specifically requested land activation assessment in general at the headcounts of civilisation clients. I, however, have to disagree. A senator when it comes to a government's use of the company because it is a very narrow set of conditions where land induction is a competitive business. However, it is imperative that at the council and in the general government, we be well informed about the position of this important industry in the country, which has a high level of energy. It is turning electricity into an enormous amount of value for national preparations and like a whale. A senator named hundreds, and as a team of thousands of jobs and great interests for the rural communities involved. I am deeply concerned about how much winds have turned against this nation's activities in recent months because of the development of international markets. [[The president calls.]] We will closely monitor how these enterprises develop in the months to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u16	A respectable president. During the unprepared question period of March 23rd. I was discussing the insurance policy and worrying about her evolution at the highest level. Secretary of finance. Then he said, under the permission of a president: ▪ I draw attention to the fact that since this morning's statement by the Federal Bank has resulted in the growth of prices to 0%, not just for a short time, but up until 2026.◯ A respectable president. I'm asking, "Go to the top." Financial and economic secretary to a fortune-teller or a fortune- teller to get this information about 0% interest for the next six years? Is this true? Then it is the greatest miracle ever to enter Iceland's interest market and, if so, great. But no, it's about 0% the highest dreams. I have found no ministers, not banks, not pension funds, or anywhere else in the financial system. More than any loan in Iceland is insured. Insecure loans take into account inflation. In that case, almost all contracts in Iceland are inflatable. Thus, insurance will have a huge impact on rent, and it will be of enormous importance to all renters. If there is no fear of inflation, would it not be okay to decommission the insurance immediately to calm people and eliminate the fear that inflation will start with a possession recording, as did 15,000 families in the collapse of the bank? So I ask the highest. Secretary of finance: Is this just a dream at cans, 0% interest in six years of home prices, and if it isn't, how will that be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u17	A respectable president. What I was referring to that morning as it was. A senator refers simply to the market requirement that day. Perhaps I should have talked more about the question of the fruit requirement for those letters. So in recent years, we have had the success of the credibility of public finance, so when the Sustainer takes on as much action as it meant and reduces interest, people have faith in the bank's actions. It's in the market response. Reading in trade through financing business ventures that take several years into the future shows what the market's religion is about to grow and inflation to the future. That's what we were discussing that morning. I feel like there's a lack of speech. A senator to let it be known that we have never before, at least not since I was born, having as good a interest in the land as today, e.g. on the mortgage. The conference bank's muscles have never been lower before. Some feel that they should be even lower than they are today, and they indicate that they are in proportion to the interest of the growth in which they were present before this Covid epidemic fell less in this country than in any other country. We may be more relevant to growing numbers than if the discussion is to focus on growth as such, we will at least be doing so. keep it in your discussion that they have never been more favorable before. Then we can discuss another matter as to whether there is any danger of inflation. I'm just like others about it, that as soon as you see any signs of inflation, you have reason to worry. At this point, no one will assume a massive inflation. It's just a fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u18	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Yes, it had to be a dream that it was 0% interest. They have now appeared abroad. But the inflation shot that a minister doesn't worry about, why don't you just break the house's fears and just unplug the insurance? We'll have the line below us and unplug it so that it'll be sure it doesn't run away. We must realize that the income of 2019 foreign tourists was 470 billion. It is fast going to the currency store, and the drop is free, and everything is rising, goods, and homes are already experiencing it, especially the worst. The start of securities loan cannot be made up of. If you don't worry about this, it'd be a great deal of trouble for people to take out their insurance policy, make sure they do. That should not be a big deal, since no one is afraid of anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u19	A respectable president. Hv. One senator says that this should not be a problem because no one is assuming inflation anyway. It's just a big deal. At the other end, there is a recipient of growth and compensation, which allows the pensioners to take the lead in the country. If those things are to be taken out of the way for the future, they must answer the challenge. We might as well set aside time for another discussion to determine what inflation is. Why not? That shouldn't be a big deal. It's just some measure we've decided to write into law. Why don't we just decide that in Iceland in the next few years, there will be only 1% inflation? Why not? We might also decide to have a temperature of 15 degrees. This discussion is not available. If we are going to wade into all the financial initiatives that have already been published and are the basis for selecting a pensioner in the country, we need to answer the question, What are the consequences of having the pension rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u20	Mr. President. I wish to have a place to speak at the highest. Economic and financial secretary for health support as a result of the Covid pandemic. The Ministry of Health called for medical staff in a so - called scoring squad and responded to the call. For example, 50 backmarks were employed in the Western Institute of Health, a 30% increase in staff. At a local hospital, 137 backs, nurses, medical staff, doctors, and others were employed, as well as a number of previous staff from Istavia who have been trained in other types of work at a local hospital. Medical institutions have been prepared to maintain the costs that result directly from the fight with the Covid virus and to regularly send the government. That's why I want to ask the highest. The secretary of finance whether he has some perspective on the expense that has already fallen because of a series and when it will be settled. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether the government of Iceland intends to go the same route as, for example, in Sweden, Norway, Germany and elsewhere and use the existing sources in the collective agreements of public employees to provide extra staff for the work-related stress right now during the Covid period. In Sweden, for example, there was As a result, their salary doubles, and in Germany the advance team gets $250,000. tax-free payment for an outbreak. Since it is necessary for health care institutions around the country to get clear answers on the budget, I ask the highest level. The secretary at the end is whether the government will provide a contribution to the medical institutions now so that they will not be brought between the budgets of the business and not merely some vague promise into the very uncertain future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u21	A respectable president. I believe we've been through this before. It is clear that all unpredictably high health costs due to this epidemic need to be added later this year at the time of the overall figure. There is no need to question whether financial resources will be guaranteed to the health institutions to meet all additional costs of the epidemic. For the HCP who has been on the front line, we have also considered this group in particular. Later, we will explain how we want to meet him. I think these matters are in good shape. It is true that there are cases from other countries, first of all, that governments have made it clear that the medical system will be financed. I believe we are among the states that have made that statement. There is no doubt that we are going to finance our health - care system well through this epidemic. Then, in various countries, I thought it would be in advance. A senator comes in, that there can be a special conflict in collective agreements. In this respect it is not entirely possible to compare with the situation in Iceland, where we do not have such regulations, either in law or in collective agreements, but it has been considered specifically, and we will report them later as I agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u22	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. In view of the lack of such provisions in the collective agreements of the public employees in this country, it does not appear to be the case at the highest level. Minister. It's, like, a... One of the BSRB proposals that points out that this is in contracts there. In addition to providing clear answers at the end of the year and at the end of the year, there are additional costs. It is also so that elective surgery, as is called, which, of course, is not a choice when a person cannot get out of bed because of needed action, has been delayed, and, of course, needs to be met by other financial institutions. I'm worried about our health system. Even though everyone has run so quickly recently, I worry about nursing homes that are scarce, clinics that are scarce. [[The president calls.]] Nursing nurses who are fired by local communities are now being seriously affected. So I reiterate my question: Will the government take this into account in the next package so that these operators are given clear answers to guarantee that funds will be guaranteed for such a operation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u23	A respectable president. I'm sure you're right next door. A senator whose example is that we have some support for such measures in individual dress contracts, but I meant in my previous speech that I don't think that we have a completely comparable arrangement in collective agreements and have, for example, an arrangement. were referred to in Sweden. All of this, however, has been considered, and I agree. A senator cannot wait until the fall to the end of the year or the end of the year for an answer to the health class. We'll take it. Then we must continue the discussion on the funding of individual health institutions. You're right about what you're doing. A senator said that after finishing a frame deal here a few years ago, the medical institutions have again made quite a difference. It's like a retake of the medical institutions, but I was going to talk about nursing now, especially now. We finished a frame deal for them a few years ago, and they seem to have had a significant worsening since that was done, and it has to be handled. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u24	President. I, like others, have a little anxiety about the future because we face a crisis that is going to take place but also because of the fact that we are here, I think, at considerable breakthroughs where trust and a strong business life are being built up for the future. We've been through all kinds of swings. Many of these are the result of our single state of employment. We know this and have known it for a long time, and we have more often than no vow that this is now a better time. After the 2008 collapse, a careful report from McKinsey arrived in 2012 that provided the lines on the road to growth for Iceland that would build on intelligent exports. At the end of this year, when WOW went headlong, AGS gave an opinion and again stated that we must build up for the future in something other than our traditional sectors. Despite all of this, we have not been able to expand our ability to expand our intelligence or to expand our work in these branches. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister may not share the view that this is an opportunity, not just an opportunity, but an urgent need to meet the challenge of sending more, more sustained, and varied support to Icelandic employment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The short answer is: Yes, I wholeheartedly agree. The answer is, I just disagree. A senator of little things has happened. We've taken major measures in terms of the environment for investments, the environment for pioneers, the environment for innovation in the past few years that have made a big difference. Fortunately, there are few companies here, wands, investments on the outside that have been very important. We see in this situation one of the positive things that happen when we have no choice at once but to jump off and change our behavior when changing technology that has taken us way too long to adopt. I think the health system will benefit from this. We have a number of health - treatment companies, technical solutions, whether for the health system or for the welfare system, that can make a difference for our heavy systems, which will cost more and more for the future and as exports that exactly make currency money. We already have an example in this Covid situation that the wisdom of the Icelanders is changing the world. We've issued a new creation policy. We have a bill that I hope will soon be able to measure for Korea, the key precept for developing the environment even faster. I agree that we're gonna have to move even faster. I really believe it, and not because I'm so optimistic, but because I am. I'm absolutely certain that we're looking at the faces of major growth and changes in Iceland's Neo-and pioneer environment, for the benefit of all of us, to run our community better, to have interesting jobs, hopefully to attract foreign experts here and to increase the national currency markets. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u26	Mr. President. I'd like to step back to the bus - related travel service. In many ways, the situation of this article had grown weak, and questions arise as to the magnitude of the debt set forth at the beginning of those difficulties. What I would like to say, though, is the highest. A minister is that we can now begin almost from scratch with a travel service in Iceland, perhaps an ill health - and certainly. What is being done to shape a new direction in Iceland's movements? What is the limit of the market campaign? Will we take firm hold of what we have been discussing for years, as outlined in this article? I know it's not popular to bring it up right now, but I'm asking about access controls and other things. I think most of us can agree that the growth was rough. We lost control of him, but now we have another chance, and let's try to be careful. What's the highest. Minister to think about these matters? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u27	Mr. President. These are good questions. There's a senator up here. The first thing about policy, we've already issued a policy frame, a guide for the tourism, until 2030. Of course, no one had that image in mind when it was won, but it was done so that she could survive anything, so that despite the need for us to change numbers, because things will be very different and smaller in the next few years, we are guided. When we get back to building up again, we should just stick to the guidance we have agreed on together, the government, the branch, and the countryside. The marketing campaign is about to begin. We're about to complete a cruise team and a task force in it. Uncertainty makes it impossible for us to know when we really can get started, and Iceland's office has already done a job that tells us what our most important and most valuable markets are. But it may well change dramatically. We cannot fight in a market area where there is great uncertainty and areas that may be severely damaged by the crown virus. [[The president calls.]] It may well be that we will have to change it; we will change what has to be done. What matters to me is that we stay completely by the guidance we have already agreed on because it is a guide to the future. [[The president calls.]] Yet, we do know that we will need much economy and financial reorganization in this article. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u28	President. I'd like to inform the people and the president of the Parliament that for more than two months, I have a quarter of the committees, who may wish to investigate certain issues and see how ministers exercise their authority, such as Article 39. The Constitution gives us permission, request, according to the Senate and the Constitution, that a minister appear before the committee, or sent the Ministry to the hearing about three cases. This can be done at telecommunications. One of the things is going to eat. I ask, "How does a company get away with more than 12% of the songs under law? " Secondly, Minister Covid. He started his own Covid case, which he can do, but he's completely neglected to inform us about it on a professional committee so we can keep an eye on him and what he's doing. It's our administrative duty. Third, it is a question of whether the fish farming laws violate four of the EEA Convention, if that is the case. It has come to pass and has been judged. A minister has to appear before a professional health committee. It's bound in a constitution, but it's been repeatedly neglected. The answers I get from the Chairman of the Committee are that this is being examined at the Ministry. It is not possible to allow the European Commission to get away with what we have noticed during an epidemic, to fail to respond. [[The president calls.]] We have to be able to keep a constitution on it. [[The president calls.]] Now it's clear to the President and the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u29	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct various laws due to a pandemic crown virus. The objective is to minimise the impact of fictitious bans and distance restrictions on the activities of various institutions on the legal matter of the Ministry of Justice, especially the courts and the districts, so that they can best carry out their legal duties during the time of the epidemic. This eye label suggests a law change, which most people should have agreed to provide more comprehensive sources for the use of telecommunications and other electronic solutions to their treatments. Some of these planned changes are intended to eliminate electronic barriers and become permanent, while others will only apply while social limitations are still valid. The aim is to simplify the system for the public, but no expenses follow. They are all designed to reduce the negative effects of the Korean pandemic on the implementation of legal projects. Changes can be considered a positive effect of Covid-19. The experience of various telecommunications and electronic media will hopefully be that public management and communication are moving faster into electronic form. For a time, there has been a lot of work being done on a digital government that this has a good idea and is still working, even more, today. The three proposed changes can easily be grouped up, and I will account for the key ones in the bill. First, it is suggested that civil treatment laws and criminal treatment laws be added provisional regulations allowing judges to determine that Congress and reporting should be conducted through telecommunications. In criminal cases, however, the divorce is made to report to the defendants, the defendants, and the key witnesses in the form and sound. A similar provision is then proposed regarding police reporting by the defendant and the witnesses. At the same time, documents and other visible evidence that should be presented on account of a business case are considered to be delivered to a court within a certain delay, as if without any cause sent to a court in a traditional way. Second, there are some changes in legislation that involve the activities of the Commission in the area of the Supreme Court. There are laws in terms of accession, forced sales, immobilisation, the exchange of dyings, etc. These changes allow the county to hold the company's phones or telecommunications systems. They will also be authorized temporarily to offer electronic treatments at the IX level. the management section, but this section does not apply to the Commission's activities in the field of supreme rights. Third, changes to the activities of the county and other institutions in other courts are proposed. There are also laws on adoption, children's laws, foreigners, death certificate and alcohol license laws, but these are linked with the idea of paying for electronic management and ensuring that rights do not go rights because of the Korean epidemic. I've reviewed the key changes proposed in the bill. As I said in the beginning, some of them are temporary. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u30	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. The bill suggests a change in various laws to allow either permanent or temporary electronic therapy, lawsuit treatment and the use of telecommunications in various cases, as agreed. It has also been noted in the announcement of the very harsh criticism of the bill from the household's Aggressive Organizations. The Syndicate severely criticizes the 10th paragraph. The bill, about the makeup, and 12. ...of forced sales. The review shows, with the permission of a president: They are said to represent a candidate by phone or telecommunications, and that this amounts to a candidate being personally present for the hearing in the sense of the law. There is no mention of a patient's tolerance in this relationship or how to ensure that he will have the right to exercise justice. This is a very harsh criticism that comes from an important organization, and they also criticize the implementation of these planned telecommunications. They also state in their review or criticism that these are just ridiculous suggestions at this point and a service to the candidates and a gross demonstration of discrimination toward tolerance. Mr. President. I think it's necessary to get the highest opinion. The minister of this harsh criticism, which is immediately presented at the beginning of the case, is expected to post a review to the committee at the time of the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u31	A respectable president. This bill allows the county to file a case via telecommunications company via telecommunications. The reason for being limited to a candidate is that he has an obligation to attend, not others, and is thus considered to be there, and it is very important to say so. And because of the question as easily as possible. A senator here applies only to the court request but not to an auction for photographing. This is only the beginning, the presidency itself, and the simple businessmen to follow the instructions given by the company of Covid which have been set and to reduce unnecessary exposure in the county's office. In general, few tolerances meet the company's receptions or auctions but, of course, they will still be available and will have to be sure that when they arrive, e.g. Without a lawyer, they're given the right information about their legal status. It must be guaranteed and with those who need to be there. It is important that this court is adequate, and especially if they do not have a lawyer, to ensure that their right to court is clear. Then I have to tell you why this is happening now, whether it is unfair or in some way unacceptable that this is being done electronically at that time. Of course not! This is the aim of making it possible for the politicians to carry out their duties. There are also measures that can be guaranteed, including those in debt. Because of payment problems, and I'm pointing out that the bill deals with that. The debt that is now about to be completed does not originate with the Koron virus epidemic. This often takes months and takes a very long turn, and it can't be said that what's going on now and doing electronically, has a chance for telecommunications, is somehow due to some new issues that have come up for some time because of the Korean epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u32	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. It is only now that this bill is actually paying street demands to perform funerals and forced sales in easier ways than ever before in these unprecedented times. At the same time as other countries, such as The United States, has ordered complete discontinuation of all forced halls, we are here making it easier for the demanding workers to walk in our homes and those who are neglected in the unprecedented situation we are today. Mr. President. So I have to say that the committee must oversee the details and in particular the comments that have been made from the household's Economic Organizations because this is a very serious matter. The last thing we want to see in our community today is that individuals need to see behind their homes in this unprecedented situation that they have no responsibility for.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u33	A respectable president. There wasn't much new in answer to what happened. Senator. I just reiterate that in the bill there are also debts to the debtors of various resources, including Because of problems with payment, and the debt that demands now being accomplished, the consequences of the pandemic cannot be attributed, in any way. The forwarding of both applications and forced sales has a long delay, so it is fairly clear that the current requirements cannot be attributed to the consequences. But because of the economic impact that exists, there are also debts that can be assured of some options, so I just refer to that matter and agree with it. A member of that committee needs to consider the matter, as does others involved in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u34	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the review of this excellent bill, which I must commend for because I think it would be very good if we tried to get the administration and the management system more into the present time. On December 14, 2018, there was a legal warrant for e-mailing and its Regulation adopted and confirmed in April last year, but it is still not possible to go and have Congress announced electronic documents at the county bodies across the country. It's been nearly a year and a half since it became a law and a year since the Regulation was agreed on how this should be done, but nothing will happen with the Union. You wonder, " Is my office to accept this bill now causing some changes, even changes that make it easier for them to do their work? ' According to a response from the county office, it is a matter in a working group or a control group. It doesn't seem to be a bit foggy. Then I would like to ask about the bill, if it was not possible to also make adjustments in marriage law so that people could just go into Iceland and apply for divorce there, because they have a certain right effect as soon as divorce is applied, there will be certain right effects just when applying for the application. Today, you will have to wait for months for your first interview with an agent, and there can be extraordinary things that can happen at that time, especially in the case of very difficult situations between husband and wife. It makes it hard for you to see that management prevents normal right effects when adults are demanding divorce.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for whom it appears important. I want to say that I realize that e-mails have taken way too long. They are, however, far more complex than putting in certain forms that are also in the process and adding to telecommunications. I'm not worried that any of the ways we're going on this bill can't go into effect and can get into effect right now. There's a lot of analysis now, and I've worked very hard to get it going even faster. The tests are starting with the first stage right now, so I think this is going to happen fast, and I'm going to see a time frame for this year, when we first see information being electronic, and then Congress. It's a very important service we're going to perform to the county. Hv. A senator also mentions the law of marriage. It's something I've been looking at, and 50 new forms have been put on a family field in Iceland. It is our hope that it will ease and speed up the proceedings and help to shorten all too long a waiting list that is part of the company's case. We see more and more people going inland.is, actually being added forms every week, and I have high hopes that they will help speed up justice, shorten a waiting list for the businessman, and increase the efficiency of the system. I need to examine this marriage sheet in particular about divorce. Of course, I am also studying laws and regulations on divorce and how to make it all easier to do so, which may not be limited to electronic views.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u36	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. I'm still a little stuck in my marriage cases because I think we have to start getting rid of ourselves there, i.e. In marriage and incest. Since July 8, 2019, this is not the case with new issues involving contact, custody, and children's legal home. No new issues have been addressed. Then we're talking about those who came in before July 8th, where it was time for an agent to start the case, but they haven't had the first interview yet. There are young children who often do not get involved with either parent, who have not yet made a decision for custody or law and such. There is an electronic management system, as is now being discussed, of course, about some effect. [[The president calls.]] But when it takes a year to complete e - mails, you wonder if this is impossible for you or if we may need to place extra money on the state of the county. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u37	A respectable president. I just agree with what. A senator said that the treatment is unacceptable in this way. The extra items that arrived this year and went to the office in the capital area were to be started on electronic terms only as well as shortening family treatment sessions. The money was to solve only two problems. In addition, I've moved a project from the capital area, and I'm covering more people, into the country to reduce that office, to increase electronic services that also relieve some relief, to make forms for parents who ask for land visas, and other things that should be simple but have taken far too long. It's all electronic, and of course it will. I think all of these items together will be successful; to prioritize the extra funds that now go to the county administration in the main areas, where waiting is so long, especially in family affairs, to speed up electronic interpretations, to increase electronic services and to increase the number of electronic forms and to land projects for relief.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u38	President. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Justice to see if there have been a consultation with the National Aggressive Association in the process of winning the bill. It is because since collapse, the International Economic Organization has fought for the failure of the ownership rights of those who own their property, own their homes, and especially when these are people's homes. It's a struggle the organization has fought all this time, and I don't think it's a good job to stay out of contact with the National Aggressor Organization. They point to material things and are the only person who has sent in a review of this matter. The organization points out that now it is authorized, not to lose the right influence, the claim of those who lent the individual, the creditors' claim rights, the big parties, the ones who were always worthy of a crash. That's why there was an Aggressor organization, the highest. The Minister of Justice of the Independence Party, to protect the rights of the households, the rights of the people whose rights are natural to be guaranteed and set in common with the rights of the perfunctory, according to the Party's Founding Convention and the values to which it rests. I ask a minister if she will be opposed at the Committee's work, in addition to all the electronic documents that the demandsant will be given to the owners of the owners, for the homes, for the individuals. They're authorized to do things electronically so as not to lose the right effect. Is it also guaranteed that all kinds of meals and items directed against, i.e. the homes, also having a warrant, that his authority to get every, wait time, arrive at meetings, etc. to be assured? Does Ministers object to the fact that homes and crews stand just as high in electronic solutions in the bill? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u39	A respectable president. I answered the same question earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u40	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u41	Important rights are at stake, and all of us realize that. The changes in this bill will make no effort to claim anything. It's only a matter of making it easier for the politicians to carry out their assignments under law. The committee will work this case and suggest some changes, good and good, but I went over the past that it is being tried to ensure a candidate's right to adequate counsel on his legal status, that he is committed, and it is easier to do so when the person arrives than through telecommunications. While this may be a matter of fact to consider, it is important to make sure that the demands are not easy for demands but, on the contrary, they are being addressed to various matters and means of payment, to make up for debts. It is merely a form of telecommunication as a possibility for the Commission to carry out their work under law and not to be easy on demands. The bill was worked in a hurry. Various laws have had to be changed, and new things have always been developed that we see the need to respond because of the limit of meeting and the distance. So there was little consultation in the processing of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u42	President. It's exactly this, the case was worked in a hurry and a small consultation. Still, some things can be easier. I mentioned in a previous answer that, as we put it, the rights that exist are not lost, the people are not losing their rights if they are a demandsant. There is nothing in this bill that it does not lose its authority to extend extensions, etc. the requirement is home. That's what I'm worried about. I've seen this in the 2013 Parliament. Then the minister of justice was authorized to file a lawsuit on behalf of the homes. I spoke to Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter repeatedly, who was then the greatest. Minister of the Interior, who handled judicial matters. That document was just not used. The right to the claimors, banks, was always protected, and homes were permitted to wait. That's why the moves are scared. I'm going to ask the highest. The Minister of Justice whether it does not feel right that electronic solutions are also fully useful to the home, that if they are to accept electronic solutions, their homes may be allowed to arrive, that the right of property is always respected, whether it is a financial institution or a home. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u43	A respectable president. You can reiterate to 10. g. where it indicates that to October 1, 2020, phone or telecommunications cases and electronic management will be permitted, of course, also to be resistant. They can upload their data electronically. They may be able to participate in the electronic language, although it is only a requirement for a candidate to be present, where telecommunications are used, rather than the other person. I've explained why that came to a conclusion many times. Of course, the committee will look at this and I have little more to say than that the changes are only a procedure in taking part. No increased ability to perform this test is being ensured by the requirements. There are adjustments that guarantee the rights of creditors to pay their dues. We have to make some adjustments. Some of them will be temporary, but they may turn out well, or they may need to be changed, and we want to make changes to the future in this way. There are electronic treatments for Covid and the existing limitations and should be of benefit to all, regardless of the person involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u44	Mr. President. I cut it at the highest. Minister of Justice that this bill had been performed in a hurry. I also see in this report that there was not much time for consultation. Some people are mentioned but not e.g. The police, the district attorney, or anyone in that sector are only courts and members of the community. I do not comment on all of this bill's articles or have questions about all of them. I'm mostly thinking of chapters 5 and 6. and then between 10 and 12. It's too long to go through all of this, but I'm going to start at 10 and 12. par., which others have, in fact, come to. V.E.G. The minister of justice earlier mentioned that this was merely a matter of first thought. Of course, that is not true. The text refers only to the timing. In all the forced sales laws, we always talk about taking the lead, no matter whether it's the first event, the second event, etc., there's always talk about taking care of it according to certain articles. [[Up front.]] Then you have to fix the text in the bill if the meaning is that this applies only to first contact on Article 21. It's a three-way deal. Then you'll have to make a statement, and you'll have to fix it. Of course, this is what worries me. I spent a long time in this sector, decades, never remembering a large crowd of models. My question to the highest. So the minister is, what motivates the government to perform these regulations, I mean, 10 and 12. "Gr., in these times?" [[The president calls.]] What motivates the government to do this during the time of the virus? What makes it so hard to do this, with the backwork I've been pointing out? I could point out something else. What motivates the government to bring this bill now, 10 and 12. "Gr., in these times?"
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u45	A respectable president. I've got to start by correcting what's wrong. A senator says about my words and how he interprets them. I said initially, not to the auction itself, but to the taking and leading of them. That's where this applies, not to the auction itself, it's not coming up on telecommunications. What the hell? The minister, or government, is it appropriate to bring it now? They're just trying to make it possible for the county to do their job. It is only being suggested to establish telecommunication devices, electronic forms and more electronic administrations while there are some limitations in communication, distances, and other activities. It is merely being suggested, and there are no other material changes in the bill. It's completely absurd to me. A senator accuses you of something else, that you're going to sneak something else in. This is electronic management, trying to reduce the system, trying to make it electronic, so people have better options. It is only reasonable that time limits do not expire, there is a need to extend permission so that they cannot be applied if they cannot be carried out during this period. [[The point is: There is a price to pay on the street of demanding workers.]] It is not the kind of streetwork that is being paid or anyone else but that makes it possible for all to do their job at the same table.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u46	Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Then you'll have to fix it with your hearing. In forced sales, there is always a hearing, even at a later auction, and then it has to be fixed. It wasn't a misunderstanding. V.E.G. In the sermon before, a minister said that this is only a matter of first choice, and it must also be defined in the law. [[Up front.]] The words have to be fixed, chief. Minister. [[Up front.]] She also speaks of simplifying the system for the public. It is out of my mind to accept changes that are designed to help or aid loan agencies to attend the home of the people of the country, as it was here after the 2008 collapse of the bank. There is no way that these days will help. That's what I'm talking about, 10 and 12. The bill, not any other articles. I could come to the 5th and 6th. will follow, which is a completely different matter. There's no way this will be done. [[The president calls.]] I was accused of the highest. Not about sneaking in, I didn't use that expression, and I didn't accuse the government of bringing it in. I asked only what was involved in making contributions on paragraphs 10 and 12.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u47	V.E.G. President. What is behind it enables us to follow the instructions given here because of the epidemic. The meeting requests and the distance restrictions that exist require us to respond to, that we go to electronic administration and snacks, come to the county's office so that people do not need to attend all kinds of services that could be attended electronically. That's only what's on my mind and what this bill is all about. It is not toying with anyone or anyone else. Only electronic services are being added in all the cases where this is possible and the number of songs and institutions that depend on me. That's what this bill is about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u48	President. One good thing came out of our last words. Minister of Justice in the past that the bill should ensure the right of everyone, although it does not appear to be in the bill text, as stated in the information given by the National Economic Association on the bill. It was meaning to the Ministers that all seats at the same level were not only creating circumstances, electronic solutions, for the demands, financial companies, it would also be done to make everyone equal, all sweet at the same table, i.e. Homes for the hearing. You have to be careful with the General and Education Committee that it actually returns to the bill. The domestic emissary organisation has a unique organisation in this regard and can then install a General and Education Committee. Let's hope the committee calls them to make adjustments. Then there are other forms of change that matter. I'd like to read the review so that people who listen at home would just be clear about what the Children's Internal Affairs is all about, which, as a minister said, was not spoken in this rapid process, so they did not seek their review, and most others did not seek counsel. The process went so fast. A review issued by the National Institutes of Economic Affairs says today, by permission of the President: To provide either permanent or temporary electronic therapy and the use of telecommunications in various cases, the bill suggests a change in various laws. Where there are wide restrictions now at meetings and communication opportunities, these are reasonable and necessary temporary reactions, which are generally met by the National Institutes of Economic Affairs. It shows that if it's done that way and everyone's sitting at the same table, I don't seem to be against it, even in general. But I'd like to add a little bit. In my conversation with an employee of the household's Habitat Association, it said that the priorities there may not be the best. Perhaps it would be better to start with some solutions, such as those in other countries where forced sales have been frozen or banned. We know that what we're going into is that some in this community are not going to be able to pay back, be in a tight spot, get caught in a home on an illegal sale. Perhaps it would have been good to bring a bill first in terms of protecting your homes from forced sales before you go into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u49	They've offered to freeze loans.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u50	They've offered to freeze a loan, says the highest. Minister of Justice. Not the houses, right? Yeah, okay. I completely missed it. Obviously, I need to take a closer look. But that's interesting, the Minister of Justice says yes. I've already made the offer. Good. I'll continue with the review, with President's permission: Nevertheless, no one will be able to avoid being severely critical of Article 10. The bill on the trajectory and 12 pars. It's about forced sales. Both are worded as having to represent a candidate by telephone or telecommunications system and that this amounts to the presence of a candidate himself at the hearing of the hearing in the sense of the law. There is no mention of a patient's tolerance in this relationship or how to ensure that he will have the right to exercise justice. To some extent, a minister came into this situation earlier and said that there should be equality, both in financial or in the company, and in the homes. They need to make sure they pass into the bill during the treatment of the Committee. So here's what it says, by permission of the President: ▪ Careful inconsistencies with expressions 11 pars. for the execution of local and legal regulations, as there is no such distinction between a candidate and a candidate. This should be taken into account, in line with the words of the minister of justice earlier, that was to be the purpose, that equalness should be. Go on, with President's permission: Also lacking complete implementation of telecommunications in such cases as any telecommunication device can be used, how access to tolerance will be ensured, how the requirements for personal protection, including approval, will be met, etc. I don't believe that a global and educational committee will be able to handle this, and it will surely get the Ministry's support to implement it. V.E.G. Minister of Justice will undoubtedly - isn't she paying attention now? Okay, she's listening. ▪ The third mg is the third. Section 12. The bill was a mess. It calls for extensions on specific deadlines if they cannot be followed because of an insurmountable obstacle, all of which are needed for the benefit of a candidate. I tried to come into this before, but I did. The minister of justice has answered that all should be equal in this regard. But this is what it's like on the bill. I'm just gonna take Minister of Justice to the word, the idea was that everyone should stand equal. If the committee fixes it, it's something that should flow through the council kindly. I'll continue, with President's permission: However, there is no mention of time periods that are useful to tolerance, such as postponement to protest or to present disagreements under courts. This is something that would have to come in - I see that the Minister of Justice nods - that both parties' rights are respected and everyone sits at the same table. ▪ At present, tens of thousands of homes are seeing the complete confusion and very difficult economic situation in the months to come, not just here, but around the world. Therefore, governments in many lands, including the United States, have ordered complete discontinuation of all forced halls until this situation is resolved. At the same time, Iceland's Minister of Justice gives a bill that is directly paying off the street of demandsers to perform the funerals and forced sales in easier ways than ever before and ignores the domestic Aggressor's pleas for government to make sure that not one resident has to lose his home because of the results of the pandemic. I heard the highest. The minister of justice calls earlier that this should be avoided. It would be good for the Minister of Justice to consider opposing and answering her tubal actions to cope with this situation or whether anything has happened that I have missed to cope with these concerns. ▪ The suggestions given in the terms of the bill are simply absurd at this point, not to mention the total undeserved slave service of the candidates and the gross discrimination towards the capacity expressed in their expressions. - It's been shown that this should be fixed. Of course, the Internet's health - care organization emphasizes its requirement for forced sales and makeup with consumer tolerance to be stopped until next year's or at least as long as there are some regulations for meeting restrictions under the treatment of disease laws. - It's interesting to know how to get the top. The Minister of Justice makes this suggestion. The world will have to be assured that their security will be assured in this uncertainty period, and in that regard it is equally important what message the government will send by its actions. This is not only about financial interests but also about the protection of human rights and human health, since long - term anxiety and anxiety can lead to serious health and social problems. The rights to home are natural human rights, especially when the forced sales were after the collapse. The rights of consumers and the rights of the home were very strong and very strong in European dishes created in Iceland, so it's also friendly. V.E.G. The Minister of Justice is the minister of Human Rights in Iceland, so it would be interesting to hear what she has on this matter, whether a home is reserved for the property rights, or whether it is also defended by human rights reasons, such as the European Convention, which has been introduced into Icelandic law, stated and judged by European courts. The home is protected from human rights. In other words, the organization demands that the bill be changed so that there will be at least a divorce by law on how to obtain access or forced sales by phone or telecommunications unless the ability to accept it is allowed. In this regard, legal requirements for personal protection can be considered for the approval of the registered one. It is not acceptable to be concerned that an insistent may be able to become a trustee in his property and initiate an forced sale in his home, with a simple telephone call without approval, and with the purpose of his visit. It seems to me that the meeting will be guaranteed, as the Minister of Justice says everyone should maintain their rights and have the right to the same approach with these electronic solutions. ▪ More than that, the organization demands a 3rd. Section 12. changes so that the expected extension of the scheduled period can also be applied for a period of time due to events that may be related to tolerance and comparable measures will be added to 10. These include postponing a bill for the distribution of goods according to 1st. 51st par. Courts of forced sales and deadlines to search out court solutions on differences according to XV. section of the Treaty on events or following the events of XIII. in the context of the XIIIXIV procedure. a law on forced sales, as well as other deadlines set under that law. And finally, with president's permission: The above items are all the same as in the report on the bill, except taking into account the constitution of a treat-and-registered formula and the treatment of the righteous, so that what it says was being in agreement with a constitution and that the bill could have a negative or burdensome effect on the common people is consistent with the actual content of the bill. It'd be good if it was the highest. A minister would be quick to answer what she, or the government, is planning or whether he has already made sure that he can stop the forced sale or stop people losing their homes, I don't remember exactly how I put it. Is there something in the back of the government about not losing their homes? Rape sales were frozen for the economic collapse and were repeatedly performed. Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, then the highest. Minister of Internal Affairs, then Minister of Justice, took care of this suit. She offered a bill to postpone forced halls. It is now being suggested that tourism companies stay, have nothing to pay. All kinds of bridge loans have been guaranteed and so on to companies. What, though, of homes, that individuals and families do not lose their homes because of going against them? Has a minister intended to propose a suggestion to limit temporary forced sales if it is proved that this is due to the epidemic?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u51	A respectable president. Where it is. A senator makes it a habit to explain what is going on in a side room, so it's better if you come here yourself and say it. What I'm saying is that banks are freezing loans from people who are in trouble. We just see it on the numbers, on the number of people taking advantage of it. Those who have come to include. Negotiations and challenges make use of them. We can also see this in Parliamentations and legal changes at a businessman's office, a lot more pressures. That's one of the main reasons why this bill is being introduced now to help with electronic administration to reduce the proportion of people in the county, try to reduce the pressure. What I have done too is trying to expand my ministry. lunch has been re-opened, there's a longer phone time in the family field, etc. Of course, there is much to be said to be done. Whatever it is. A senator may be giving in to the debt that is now growing to an end is rooted in Covid. It's not like that. Various resources are being assured, the deadlines are being extended, and this is something that the committee will consider. But it is very important that this situation does not stop people's rights, that nothing comes up that makes government, county, or courts unable to do anything and that reduce people's rights. It must not be like that. It is also being met in the bill by extension, by the new time limit, and by other and, of course, electronic services that I find interesting to some members of the Senate. A senator who gave a talk here does not seem to be a follower.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u52	President. The cases that are so far along today that they're probably not in the business of Covid now, but they're probably going to be. It's going to cost the community a lot of money, it's up to 300 billion that we think it's gonna cost. People are about to lose their jobs, and those who make partial compensation are reaching 90 percent of their wages, already 10%, and some who lose their jobs get a lot less. Icelanders are not particularly perceptive when it comes to looking out for it, such as conservative European countries, to have the ability to spend six months or something like that. It is quite likely that many people will face a payment problem that will eventually mean that they could lose their homes. V.E.G. A minister of justice mentions the option for cryopreserved on loans - is there any hole in it? How long should this last? What I'm really fishing for is whether it's the highest. The Minister of Justice intends to make some declarations, such as some other countries have done, perhaps to be careful about it, and to say about them, in which individuals and families could lose their homes and may truly be caused by this epidemic we are in, that there will be some kind of way that people will not lose their homes in forced sales, there are some deadlines, people will be given more leeways, as has been requested for travel services and many others, in order to get on their feet so that they can pay off loans, etc. Is this something a Minister of Justice could at least... See, the example from the collapse?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u53	A respectable president. I would like to begin by saying that everything in government action for Covid is aimed at setting up defenses, of course, for disease prevention, but then protecting homes, people, and jobs, and then fighting to create new jobs and restore their activities. There's a lot of things to consider. There will be more economic and other measures introduced tomorrow at the government. There are issues that are being examined, but it is important that we not put them together with what we are doing with this bill. I've told it here in the last few minutes why it is limited to a candidate. This is because he has an obligation to take the lead, not in others. That is why this article is so. Those who have been present realize that this is only a matter of premium, not of property auction, and is - I can't say it enough - just to simplify a businessman's orders for Covid and the stringent restrictions that exist and to continue for some time, although we will soon see reliefs from those limitations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u54	Yes, a candidate has an obligation to come to court, but do I certainly understand the right to have the natural right to attend, and it will be sure that he will be able to use those rights? [[Up front.]] Nice. I thank the Minister of Justice for the answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u55	Mr. President. I just want to come in to what I feel is missing in this bill. There are many laws being changed because of a pandemic crown virus and are particularly involved in the treatment of politicians and courts. In this regard, I feel that there is no need to deal with the financial resources of payment. They should have used the opportunity to change the law of bankruptcy in such a way that there is no doubt that a pandemic payment could be searched for. If I go to a payment stop like that, there's a legal option here, which may be used as a temporary payment form. It is a relief that a debtor who is in serious financial trouble is able to take advantage of trying to establish a new financial system. As a result, a creditor has a special protection from his creditors during a retirement visit. Thus, a credit agent will not fail to insist that during a payment stop, his property will not be confined, and a debt will not be reimbursed. A retirement term includes the temporary protection of creditors against the Commission's panels. In recent years, only some financial resources have been tried to solve financial problems, but it is efficient and can produce good results. Mr. President. A number of companies are now seeing up to financial resources, especially tourism companies, and this will lead to financial problems and miscalculation. A headquarters and temporary protection from demands can be very effective in these enterprises. An enterprise that only faces temporary financial problems because of unusual circumstances, such as the viral epidemic, should be able to look for ways to prevent bankruptcy. In such cases, therefore, a stop is an important option. Is it true that we are living in a world where we live? No. 21/1191 it is recommended that creditors, both individuals and businesses, who have serious financial problems and who want to try to establish a new financial system can consult a pay stop authority. In a report with a request for a payment stop, including published by the creditor's detailed report on what causes his financial problems, what they represent, how he intends to solve them by means of a warrant for payment, and by whom he has consulted for help. It is, therefore, not simple to request a payment stop and to meet narrow conditions. Then I come to what I think is most desirable in the unprecedented and difficult situations we now face, that it will be simplified in the law, and that the circumstances we are in are in would depend on the conditions we are in. Two. Section 12. The law lists the factors that make it a local judge is obliged to refuse authorization for payment. Thus, if the borrower's scheme for arrangements during a payment stop is denied, no permit or compatible with its purpose will be considered realistic or probable in order to establish a new financial system. In other words, the tip of payment is designed to solve a situation in which a debtor will take certain measures to solve financial difficulties. As in today's community, no action can be taken because of the lack of income, such as the travel agency. It's just waiting for the situation to go, and here tourists come back and they make money into this particular company. We are in unprecedented situations, as I mentioned, for epidemics, and new places arise almost every day. It is virtually impossible for companies and individuals to specify practical measures to obtain an approved payment check as required by the law on the current situation and the uncertainty ahead. That's why it's urgent to get this straight. I asked the highest. Minister a while ago during unsubstantiated queries time if this cannot be simplified, i.e. that a company can apply for a payment stop on the basis of the epidemic. That's when they answered. So a minister would check this out. That's why I'm disappointed that now, when this bill is presented, it's not new to get it in or at least resolve the uncertainty as to whether this particular aspect, an viral epidemic, will depend on the conditions of having a down payment. This is something I would have liked to see on the bill, so I especially wanted to remind you of it here. Achieving treatment is a means by which many may be useful and would be relatively simple if a virus outbreak fell under the conditions for it. I believe it is extremely important, Mr. President, that the government carefully considers this and makes the change that could have been made in this bill as soon as possible. I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister of Justice to do so and to hope that we will soon learn of it. In this discussion, there was a recommendation given by the International Habitat Association, which will be expected in the form of a review when the case is brought to the Committee. It presents strong criticism, especially of chapters 10 and 12. which I mentioned in answer and question. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason also correctly introduced an counterargument. I would like to encourage the committees to go completely into the stitches of these two guidelines, 10 and 12. g., and the comments that come from the International Hags Association. These are very valid and good comments that are urgent for careful consideration in the work of the Committee. Finally, Mr. President, I would like to say that there is concern, as shown in the case of the highest court. Minister, the bill has been performed in haste. Sadly, under the circumstances there will be a mistake that will eventually come to grips with the citizens of the country affected by law. We see a home and a company that could get into trouble because there is not enough trouble with this law. Therefore, the matter must be considered very carefully by the Committee and considered all the possibilities, and all the experts that can be considered on the bill. It is urgent that the committees can understand it as best they can and will prevent them from doing this work. Otherwise, I'd like to say that there are certainly things in the bill that are fine, but there are things that I've mentioned and went on, which are very important to cross. Much concern has already been expressed about Article 10 and 12. which I rightly mentioned and have to put it so that, as stated in the warrants of the home's Aggressive Association, it is in fact paying off the street of demanding workers to perform funerals and forced sales more easily than ever. Those are harsh words, harsh criticisms. V.E.G. A minister has tried to answer this, that it is not right. I haven't seen that friend. I specifically mentioned in opposition earlier that there are many countries who have stopped all forced sales until things change. Of course, so should we. We are not to simplify the way to the demands, that is, from time to time. It'll have to be stopped. V.E.G. Minister says it's a misunderstanding. I hope it's true, I haven't seen it yet. But this is something that must be carefully considered on the committee and I wish the Committee a good success at that job. Still, there is a need to hurry, since there is no room for error in that work. Mr. President. We need to remember that our homes in the country are not to be paid for the flu that suddenly hit us. No family should lose their home because of the epidemic. That's what it's all about. Of course, homes are to be protected in these difficult situations, not to pay the street of the demands on them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u56	President. I'd like to inform the president and the council of the state. I was contacted by a seafaring and agricultural minister, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, who said that he or his ministry was not to be placed on a professional committee to discuss that matter, as a quarter of the committee has by its Constitutional role requested that he do so. He said all he knew about was the Covid case he's got when we asked him to meet with the Committee. He and his Ministry didn't know that a quarter of the Committee had requested that we discuss the quota roof and how the fish industry went against the four regulations of the EEA Convention. The second is relatively recent than the first two months of age. I'm going to do more research. I've been trying to contact the head of the committee field. It's got to be okay. It must be so that the committee can fulfill its surveillance role. I will inform the people of the country. It happens repeatedly at a council that things get forgotten and fall down and then they just apologize. But I'm going to take the minister of the word. He'll be able to stand before the committee unless it's government day, so we can finish this. I'll try to figure out where it fell.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u57	V.E.G. President. This is a matter of supreme importance. A minister recommended today and is in many ways positive. I agree with someone who believes that the difference between demands could be better explained. I'd like to agree with those who have said it would be nice to see a bill that would allow them to delay. It is true that what we have to offer tomorrow has not come about because of this type of bad spirit that is afflicting us, but there is a risk of it coming later, and then we should be prepared for it. I'd like to come in somewhere else, too. We've been talking about the freezing loans. I've only been watching this, and I can't see that they're freezing any loans. However, there is a period of payment and payment. But payments and interest are added to the head seat so that those who receive this time and shelter will later have to pay for it. That's what they're doing. It's not really freezing or removing anything. It's only being pushed back. It seems that most financial institutions allow for three months to begin, and you wonder how the situation will be in three months for those who need it today, in view of the fact that there is a danger that the situation we live in today will be extended. It is misleading to me to know how to talk about cryo-conservation, although certain sources have already been paid their dues. I come up primarily here to draw attention to the fact that it seems that this does not seem to be the only point that has been discussed with the Covid virus. There are at least four, five factors, four, five, long - term changes. This is not something that should be valid, as is stated in most of the articles of the bill, to be taken to October 1, 2020. Rather, it appears to be that certain things should be permanently changed. I think it's a mistake to propose a case that has already been admitted to being very rapid and that at the same time it is expected that it will go very quickly through the council because changes are taking place for a long time. I'd like to encourage the committee who will get this case treated to set up a time limit for all of the articles. It is not unreasonable to ask for a longer term adjustment of the law to allow enough time for discussion on the matter at the council and on committees and to call out to more people than is expected to be possible at present, etc. We can live temporarily to speed the matter up through the council because of the circumstances that exist, but I don't feel that there is something being suggested for the rest of our life so as to pass through the council at such speed. It is simple to include all the legal issues involved in this bill with the same date, to October 1, 2020. This should not cause any damage to the matter and would surely help and even speed up its appointment at the council. A respectable president. This was primarily what I wanted to come, that part of the articles is not future, but they have limitations like other articles.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u58	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much. Rather, I'm going to review only the comments I have, hoping that the committee will have information about them, and it may be possible to discuss them and make adjustments, if necessary. I realize that the articles that I have considered at this brief period are, first of all, temporary, temporary. I realize that. Most of these apply until the fall. I also realize, Mr. President, that this is a warrant, this is the county, the police and the judges given authority to take a certain route, to shorten their way, to do things in a different and simpler way, like the Supreme Court. The minister has arrived earlier. This is the induction of electronic management to simplify things and to make things more convenient and not too heavy. I don't make any comments on the fact that things are made simple and efficient, but I'll make notes with that if in the bill there are rules that simplify things for loan institutions at the expense of households. That's what I'm going to do when I find them in these articles, as I asked about earlier on pages 10 and 12. The bottom line may be: I worked on these issues for decades, and I rarely saw that there was some rush in the county offices in the implementation of these activities, i.e. departures and forced sales, with some exception, were generally not rapid. So I asked the highest. Minister: What is the motivation now, in the middle of a viral epidemic, to change these laws, or to bring provisional regulations such as 10 and 12. par.? It was simply my question. What triggers that? I also read in the report that it seems to have been worked in a great hurry. V.E.G. In the public talk, a minister himself said that this was soon to be done and worked in a hurry. Let's hope, and I agree with the Minister, that if there's any bait found in the bill, they'll be fixed in the treatment of the committee. Of course, I pay attention to matters that are quickly made, so I ask: " What is it that drives at the government, to simplify such a process, as in 10 and 12. ... whichhelps and makes it easier for loan agencies to come to the homes of the people of the country? It was simply my question. What triggers that? In any case, it is not a regular order in the county offices when it is handled as a means of transportation or as an underdeveloped sale. Sometimes there are just two people in attendance, a businessman or a member of the county and a company representative, that's the most common. Then we're going to be alone. So I simply ask: What is the motivation for this change? I'm not talking about changes in any of this bill's other articles. I'm here just because of funerals and forced sales. I understand that electronic management is something we will see in the future, and it may be considered and shaped like a bill, but why now? That's my question, why? Then there's blurred vision in 10 and 12. x, whether it was in both branches or in others, where the matter is spoken of foreordaining. The current law on forced sales contains e.g. There are various types of except for the first hearing, there are many other forms of premise. All you have to do is look up the library to see it. I believe that the committee needs to consider whether the wording is needed in this article so that it is clear as to what is meant, whether it is meant merely by the Constitution of the matter, i.e. any of the first steps to take, and this should not apply to any further premises or other administrative procedures in the relevant case. I was also going to talk about chapters 5 and 6. and would have had a word with a minister on those articles. I'm worried about putting it into the hands of judges and police to decide when a report will be used using telecommunications. It may be in good order in some cases, but I make a note that there is a telecommunications agency in the case of the defendant, the defendant in a court case. I have to. That's an exception, Mr. President, if permissible. Here is the exception in front of us on the bill. Of course, if it becomes the law. I wondered about such matters as just treatment and direct evidence that the higher courts have been dropping their fingers into when district courts have taken sides in this regard. I wondered, if a judge decides to take these laws and to keep all of this together in telecommunications and serious cases, e.g., whether a sentence in such a matter could be made backward in the court of higher courts, I can see it, if a higher court thinks that it was not followed by a 70.g. The Constitution, of the just case, was absolutely abstinent. This is only what I have under the law to check, that it is handed into the hands of a judge and delivered to the police at an investigation stage. I also wondered about these two articles: " What is the need? Do the courts or the police that the Ministry spoke nothing to when the bill was written because in a list of colleagues is not a police and a federal attorney, they're asking for this? Did the police ask for this? Is this a problem for the police? What will the value of such a record be? The defendant is in his home, the defendant is in the defence office, or somewhere else? Is this realistic? Who's calling for this? Nor is it rapid in the offices of the detective, usually a detective, a witness, or a defendant with him, and can be held by moving the chairs away. Mr. President. I don't quite see the need for some of these. I'm not going to appreciate the other principles, 1,◯4. par. and 7,9. Look, I haven't studied them enough. All I ask is, " What is this urge for the bill, the articles that I have mentioned in my speech? ' I feel that it is completely unacceptable if there is a need to help or aid loan agencies in handling the requests and the forced sales. I don't want to be a part of such a game, helping out for loan institutions in the current situation where there is a total of 101⁄21 percent and even a larger proportion of people are looking for unemployment. I don't want to be a part of it. I'd rather be a part of a bill that decided to postpone these measures, postpone forced sales, freeze forced sales, and move on for a few months. I would rather be involved in such measures than pour oil on a fire set off by loan institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u59	A respectable president. I'd like to explain again some of the points that clearly need to be explained for the third time to some members of the council about this matter. This is, of course, not a reaction to the economic consequences of Covid. This is a response to the meeting flag and the distance limit. If people had already studied the recommendations made by a D.A. and the State Marshal, it would be clear that these rules are not just about those in the same room but about everyone in the same room. They also count employees. We see the challenges the politicians face, there are only ten people who can enter each time in the county's capital area because there are employees in the same space. Hence, we need to act, and as a result, the politicians have made a special request that they be able to carry out their duties as they should. Other decisions for the protection of people, protection of homes, economic resistance are made by the government, another matter. There are some ways in which people are being given care to carry out their assignments, which, of course, are changing many laws. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson felt that some of the activities that are permanent should not be. In particular, I would like to say that there have been long - term examinations in the Ministry of Justice and Justice, and I have been listed as a list of the changes needed to help with electronic procedures. There are changes that are likely to take place in order to become permanent. These are changes such as e - mailing the death certificate electronicly between parties, that it can be electronic, all electronically except the only hand that needs to be done. This is a change in adoption laws that, in exceptional cases, an electronic approval may be accepted and a change in alien law that the person applying for a visa may sign electronicly. These are all to help and help people, to improve their ministry. That is what the management board should always do, trying to improve, simplify, and speed, and the system is not in the way. I would have intended that the Central Party would support such suggestions, but clearly it is not and it is not quite difficult to cope with positive electronic changes. I would object to the proposal to keep these regulations for temporary purposes. If that is the conclusion now, I will bring exactly the same changes again, the first four articles of the bill, which have been over them for a long time. There is a need to change a lot more laws so that electronic forms are equal to the others, and we move more into electronic administrations everywhere. The other changes are in the fields of justice, which are the exception of the administrative field as determined by the IX regime. section of their laws and special handling procedures. Thus, they are presented in temporary requirements, and such changes would need to be better considered. It'll be interesting to see how they're going to turn out, to take this bill. There are certain rules. But the police were consulted, even though they were inclined to make that clear in their consultations, I see. It was a consultation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Presidency, the Court of Justice, the districts, the Foreign Institutes, and so forth. This bill was very effective, although it did not take as long as many prime radios and did not take government advice. It was all emphasised on finishing the bill but doing it well and good work and checking with all the people that were thought to need it, turning the changes to a number of sources. Then there's what I have to correct here for the third time, i.e. how electronic it gets. Hv. paritaprevir It seems Karl Gauti Hjaltason doesn't understand how the hearing is taking place and who's in the county office and who's not. The premise, start, start an auction, will be held in the county office, which is being offered to do electronic or telecommunications. What goes on for itself will not be electronic, and it will be much more complex to try to do that electronically. Of course it's going to be a normal procedure, so I think that's what it is. A senator should understand this now. Then I want to reiterate that the purpose of the bill is to do only normally in normal matters, but with electronic equipment and bridge space because of the limitations of the values in force, but also make permanent and important decisions that are needed to clear out the restrictions on signing or writing forms. There are also important changes to the future and in terms of all the changes we are making in our digital Iceland project and invest more in electronic services that will save the country many billions. I hope that the bill is well treated by a General and Education Committee, ending a very positive and necessary change because of the situation that exists, but also because of increased emphasis on the importance of electronic administration which adds services to people and relief to the county bodies and perhaps gives us the opportunity to do better in the requests there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u60	A respectable president. She was wild, this speech was the highest. A minister who sits here in the side hall, and then comes in a speech chair in answer to other members of the council, complaining that they are making her opinions or putting words into her mouth. That's exactly what the Minister does. She says, "What?" paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson was opposed to the articles he listed earlier and said that he needed a better discussion and coverage. [[Up front.]] I think the Minister should listen better at last when she enters the council. She's coming up with a bill, chief. The president who's supposed to handle the board limits. Finally, when mass restrictions are taken off, the minister comes here and plans to improve electronic management to relieve those who have been working with a number of people, when there are a few days to ease their limits. Why didn't this bill come here before? What exactly has the minister been doing? I don't think it took all this time to make the few changes that are involved in this bill. How the minister responds is quite remarkable. She's gonna come up here with some stowaways in this suit and she's gonna sneak in some long-term change when we're running a case through a case connected with the Covid incident and then she threatens the senators saying, "Then I'll just bring it back." Of course, if this cannot be changed, the minister will bring it back.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u61	Come on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u62	But we must take that requirement to the highest degree. Ministers that it is time to review the changes for a long time, that they may have more time on the committee. As a result, it is completely offered to the Minister if her bill is delayed at the council because it has changes that are long beyond the bill. The committees need guests, such changes need to be overhauled, they need to be talked about. No one is talking about the fact that humans are against them. But for information to the Minister, some of us here want to discuss the matter at the council and do it carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u63	A respectable president. Interestingly, it is not said that the matter has not come in quickly and that it has come all too soon and has been worked in way too quickly. Of course not. When the case was won and all the points were raised that may arise, it was a challenge. There'll still be a recommendation about two meters away. There will still be some long - term limitations, as the government has suggested, and therefore this is important. It is absolutely possible if the council decides to temporarily make these minor electronic changes, it is important to reduce the number of people involved in it daily. These changes also matter, and if they become temporary now, they simply make other changes and there is no threat. It's just a fact and the answer to a question why. A senator as to whether all of this could be temporary. That was my answer. I said, they've been a little longer. These changes as well as other changes in electronic services have been considered highly emphasised on all problems. I was only informing the senator of that and no need to call it a threat when I bring the facts about the changes I am making for a long time. If they need more overwork, okay, to turn paper into electronic forms for people. I believe that the changes are very well thought-in and not necessary to worry, but if the members of Congress think so, they will have them for a short time and not for a long time. That's entirely up to the council, since the bill is brought to Congress. I guess the committee will take the matter into consideration, and now take the time to discuss it and what adjustments can be made, if any, and if the committee thinks it is needed. However, I believe that the process has been done so that the changes proposed to become permanent have been carefully examined. And that's what I was saying. Senator. He put the words in my mouth that everything had been worked in a great hurry but then also complained that it had not come in here sooner. [[The president calls.]] The bill was not submitted earlier because the changes needed to be done successfully and at the request of the districts in the country where a large number of people go to them every day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u64	A respectable president. I may be losing my calcium level, and there may be a considerable chance that I'm becoming paralytic, much older than I am at the highest level. Minister and maybe not paying close attention, too. But I don't remember saying that this case was worked in a great hurry. I might have said that. Others have at least Say it, top dog. Minister. On the other hand, I keep it to myself, a respectable president, that bringing in this matter at a time when it's time to lose the size limit, I think it's a little convenient. This case should have been inside the council a long time ago if it was so important. However, it is fine to hear a minister now say that the council can set time limits on all the branches and that a minister will not grow old, for it is the council itself that controls it, not the minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u65	Yes, that...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u66	Of course it is. Let me encourage the minister to listen to his second speech earlier. I have to apologize to the president if I've been misheard, but I didn't hear any better than the minister's actually saying that if the council was going to start messing with this case, she'd bring it back later - and, of course, Ministers will. But there is no need to have any threat at the council, as was the minister in his speech. Then I just hope the Minister is doing well in his business.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-20-91.u67	A respectable president. Hv. A senator said and suggested that these first four articles of the bill are also temporary because the matter was worked quickly. I don't know why they should be temporary, anyway. But that is what came out of the question. To that end, I was responding by saying that the work we saw in these articles had been a lot of work. The only way we can continue electronic changes is to remove obstacles. Many electronic changes have been achieved by regulations and electronics in Iceland without any changes in law because the legal barriers have not been used. It hasn't been in the law that there is a need to be on paper or to hand out your own hand to form, and that's the change we're making right now. Many form forms have come into Iceland.is, which are just the same as these four articles indicate, which has not been required because the obstacles have not been prevented. This is merely a process of removing barriers for important things so we can start here a better electronic administration, and I'm sure that's okay. I'm happy it's permanent and I'll suggest that much more items in Iceland will be electronic for the next few years.
