ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u1	V.E.G. President. I will first correct myself from earlier in my speech. I said there were 8% of the bus users in the capital area, but there are only 4%, so it's being maintained. And to put this into context, it is said that 40% of the population would be desirable if bus trips are to be met or paid. In order to keep things going, we're talking here as a political arrangement for transportation, from five to five years, and then a 15-year long-term plan. When choosing farms, there are countless factors, and the most important factors are undoubtedly access to education and health care, which, according to definition, constitutes the fundamental legal services that will not be impaired without law change and in this relationship are a key issue of transport in which they focus on the security of the population wherever they choose to live. At the council members of the Central Party, a synonym suggested that Alexander's airport be set as a reserve airport. As if this is what I'm doing, it's basically a matter of security. It has been shown that it might be good to have one more backup airport, i.e. A airport that meets certain conditions. Today, the course is not built as a backup airport, but I'm pretty sure that if it is placed in the range needed to meet that requirement, it must be strengthened. It can also be said that geographic ground has a great bearing. Another important airport is the Northground airport, which was taken through, as it were, and dedicated in 2017 or about three years ago. Clothes were placed on the track, and the sound of flights was made up or set down. The distance is 1,000 m long, and the modern North-earth airport is very important to the Easterners. Davíð may have won Golíatur, since it can be very difficult to get reformed at my airports in the country. In cooperation with the State, it was accomplished with the local people, and the field is important to the East, as I said earlier. He's thought of primarily as security and hospital airport. The District Hospital of the East is at Nessús, and it is important that an airport be near the airport when patients need to be transferred by flight. Previously, there was a Northground airport, and such a stadium is not at all ideal for the modern - day medical aircraft, and this is especially due to a stone attack. At that time, the course was often unacceptable for a quarter of a year because of an aura, so Davíð certainly won Golíat, as I said. Of course, it took effort, but the cost of construction at the runway cost some 150 million. K. The government paid about half the cost of it, but the other half of it was the Far East, Ness shop, and the Filtering Corporation. Then there was the construction team, the district construction company, and the rural society that ran from the expense of the sound of the sound of the airport. It can truly be said that transportation is all about when we are discussing basic services, where we talk about legal basic services and access to it, as I started this talk. It is very important that we make sure that the airports become this dense network so that we can keep up with ourselves all over the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u2	Madam President. I was going to give a little more attention to the charges and start by quoting the Hjaltason that appeared in the core, where I was going to review the propaganda campaign that he seems to be running with the city line. I'm just going to read his article that's pretty long. He says here, with permission from the President: To further explain the single - side propaganda of the city line, it is good to consult the site of the city's website, which is preserved at the local community in the capital area. It states: The urban structure is in line with what is going on in the countries around us at about the same size as that of the smaller urban communities. This is a misinformation as this applies, e.g. none of us for Great Britain. ▪ Each Norwegian city has a size similar to that of the capital area is working on comparable solutions or has already taken them. This claim is almost true. The most abundant vehicle system is due in the Stavger area. It is started and completed in 2024. Then the cumulative duration of Busveien, i.e. EU Membership for the fast cars, 50 miles [50 km], and it becomes a record of Europe Compared to this, the city line will be longer than that. So we're making everything more expensive and bigger and bigger than anything else. Go on, Þórarinn says: The estimated cost at Bushsveien in Stavger was comparable to the estimated stock costs at the city line, but the latest plan is up to 170 billion ISK. Then he discussed roadtolls in the capital area in which he gradually explained how to adopt a roadtoll, called remuneration. And he says here, by permission of the President: In December 2017, when a project manager was preparing for the city line, it revealed in the morning newspaper that Bussfish in Stavanger was one of the main models of the city line, I soon began to suspect that there was a prelude in the capital area, although it was not for public reference to this possibility, so I know until November, the result is learning something. As a result, you wonder when you first came up here. There is an old story about it, and, of course, the snowfalls are a little far ahead of their time because they were the first to record charges. I came across a story from a book entitled Myths and Legends, published in 1899. It says that on a course of charges, but a Grani of Grani once tried to do so with dire consequences, with the permission of a president: ▪ At a place of a river's ridge (a firm place) lived in the old farmer Grani name was Grani, he was both greedy and rich. The Alpha Road lay around his estate a pore of dirges, which is now known as the State Hall, and is about to pass through this road, which is to the west under the glacier, or to the river valley; the very mass of which is the merchant of Óafsvík and the Boing, and the trades of the west are to the far west at Šposis, called Hjallarveron, Cheflaví, Oofsavour, and Brimils. This Grani now pretended to be able to make a lot of money, if he would toll the road; therefore, he offered a very large garden from the sea to the water of Longs (water). He had a gate in the court where the way is; and he didn't let anyone go, except those who paid Granatol. It is light by all the hairs he has been, but the evil men laid hold on this, because they gave her to Grani her husband; for some morning he was found dead, hanging at the second doorpost of the garden gate. Since then, there has never been a custom. It is easy to see the gardens of the apples, that he has been exceedingly tall and thick, and its leings about 300 to400 bosoms. So it is not a new idea at all, and the shoals of others are taking up new tax returns, as this story says, from the book Myths and Legends, compiled by Johndeel's Jón, Þorkelsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u3	Madam President. The existing policy plans have been in the affairs of the council for quite some time. It is so remarkable that the second discussion about the two has the highest value. The secretary of transportation cannot be seen to be here. Not that I'm sure it would have been a great help, but he hasn't seen it. In contrast, there is something else that I've been thinking about. It ends with some point of view that these two plans are expected to be settled and to vote for them and to disseminate them from the council. But what I've wondered about is that the Independence Party does not speak in a single voice during this discussion. Here, earlier today, it was. paritaprevir Andersen gave us a fine talk in which she made it clear that the plans for public transportation are very difficult for her to see in the city of Reykjavík. And that may be why I felt a little regret that the president, who is now seated and who is one of the foremost expert at the Independence Party on public transportation, could not be due to her being on the President's chair participating in the discussion with us tonight. It would have been very interesting to hear her opinion of her colleague's talk. paritaprevir It's Sigríður on. Andersen. In fact, it would have been fascinating to hear from more independent people about the spirit of the council in regard to these two programs. And, of course, handling these big matters - when I say a big one, I especially mean the money side - if the largest member of the board is not united in this project. Not that I'm surprised because it's such a thing that it's so big that it's not surprising that people have more than one opinion of it. I've heard, Madam President, from someone in this house that there's something strange about being alone with some particular opinion because me and the media have done quite well in this matter. There are voices that say there's something strange or different about us sitting here on our own, natural with Sigríður Á. Andersen, on this opinion. But I would like to argue that there is no bad thing or that there is a conflict between people and their convictions. In this regard, I'd like to mention that there was only one child needed to point out that the emperor of C.'s history. Andersens was naked, just one child that needed them. And just to go back to the other side of the story, there was the voice of the cryer in the wilderness just one man, Jóhannes the Baptizer. He revealed the news that our Savior would come into the world. So there is nothing wrong with feeling alone, being convinced of something. Some time ago, the middle - class members spoke up about a case in which we were unique and alone. But now a year later, we begin to realize why we were right. I didn't quite expect it to happen so fast, but it's happening right now. I have believed that in this matter, and especially in the end of the city, there will be nothing wrong with being alone and being convinced of this financial thing this time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But now my time is up just once, and I'm waiting for the best. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u4	Madam President. Now it is time to discuss just the cost of a city line repair and consider the cost of such projects elsewhere. In fact, it's very confused how much you think this city line will cost. There were some 70 billion without a clear argument about how it was calculated, but it was now up to 80 billion, and other numbers have been heard. You must wonder if the city that spent half a billion dollars making up one piece will meet up with plans for the cost of building a city line. This project is typical of a project that puts rural communities in trouble, an inside project far more expensive than the proposed one, not only the project but also the business and becomes a lifelong problem, typical of such a project. We can look to the experiences of other countries. As the city line began, men referred to here and there as well as one of the plans for a city line in Edinburgh. It was for the completion of a city line and use it in 2009. However, this city line was primarily designed to take people out of the airport, Edinburgh airport, into city, and back with stops here and there on the way. It's not a very long line or about 14 miles, which is as long as only the first stage of the Icelandic city line. This project was expected to cost about 64 billion, but what happened during the day? Of course, this was reduced in moderation, and the line was not opened until 2014, to open 2009 as I could earlier, and had then been cut short from what was originally planned because the cost had completely gone out of control. Not only did this take much longer than man expected but the cost went completely out of control. Despite the shortening, it reached 132 billion dollars, more than twice what was set up, despite the fact that it had been simplified and shortened, 132 billion, as long as the first phase of the city line here. But then it wasn't over because it was so decided to add a little bit and put a little bit more of that but not at the end of it. It's just that things got out of hand, too, that it was decided to do an analysis, an analysis of what had really happened there, how it had gone out of control. However, the assessment of this forwarding went far beyond the expense strategy. The cost of the withdrawal was totally out of control and has reached a cost of 1.3 billion dollars, the cost of making an assessment of the future exit at the city line in Edinburgh, which, as I mentioned, is similar to the first stage of the city line here. I restate on what I mentioned at the outset: Can anyone think that Reykjavíkurburg, or what it hears, will do this in a more practical way than they in Edinburgh? I don't think that people would be able to claim that we can safely assume that if the cost goes far beyond what is expected, as in Edinburgh, but not just as in Edinburgh, because the examples of urban projects and comparable tasks that have gone out of hand are numerous. I don't have time to follow any more examples than I can do for a president by getting back on the rosary so I can finish this tour of the city's cost, before I get back to other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u5	V.E.G. President. I would like to continue reading on this side of the city line, which says, by permission of the president: The Borg line will be largely paid by local residents. The average home, therefore, will have to make a total of $12 million. In the event of loss of the city line, each household's share in the loss could take tens of thousands more for years to come. Most homes are millions of people. A couple with a total of 200 thousand dollars a month's provisional income have to sacrifice a five - to - ten - month work on the city line. Such expenses can mean a significant decrease in quality of life. But maybe money is not everything, that is, the most precious time. But worse, the city line will waste the time of all the people in the area, whether they use it or not. If you travel in a city line, you will have to spend an average of 15 to520 minutes longer than those who travel in a motor vehicle. An average walk of 500 feet [500 m] to the nearest waiting station, which will take an average of 5 minutes to wait for a car. The bus stops several times, and this will take 5 minutes. Thus, those who value their time will avoid using a city line unless the authorities take action to reduce this much time difference. The easiest way to do this is by stopping people who want to use their cars. This is done by reducing the number of lanes for cars that increase the risk of traffic charm and reduce the number of parking cars, which means that people cannot leave as close as they can. It's amazing that mayor and local directors believe that such plans are an excellent quality of life to the population. If 100,000 people of work and school age lose about 15 minutes a day because of these plans, they lose nearly 1 million hours a year. If we spend every eight hours working at 12,000 bucks. equivalent to the waste of time of about 12 billion dollars. every year. Of course, this would not all be a loss of work, but waste would be enormous and would affect the population in some ways. There's claims that the city line will reduce traffic accidents. Actually, I haven't considered what that means. Yet, it is obvious that in a city linecar only the driver receives a seat belt. The passengers will sit loose in their seats or stand while the wagon is moving. This is a dangerous arrangement, and passengers can be very hurt by the sudden brakes of a car, not to mention the crash of a car. It's funny that passengers don't have to sit in their seats while a wagon is moving. Maybe that's why the city's efficiency is shrinking too much because the stop would take a lot longer. So this is where the safety of passengers is sacrificed for practical purposes. In recent years car producers and tech companies have eagerly invested themselves in the development of cars that do not need drivers. The goal is for fleets to compete with self - controlled, efficient, and eco-friendly cabs to compete with their private cars, cabs, and public cars. Fewer will choose to own a car, because it will always be possible to obtain an inexpensive shuttle with a self-controlled taxi. So the demand for public cars will shrink but not increase. It may be more practical for rural society to stop the business of public cars than for subsidies to drive with self - sharpening cars. The 1,75,150 billion who are expected to bind in the city line will be of no benefit then. In addition, billions will have to be put in order to remove recently built urban bases, to dispose of large city line particles, and to re-open urban areas for public traffic. V.E.G. President. I wish to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u6	V.E.G. President. When you look through the Commission opinion of a considerable number of parts - that's well said and well over the transport program or what we're talking about - you start to wonder how much of the transport is going on in the lives of the people of the country or in the lives of all of us. I'm not sure that everyone realizes the amount of money in transportation, transportation, infrastructure. The members of the greater section, as well as the latter, show that the road system, although we only talk about it, is the largest investment or property in the state. It is estimated that the need for investment is nearly 400 billion. 400 billion dollars is missing. so that the road system is in good repair. The need for investment is such. At the same time, the main focus of the government seems to be to create some giant phenomenon in the capital area called a city line. In fact, there is something that is trying to create other names for this, expected to distract, but let's call this a city line. At the same time as it is known that the need for financing is this, the administrative body, with the support of several other classes, will try to bind the hands of a government fund in the next few years to some tens of billions. It is even so that some of those who support this and all that is connected to it write on the left hand not to collect speed and traffic costs but to be against them with the other hand, so to speak. This is a conflict in this case. Then you wonder, " Is this not the situation that comes up when the funds are empty? When it is clear that the project is well out of plan - and Mrs. President, it will be carried out on the project as planned, it will be far out of plan. ' I'd like to repeat it so that this can be included in the Senate's data: The project will be far beyond schedule. Experience tells us this, and not only the experience of road work or similar assignments elsewhere - I mentioned it in another speech earlier tonight, that a job done in Stavger, Norway, was to cost 50 billion, to remind me that it was, but ended up in 200 billion. The one calculated in Iceland as 1.2 billion, if I recall correctly, was 33/4 billion in Norway. Why don't people learn from this? Is it just that it's sitting down and saying, "Hey, now we have to make this city line. We're going to figure out, and we're going to calculate all the resources that can create a profit without necessarily wondering if the project is practical. It has also been pointed out here tonight that other data and research show that such projects are probably not nationally practical. No, the state is going to bind tens of billions, it could end up to over a few hundred billion in the event that the project cannot be completed, if it is necessary to prescribe the forward drive to the state's budget. That can't happen. This is mainly a task that the rural communities, especially Reykjavíkurburg, have decided to perform, and then it is only natural that they are responsible for maintaining the project. If the result is that the project will be planned, if plans do not work, the other government funding on other projects will be affected. There are talks on the great need to invest in the road system in the capital area, to make needed ones, and to use the private car to travel from one side to another. There is also a significant need for investment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u7	Madam President. I'm going to continue my coverage of the major transport projects in the Southlands, which have been sent away by the Southern European Union. The result was a report by the Transport Committee, and there we find a number of interesting features. The report is well - equipped, and it is important to benefit from the transport program we are considering right now. I concluded that it is necessary to promote law enforcement in this area, that it is more visible and more centred in the South, such as Viking, Kurdor, and the Eagle. Then it has large and financing new projects, such as the Elbura Bridge, its way through the Hornground, and its tunnel through a mountain of testing. These are projects that are very profitable and important, as is emphasized by the organization. This may be the case with moderate charges in part or entirely. In fact, it is yet to be replaced, and the emphasis is that there can be another way if one chooses to do so, so that they do not have to pay the price and drive the way it goes. Strains and trajectories that are not yet bound by fragments - it is very important to plan to improve them and to get additional funding for building and maintenance. The Malar Roads, based on the Slurmates of the Southern Country, have a total of 452 miles [452 km] and 414 miles [14 km]. So you can see that this is a very important project, and it's urgent to get a stringed wear on the dirt road in this area. Given the current current budget, it will take 75 years to complete the binding of broken matter in this way. Everyone sees it's time to make a special effort to fix the dirt road and, in fact, it applies to all parts of the country, not to mention the West. In addition, the organization emphasizes the importance of securing a strong water supply in the land - island sea and maintaining an open port throughout the year. This is of vital importance to the Western society. The same goes for the Pacific Harbor harbor, I've talked about it before, and The Gryns of Oreal and the Horngrounds. The network also stresses change of cost, i.e. what we have to repair the defenses from 60% of the state and 40% of the countryside to 85% and 15%. In this context, special attention is given to the maintenance of the Garth on the South Fjords of Hornfjords, which transforms a barrier into the Onestolic Rock, to reduce sand dunes into Grynnslin on Lake Hornfjords. This area, which is largely built on fish industry and exporting fish products, is of natural importance. In addition, the European Union in the South suggests that the rural communities in the South are pioneers in green transport in Iceland, as was done by the electricalization of authorization of authorities that has only worked beautifully, pointing out that public transport needs to be supported. The network reiterates the importance of public transport in the South and the development of the national community to Vega - making organisations must ensure that the services are not affected either on the contrary. [[The president calls.]] Madam President. I did not have to go over these points permanently from the sunnian countryside in terms of transportation, so I would like to be reassigned to the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u8	Madam President. We are faced with a discussion of transport and related matters that there are plans to spend tens of billions of public funds for performances that do not appear to be well defined but that appear to be intended to improve public transportation and to provide bus transport under the motto red carpets for the bus. There is an article by the author who has an education in this field, he is a traffic engineer. He has been educated at Cambridge University, at the University of Technology in Copenhagen, as well as at the University of Durham for his own business education and research. In this article, this writer says things. He says it doesn't have to cost tens of billions of dollars, the goals these programs aim to achieve, as he put it, by means of a few billion. He also says that between 2018 and 2018, the cost of the project has increased from 70 billion dollars. 80 billion dollars. This is an increase from year to year, Madam President, of 14.3%, so you can see that it's all floating. Why are we talking about this assignment? Why does the Independence Party work out to spend 50 billion dollars in order to finance some of the Union's campaign campaigns and groups in the city of Reykjavík? Is this as responsible for the treatment of public funds as you can expect? Madam President. Where is the practical cost plan? Where are the answers to the viewpoint held here by a significant man, that this goal can be achieved for several billion instead of tens of billions? Where is the interest analysis? Where's the analysis of the current costs? Madam President. Where's the city line management plan? What is the cost each year? What's your income? What are the directors of this city line? Why is there so much fog in here about any charges? Why is there any hurry - ups? Who had previously heard of hasty charges? What kind of march is it from a group like the Independence Party, who introduces himself to be responsible for government affairs, to perform in this way, to acquiesce billions of dollars in this project with completely vague basis for cost, some right-left speech? Like what? paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, mentioned here in the hall, is talking about some fees, either east or west, at least Three primes to the high Council. The excellent author, who is responsible for the promotion of all kinds of propaganda, points to the site of the city line. I don't have time to track these examples as worth, but I'm asking the President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u9	Madam President. I may not have intended to speak in this public talk about a road payment or what has been going on here recently, but I have been talking about it and an advocate of the Independence Party in Transportes in the capital area commending the failure of this agreement with the state and neighboring communities and Reykjavíkurburg, the parties involved in the contract. I understand that. I can appreciate that when they experience their presence under the siege of conditions that have been here in the capital area in the past few years, i.e. that there is a complete construction stop, and that does not work or run in any of the situations that look around for years. The neighbors, many of them, I'm not going to mention all of them here, have naturally experienced themselves in this section. The majority of the capital city's attitude toward transport is not affected by transport, since for years nothing has been allowed to be done by their superfaith on public transportation. Of course, there was room for them to perform experiments with the State's strength to seek to promote public transportation with no success. Then this extremely fine idea comes to clear out the neighboring communities and say to them: Now let's get on with the road around the capital. One by one, the neighbors got a job to do, they ought to make an improvement here, and they're gonna have to make different corners there and here. Even the channel of swimming was mentioned, which has now been completely banned for decades, which, of course, is surprising to all who have observed it. However, when it was promised that they would be started on foot, they may have been asked to move to and from work at the normal time during those short distances in the capital area. And what was the price, Madam President? Of course, it was a wonderful idea for the majority of Reykjavík's people to release their neighboring communities from these military districts by allowing them to accept some amount of money that was not now large to a so - called city line, which as well known, and that has often been shown here in discussions, is designed and developed and nearly monthly changes in how it should happen. Of course, it was a small price for neighboring communities to get easy transportation around their community, and they paid for it. This I and others have called a ransom from this campaign. They paid for it. The most amazing thing about this story I'm trying to tell is that the government of three categories, not all of the city's city council in Reykjavík, is bringing these classes into this trap bound for both eyes. They would pay the bill of this, really paying the ransom for those members involved in this contract. It's really amazing, Madam President, and it's like a theater ride, maybe I'd like to mention it. If city lines are examined, how remarkable it is that all these fine people were to walk right into this trap and pay the ransom price for the greater part of Reykjavík so that more things could make their dreams manifest!
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u10	Madam President. I'd like to go over the Reykjavík airport for a few minutes. As everyone knows who has made a agreement or a meeting law with the city of Reykjavík for the past few years, you will be able to trust in a contract that the city of Reykjavík has signed. There's been many ways, including. I noted today that the largest building project in the city of Reykjavík is likely to take place for some time in which there was a previously called an emergency road that had been drawn, not just dragged on, but promised that it would remain open. But things did not happen, and she is now gone. There was also an agreement that the national airport would be in the Watermam, i.e. in a contract made by the secretary and mayor on behalf of the state and the city for the implementation of weather research in the Washingun, until this is as good or as better at the southwest corner would be ready for use. The results of this have also been quite small because very recently it was found that the more recently the mayor of the city of Reykjavík had organized the airport in such a way that a circuit was to pass through a cloud on the airport, but in fact, two days later, when this had happened, he apologized for it. Then a representative of Pirata, an executive officer of the government in Reykjavík, said that it had been made, as she said, a trivial mistake and that the road should never have passed through the cloud, such as easy to understand anyone who has worked the way, that people would not normally pass through someone else's property or through a house. However, this may be an example of the fact that the field is about to be severely squeezed, i.e. The south-west or east-west highway, and it's almost certain that if the construction plans become reality, the innovation of the field will be greatly reduced. My belief, Mr. President, is that if it goes the way it looks, you will gradually choke this field - used as a probe is not just an international airport but, for a short time, a backup airport, so jet, for example. Icelands, could have landed there if that's true. True, some recent years have been under attack because the safety conditions in the city of Reykjavík have deteriorated dramatically since then. Is a patrol there, for example. outside of day hours hardly enough and there are other safety features, such as fire management, and in the condition that it can hardly be expected that large machines will land there although there is certainly need for such landing sites to exist if the Cheflavík airport is shut down for some reason, which he has actually done several times, e.g. in the meeting season, and most important, they simply needed rocks to keep the field open, for the weather was not bad in all cases that it was a reason to close the field in another way but because they had not been able to save enough for use. But I just want to reiterate, Mr. President, that this case is in a state of confusion, like very many other things, where the second party of the contract is Reykjavík. It is not to calm down making a deal with the problem because it is a betrayal that has been signed. But I see now my time has just been completed, asking a president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u11	Madam President. After listening to what was Þorsteinn. Sæmundsson For a discussion of the city's city area of Reykjavík, I changed a well - introduced program and continued my discussion about the airport, but I have announced that there are a number of challenges that have been made to the level of the airport. However, I will resist the temptation for now and try to finish my first tour of the city line. I had started discussing the cost and showed how highly Edinburgh's methods have been reported cost - costs. It set up a city line to one hundred miles that was very delayed and advanced in schedule, and in fact, the study at the pre-programming procedure also exceeded the pre-programming schedule, i.e. the cost of the study itself. There's a plan for a city line up to a total of 60 miles. In comparison with the example from Britain, which brought considerable attention and is still being discussed, we can imagine what we will expect if, in some way, we find ourselves in a much larger city line of work. However, it is not enough that the danger - perhaps it is not true to talk about danger but is almost certain that this will go far beyond our schedule - should cause us anxiety, but what causes us even less anxiety is the uncertainty of the cost of operating when all of this is built up and we take on the whole of these devices. As most people know, the cost of bus living is largely paid by taxpayers. Only a fraction of the cost of operating is reached by the sale of the cargo. So, what will be the situation after the city line system is added? Putting down the traditional bus system is not an option. No, that's for a double run. At that time, the bus system, the rest of the street car, is likely to be more inexorable, since the carriages will each surround certain neighborhoods with the goal of returning passengers to the city line, picking up passengers at the bus stop, and returning them to their destination. What, then, will be the cost of operating the whole system? He'll be at least Much more than the cost of operating the bus has been available so far. And he's been great, as we know. The cost of the bus is so high that the government rushed into a balance with business a decade ago and supported the city and still supported the city, more than just Reykjavík, a billion dollars a year. What will be expected of the State when the city line is built? Do you think that your rural society will be equipped to run all of this together or that the state will be in a state ready to say no, no, not beyond, after billions of dollars have been placed on top, even hundreds of billions of dollars in making this? Do people believe that the state will say no, that it must be done even if it can't be fired? There is the danger that this is about to trigger a long - term problem for the citizens of the capital area and that the taxpayers here will have for decades to pay down the cost of building a city line and then the cost of driving this unfashionable double problem when it could be done in a much more reasonable way, as I will begin my next speech and ask the president to put me on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u12	V.E.G. President. The need for investment in the national road system is estimated to be about 400 billion, which tells us that the road system in the country is far behind today's demand for transportation. There has been concern over many years about how difficult it has been for us to cut at the price of investment. Of course, it is clear to me that the conditions we live in here on our beautiful, peripheral land are such that the cost of bringing these matters right is great, in contrast with the population of the country. In recent years, the number of tourists has grown tremendously, meaning more stress on the highways of the country than in 2018 came 2.3 million tourists to this country. Heavy transport has increased extensively, such as fish. Driveed back and forth because of changing circumstances in fish farming and fresh fish exporting. Some years ago, government coasts were taken off, adding much heavy transport to the roads of the country, and so on. The best investment in infrastructure is good transportation. Many young people who are starting a family or persons who are looking for work and who want to move to the country look to the location where work offers. The construction of the land area is better if transportation is done at a higher level. First, I want to celebrate because it appears that tasks that were very advanced in the transport program have continued at times. It is only a matter of rejoicing for the transport board. It is obvious that the committee has been very able to bring together what could be fixed in the transport program set up just before Christmas, as discussed in the preceding articles on this matter. But I'd like to mention here only from my Northwestern district that the Forest Coast and Waternes Road, which were out in the distance as planned, to mention, have come a little longer in time. Likewise, roads around the Valley of Calda and Uxabourg, the Snæfells Road, and the Road of the United Nations are again known. Only ports have been added in the treatment of members of the Committee. In most parts of the country, goats have been waiting for reforms, though much by location. Because I mentioned the construction of the country back then, it's important that port conditions are in line with local needs. The rise of a settlement in many places is based on the rejection of its purpose. The Committee of the Environment and Transport Committee reports that by permission of the President, a reduction in part of the environment and transport committee is: ▪ Other smaller items support the emphasis and viewpoints expressed in the opinion of the greater part that there is a significant need to work on all transport activities and to endeavor to meet the urgent maintenance and new needs in the transport system. Other smaller items stress the priority of transport projects in terms of their practicality, national equality, regional cohesion, and safety perspectives. In terms of funding the roadside, I agree to go to what has been called the debt of financing, i.e. that the Kingdom takes loans to help and speed up projects and that 150 billion people have been mentioned in this regard. Today, interest in history is minimal and is favorable for borrowing. V.E.G. President. I see my time is coming to an end and I wish to be put on the rosary again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u13	Mr. President. I'd like to mention just the information about the transport agenda in Iceland. A business enterprise is a good comment on the plans to move forward, but at the same time worrying that the development of the next few decades, what is stated in long-term programmes, is not enough, seems to me on this review. They mention diagnostics that could have gone on. In question to whether projects are sufficient or built enough for the next decade, spending, according to a five-year plan, seems to be falling by 17% in the real value of 2020,2024. The review points to another, i.e. that the average spending of each five-year period in a 15-year schedule increased by 1.3% per year. It is then set in proportion to national production, which means that cost will be reduced as long as economic growth becomes more than 1.3% on average. The poll says, with President's permission: Achieving economic growth in Iceland over the last 20 years has been 3.3% and longer, this country's HaemoglobinA allows for 2.5% interest. Taking into account how much expenses are spent over the next few years will reduce the amount of transport it can produce by 16% and even more. Thus, it would seem that over the long period of time, the amount of transport investment would remain too small. Despite the well - thought and desire of a transport committee, it is worth keeping in mind this warning business, that if all is taken into consideration, the cost of growth, and the real value of the products involved, it seems that there is a need to add further. Then we will see on page 6. 2, or on the second page of this review, that the Council felt that there had to be a definite analysis of the most important and practical steps needed to achieve the most practical use of funds and financial gain mentioned in the plan. Business advice says that it is only vaguely stated how to achieve this economic and national benefits. Of course, which is quite normal on the business board, it is encouraged to increase the availability of private candidates for construction. Here is yet another warning as we look at how, in the long run, these funds are viewed. In part 2, the committee study says, with permission of the president: It is of particular interest to know that in view of the greater part of the Committee, it is stated that, depending on the transport plan or budget, the need for a specific procedure, e.g. In accordance with the transport contract of the capital area, the European Court of Auditors was given the European Court of Auditors. The majority have been defined as having access to projects and expenditures, including those of the General Parliament. According to the transport covenant. That's why I think it's very important that we try to apply this thought to the other matters we have here on the program in the following days, the ones we need to work together in this transport program. It is very important that this thought also gets there so that this agreement with the Environment and Transport Committee is fully evident, that the Council needs to come up with decisions or projects and expenditures that may, of course, be involved with this transport contract of the capital area. I think it's important that this come out here and I'll go a little deeper into what's behind it. One of the critics of the Central Party here is that it is not clear all about expenses that the transport contract that could be framed in a simple way is seen here from a greater portion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u14	Mr. President. In my earlier talks, I have discussed a report made not long ago of the work carried out in the South in transport. The report lists ten focus points that the organization claims to be the priority for transport in the South, and the focus is all the same. I've been through most of them, but not all of them. Last I concluded that the organization relies on the importance of public transport in the South and says that at the transfer of the national body to Vega, it must be ensured that the service does not interfere with the development and excellence of the event in the South. This report emphasizes the importance of flying transport. Air travel to the Horn and Western Islands has to continue with official support. Under it the mind should be taken here. Flights are important public transport to ensure the access of citizens to a secure health service and a specialised staff not available at home on a long distance. In this regard, it is especially important to keep the patient's flight in mind. Because I specifically mentioned the airport at Hornland, there are many opportunities to improve the situation there and break the runway. It's about 30 meters wide today. Malbika becomes the runway lights, and then the runway goes to a hundred and fifty feet [45 m], which is very important to safety. There are some tools about it and not quite compatible with it among the locals and then Istavia. I think it's very important that in this matter there is a successful solution. V.E.G. A traveling minister ordered a team to try to settle this matter, especially in local opinion and to try to combine these two viewpoints, Istavia's viewpoint and the local people. I don't think that group has turned back yet, but it's not long to wait. I hope that people see the importance of adding and renovating the airport to the Cape because it is an important community at the Cape Hornfjord and also increasing potential options for e.g. travel service. Now there's a plan for building a place to stay, actually I think it's a luxury hotel east of Lon, and the market is more urban, so to speak, and I want to fly to Ref. Then it's very important that the airport take over private jets and larger jets. Moreover, it is important that the situation be improved. These are people who plan to build shelters and other structures at the airport, and they plan a little waiting because they haven't decided whether to make an airport. I hope in this case that there will be a successful outcome. It's very important for the community back east. Of course, there is little opportunity now for tourists and people to try to build this up so that the situation in this area can be used when the tourist stream returns, which hopefully will not be within a very long period of time. I wanted to mention this in particular because it is an emphasis that the local people have put in great detail. As for the Western Islands, I may find it better to do the following, it is important to have official support for the flight. Flights to the Western Islands have always been important and will remain, especially in the case of the disease. [[The president calls.]] I'll find out later and ask the president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u15	Mr. President. When we discuss a transport program, where an important factor is, of course, being carried out here in the capital area and connected with the natural transport contract of the capital area, it is growing so that it has to do with financial resources and responsible management of government funds. I have, and more dogs. Councilmen here discussed plans to leave dozens of billions of dollars in a so - called city line that has good goals to pay for public transportation in the area. But there are serious questions about whether you cannot reach the same target at a lower cost that has been pointed out on an article by a transport expert, engineer, and sectoral economics. He argues that these goals can be achieved by spending several million while the last reported cost was up to 80 billion and had increased by 14.3% since the previous year. We're talking about 2018 and 2019 years. Therefore, in view of the construction experience, especially by the city authorities, it is not unusual to make shoes that the cost of construction could be at least That's a good one for a hundred billion. I allow you to witness here, Mr. President, to the Committee to Re-Elect the Committee on Environment and Transport. The smaller part of a ship. The members of the Central Party, Karl Gauti Hjaltason and Bergþór Ólason. They deal with these factors in their opinion, and it shows that the smaller section makes comments on the proposed financial contributions due to the transport contract of the capital area. The agreement is reviewed between the government and six rural communities in the capital area for planning and funding the development of transport timbers and public transportation in the capital area to 15 years of age. According to one estimate, there is no comment on the part of the agreement that has to do with the extremely timely structure of the local infrastructure, the type of walk-and-wheel paces, and the operation of traffic control. Mr. President. It's the shortest monopoly, the construction stop that has ruled in the capital specifically, and it's not unusual, Mr. President, that it cannot be reached without impenetrablely on the Grand Way, the great vessel that connects the eastern and west parts of the city. It has so strong that the construction stop has not been made to keep people walking across the street safely. Since bridges and tunnels have not been prepared, pedestrians stop by pressing one button, perhaps dozens or hundreds of automobiles with the related energy waste and climate pollution. Mr. President. Other smaller items mention a so - called city line and indicate that all of that work is extremely uncertain, e.g. that there is a need for investment, blurred plans, the fact that no management plans are available, the binding of capital for the long future, the vague extension of trouble traffic, as well as about what is called a persistent over-exploitation program for the use of these methods. It has been quoted and referred to in that regard, and it does not have to be repeated. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to cover a few cases, and I'm going to pray. President of putting me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u16	Mr. President. I have discussed quite a few of the transport contracts of the capital area and have associated with the problems of rural areas in the capital area and the capital area in recent years and even decades. I have also discussed the charges and described my view that the government's perks are a little loose, if you don't mind me saying so. As I have pointed out, there are three cases of government that are expected to be on a different approach and have been thoroughly reviewed as to who these bills are. There are all the basics and plagion proposals that have not been fully paid here, are on the outside, and have been in the discussion for many years. It is expected that three Parliaments, in different ways and in different exports will be due, but all of them are supposed to be pretty vague in this respect. I've been calling for governments to come up with an updated idea in one place so that people could take a thoughtful stand on roads and be allowed to see all government cards. But when it is presented in this way in three cases with a very different approach, I feel that I cannot accept it or sign it, e.g. This transport plan. That is why I even returned. A special party with my partner, huh? paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason. I also mentioned, more joking than serious, that the first road to this country seems to be in traceable. There was a farmer on the Snæfellsnesi, Grani, who collected a so - called Granatoll on the road around his earth. He was considered to be a farmer who was greedy and rich, but he suffered badly. It seems that the roadmen finally destroyed him, so that the toll fell naturally after that. I was going to deal with the surface of a transportation program. In less recent parts of the term, we have declared that over the past year, the latest transport programme here has not been able to prepare better and submit to the council a new land - travel program. We agree with what is expressed in the opinion of the greater part of the importance of the hurrying that transport and rural management. I also agree with a greater proportion that there will be a complete analysis of land conditions in Iceland, where they will be evaluated in terms of national benefits, economic benefits, practicalness, and regional grounds. So we join much of our share in our work around the tunnel. The majority view involves tunnels on more than a page. It contains numerous and, of course, costly advantages. I agree with things there. It says: "The project in the program is a tunnel in the East. I agree with the majority of the objects stressing that geographing in the East will not fully produce benefits unless a project is carried out as a continuous unit making a circle around the country. It says in the opinion: Thus, the second stage, a tunnel between Seyn and the North, must follow the Cradle Passage. In fact, working on the tunnels between South Coast and North Pacific could begin before working on the Funeral tunnel is fully completed. I'll take my mind off this. The list is long, and in many places there are demand for tunnels, and in the case of the movers, however, it is far ahead of us in all aspects of the tunnel. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u17	Mr. President. I saw previously on the central Web site a little story saying: 'The Classies in the press on the transport program Sigurður Ingi son of Jóhannsson.' Although the center is both fine medium and often correct, both statements are wrong. The media is not on the side of the press. Rather, it is here to address the transport plans, but these are not the transport plans of Ingi Jóhannsson because both are his own people, and the result are the two suggestions we are discussing right now. Mr. President. I've been thinking about something to discuss, coming out of this area, what this area is most relevant to, and there are certainly a number of factors to cover, which are most about, as it were, the capital area and the surrounding region. I would like to dwell on the scene I started today, and that is a point that is missing in both conclusions. It's the waterway. As we have seen, in fact, in my speech today that the possibility of setting up the Sunway is severely impaired because the country to which the conquest should have come has been settled, to the sheep who are living there more tightly than you have seen in the past. But there's something else, Mr. President, that's definitely related to the Sunway. It's the fact that from there we have the Sunship. A point was discussed here in the last month, where the Daffy Way was being discussed, and there were two locations for bridges. But I'm in it, Mr. President, that it's not what we need, the second type, that reduces the potential for the Dwamp, which would be a deliberate step for them and for this whole area. So I'm not better at it, Mr. President, than people now have to look at it seriously to park part of the Sunway, i.e. Between the Sun Bank and the Grafarvog, in the tunnel. I think it's more true to say, Mr President, that that's actually the only way that's left. What distracts them, and in fact all these routes, they are the efforts of the mayor of the more important part of the city of Grafarvogi near Gufunesi. It is so strong that the need was that yesterday, June 17, they were working in the concrete that a neighborhood that is being built into the road, i.e. The sanctuary. By doing so, you are pushing the Roadwayway south or east into a place where shores have been protected. So as soon as you have to park the Sunway, i.e. This smell to the north of Kjalarnes, that is a far cry that has been placed in a protection party of good peace. It will probably take more years to work on how to build a track, whether it can be done at this place, and then how. It's going to end up in an eternal lawsuit. I see I have no more time, Mr. President, and I pray that I be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u18	President. I've been discussing the cost at the city line, first the cost of developing itself, the construction of the machine, and the cost of everything in the dark, the cost of operating, the cost of maintaining a double public transport system, twofold aggressor system by neighborhood cars and a city line. Of course, it should be largely financed by tax dollars, by having those who are not even using their service pay for it at the same time that they are under pressure. Of course, some fare will be paid fares, but experience shows that they will be able to handle such a battle, even a traditional bus system as we already have. There the fare is just a fraction of what is needed to fire it. Still, people will continue to impose an all - public charge for a service that most people will not benefit from, so to speak, in order to press on them and to try to force people to use the ministry in the wrong way. It'll be paid with taxes. But we also see in this program, as well as the so - called transport contract of the capital area and the government, that there are other ways to go at least To initiate this, e.g. selling one of Iceland's most valuable lands, the Land of Legion. Even the bank of Iceland has been mentioned to put into this, sell it to scrap the funding for the project, and, of course, reimburse the local capital area. This government has shown some ideas about new fees, especially in traffic. They are often called green charges, but people in Iceland have long paid for the use of transport workers and their construction by means of various types of payments, though not all of which have failed in the required process, only half in the construction process and the government has taken the rest to heart. But now people are determined to become so presumptuously add new fees, even though they paid much more taxes and expenses for their transportation than they were asked to do in that matter. But it has not been implemented any further than any other how to collect these charges, whether or not there will be any gates in the capital area, on the roads, even more delay, which is an option of some who have spoken for the city line, or whether they should have a sort of surveillance system where a computer monitors where people go in their own car or whether they are cameras here, and where they take photographs of cars when they drive past to charge the relevant amount for having allowed themselves to drive on certain roads or streets. It's a mystery. Either it's because they don't know for themselves how they're going to collect all of this or they don't want to give it up because they want to push the project, put it in place where it won't be returned before it's brought back to the public in what way he should pay it and what it takes to be done. I won't tell you which is more likely. Of course, it is not good if governments have no idea what they are doing. In view of experience, and that is the subject of the next talk, you may feel that this is part of the system structure of this project, which triggers it so that you can't back up and then first learn what it needs to pay for eternity in order to maintain it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u19	V.E.G. President. I'm interested in taking a little historical review and referring to 1997. That year Kjalarnes became united in Reykjavík. Some had said that the city had made a contract there. Why were the Cjalnes being united over their heads? It would have been as if they were united with Mosfellsville. They were probably the right kind of carrot. The yellow root was a waterway that would have linked Kjalarnes to Reykjavík's shortest route. Thus, they would have had easy access to the service of the capital and should have rendered to all the people of the land. There are countless other options. It shortens the way from towns, such as Aranesp and Borgnes to Reykjavík. It is safe to do, and we know in this country that things can happen, and one way to escape is not only unwise but also foolish. One of the advantages of Sundinganes is that it produces a connection with Ginginginganes, which is over 390 acres [390 ha], twice as big as Köldnaland, which is now much in the discussion with an unsound community to establish the structure of transport infrastructure in the capital area. Respect of Köldnaland today may be close to 15 billion. Yet, respect for it can be extended in another way. This is done by reducing the availability of land surfaces, which may not have to be done, since today's supply is small. In today's capital area, it may be estimated that the cost of heat, pricing, and other expenditures of 100 m2 are in the range of 8◯10 million. This means that an apartment price is 201⁄225% higher than it would have to be if enough property was served. Who's paying? Of course, real estate owners and tenants. Everyone knows rent prices come with real estate prices. It's always the public who pays for it. In addition to providing energy for housing, the general public will have to pay for the future building of the city line and its business. Then the question is, Will the phenomenon be used? Several studies have been conducted during travel, and one of the bus trips shows that by 2002, 9% of those traveling on a bus were traveling to school. In 2019 this was 7%. This may give some explanations. One of these could be an added form of telecommunication. I don't know if any patients who need to go to the Land hospital will go to the city line. What's the argument for mayor Reykjavík's fantasies? He gives an example of cities of a similar size to Reykjavík and specified in a report. Odiné, Adar, Álaborg, Le Mans and Angers. All these cities have a light system. These systems range from 121⁄2/14.5 km. The city line of Day should be 40 miles. How much it costs in the end, no one knows, not even Dagur Eggertsson Emgersson. A city line in Helsinki is sometimes named, but rarely, that system of modern trolleys is widely used. Because it is used as the largest central area in the city, it is not narrowed down, and it has its right to life, where car traffic cannot be stopped and people have a choice. The area in which most of the buildings are built is large, probably 30 m wide, under the system, and enough space for cars to travel. As the media closes up inside, the system syncs with roadways, but here is the beginning of the wrong end. V.E.G. President. I see my speech session is over, but I haven't finished my speech so I wish to be put on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u20	Mr. President. I told earlier in a speech that I was going to discuss only certain aspects of the committee that appear in my part of the Environment and Transport Committee, which are being referred to in the opinion of the committee of more parts. It is, in fact, there. As part of the Agency's work, it is important to consider that, at any given time or time, through the Council of II, certain aspects of the transport programme need to be carried out in order to achieve a specific purpose. This, I think, is important, especially since it refers to the transport contract of the capital area. Although we criticize certain aspects of the transportation covenant, many of us here, there is certainly not everything that is criticized. It belongs, for example. for the portion of the agreement made with the rural communities involved in the construction of infrastructure in the capital area. It is very important that for that assignment, it will be attacked as soon as possible, and you are only concerned that once this city's line is nailed, as the planks seem to be, more emphasis on it than on these tracks so important to build up. I came to that, probably in my first speech, how important it is to ensure that the flow from the city can travel quickly. We cannot forget that, and we must realize that we live on a volcano island. We live in this region that nature, whether by volcanic eruptions or by earthquakes or by other means, can act in harmony with nature. We have to be able to remove urban areas quite quickly if necessary. Of course, we hope that no such thing will happen, but we need to be careful, as we have seen, when we have been overwhelmed by the disaster of the Covid epidemic. In view of a lower share, these initiatives are specifically referred to. It also includes the importance of making aggressive walk-and-wheeling footpaths with a struggle for traffic control. It is also very important that those who choose to walk and cycle - that the flow is also well - fixed. Of course, and I'm sure you could do more of it yourself, very healthy to cycle where you're going, and very important that these projects are taken into consideration. But it's this factor that's facing a city line that's unclear, I agree with two smaller objects. There is a frame that has been drawn up, but the frame, or what is inside it, is very vague. It has been repeated and requires information on city planning. How will those who are doing this run this battle? It has been observed that public transportation does not depend on today, and it is hardly going to be done with these great investments. If it is intended for the State to take on the huge cost of public transportation in the capital area, it needs to be discussed in particular. I think it is very important that we apply the thinking of the majority of the committee, when it comes to the warnings and the coverage to take place at the General Assembly, to the other issues that are so indirectly related to the transport programmes involved. Other smaller items make up certain factors that he makes specific comments about. It speaks of investments, foggy plans, the fact that no management plans are available, as I once did, and then there are natural skys high costs of the project and the commitment of capital capital, to name some of the comments. Of course, all of this needs to be clear. It's a little bit too early for this city line. It is very special that the state, and especially the Independence Party, be blundered into this modern mayor's pet project. It's very special that people go that way. And in this irresponsible manner, I'm going to allow myself to say that, reflected in the data we see here. I'll review it further later and wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u21	Mr. President. All I want to do is enter the ports and seas, and I take my heart to the evaluation of a greater part of the Committee that improved water defenses are needed all over the country. In many parts of the sea, many of the country's inhabitants have to be protected from coastal areas and settlements, as the above mentioned, but I would also like to add to the importance of protecting ancients and miss that the majority of the items should not mention it. I only came into this situation in the first place, and I want to do a little more research on it. A large number of mines throughout the country are in grave danger from seawater erosion and, especially, some of the seas and seas of the Icelanders from land mines even to the 20th century. These are vast numbers of priceless cultural values that are closer to unannounced and, if nothing has to be done, will disappear into the sea. That's why it's very important to add money to seas throughout the country. Not long ago, a conference on mines that are at risk because of ocean conditions was held, and much of that was noteworthy. In the case of Tamives there are between 60 and 4700% of either disappeared, at predictable risk or damaged. The conference noted that the situation in the Snæfells is very similar to that in Skaveravera, as mentioned earlier. This is not only the site of ancient seas but, as in the case of Smokeyness, with a long period of land demolition the coast has reached the point where smaller areas of land can be affected; farms, towns, hills, and anything else that can be mentioned can be put at risk. I'm afraid the oldest ones there are just gone and sad to see it. I think it's very important for the public to be very alert. Many Icelanders live in a variety of outdoors, carrying the shoreline of the country, etc. and should simply report any damage or danger to the Minja Society. It was published in this Mindy Institute Conference on the importance of marine protection in order to prevent less seawater from reaching sea level that there are about 250,000 minutes in Iceland, and many of these have not been recorded. First, mines need to be recorded, emphasised, and then protected from the seas. Since then, however, the erosion of the sea has resulted in land erosion in many parts of the world and has resulted in the loss of the population and the struggle to survive for generations. In some cases, this also applies to monuments that have been built not many decades ago. Not that we are left standing, nor can there be great value at all. You have to say, as it is, that this group has been neglected, unfortunately. For example, residents have been trying to protect mines that are at sea with sand bags and other things and a nation that boasts about rich history and culture cannot be known for the fact that locals need to carry sand bags to the beach in an effort to save their cultural worth. We have to get on with these things, Mr. President, and make sure there's an improvement in water cover all over the country. Only one storm of storms is needed to cause massive damage, since December 2019, suffered significant damage to coastal gardens in the South Sea Ocean, for example, and in many parts of the Rhines Peninsula, and in the city of Rhinetown. It takes just one big storm to make a great deal of money go to the courtyards. I'll get in more afterwards, Mr. President, and kindly ask to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u22	Mr. President. I discussed the last talk on a number of viewpoints presented in the Committee under Article 2 of the Environment and Transport Committee, and I'm just going to grab it down in a few places, but the smaller part is in place. The members of the Central Party, Karl Gauti Hjaltason and Bergþór Ólason. In their opinion that it is completely unclear who will own or after an incident, they gain money from the kind of space that is formed if the Grand Way is placed in stocks, as it is said, in part. In fact, Mr. President, these ideas on a grand racetrack may not have been logical or well established. I don't remember seeing a cost-and-use analysis about such a project. Actually, it's a question of what would happen to the land space that would result from such a project, so there are many questions. In view of my opinion, no one knows whether it will be Reykjavíkurburg or part of the community, if it will be founded, we are talking about the official part of the organisation to cover these projects intended to have investments in the transport contract. As mentioned here repeatedly this evening, it is concluded in the minority view that the ultimate uncertainty about the city's management lines, as it is said, has come to pass after it has become a reality and that it is considered to be in danger of being part of the rural community for a long time. In part 2, the committee study says, with permission of the president: ▪ The Party believes that other projects in the capital area that have been receding for far too long will call for immediate improvements and guarantee enough money for them. It has the highest stockways and the Central Party thinks it's right to set a Grand Way at the top of that list in order to give an unopposed patrol between East and West. Such action would greatly increase the security of the inhabitants. There is reason to mention the same in this context as the Way of Rounding and Smokenes. A special project that has long been waiting for and that was for the inhabitants of Kjalarnesi to be united with Reykjavík. However, more than a part of the city's city in Reykjavík seems to have decided to turn aside plans for the Sunway with its decisions and have actually done everything to make the project more difficult and more expensive. It is, of course, Mr. President that these measures and decisions of the city authorities have naturally been found in news and have been reported, especially in the Volvegurar program and decisions, as they say. It is remembered that the road manager will have written a letter to the city authorities that calls attention to the fact that these actions and decisions make the Sunway more expensive and that the number 10 billion is heard in that regard. I intend to discuss further aspects of this opinion, Mr. President, and wish to be registered again on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u23	Mr. President. As a result of my earlier talk, I was talking about tunnels. We live in a land where there are many difficult roads. The land is mountainous, full of scales, and hard winters on mountain roads. Hence, it is far more necessary that we do more on the surface of the soil than we have been doing. Power in a tunnel has not been like that. What's in the Faeroe Islands, where there's a lot more feet of tunnels per person than there's ever been in Iceland. One day, I figure it was worth ten feet per person. We have a long way to go as far as that goes. Of course, it is a rural land and a small country, so it is also understandable. But in my opinion, one of the best transport improvements for areas of heavy mountain roads is to get tunnels to shorten their way and get rid of travel, often during times, difficult and snowcapped mountain roads. I've come to the next thing in my opinion, i.e. A joint project on the road. The majority of people say: ▪ In cooperation, a private agency will handle total, partial, or otherwise take on the financial risk of making and operating a public monument, with a warrant for payment prior to use. A co-worker becomes a national property after the contract ends. Thus, when a transport program was submitted, there were four projects. It was an elf - year - old bridge, and it provided a design and invitation, a highway around the Horny River, but projects are already in place and only need a decision for funding and tenders to continue there with force, then the Oxi road, the lowland road through the Minird Valley, and a tunnel under a mountain of testing, a little longer than the first two projects I mentioned. Of course, instead of having to cross the gap and the other side of the street, it would be a great help for the inhabitants and travelers to get their tunnels under a mighty mountain and this road down in the lowland. It means a lot to get rid of it, and this will shorten the way about. Five miles. A major increase in this road has been seen in recent years, so this is the best part of our business, and in our smaller parts, the plans for the greater part support the greater part of the project. Then two additional assignments are added. One is a waterway, which is a special dart, and I could give some talks on it. Similar to what I discussed earlier as to the transportation contract and the city line, there are some encamped areas, such as many other areas in the capital area. There's probably about 50 years of war going on, and hopefully soon we'll see how this angers, Madam President. I'm going to mention one more thing, airport. He's in no less troops than the roads and Dew Road. Thus, it seems that it is a strategy for the mayor to get his way by maintaining a military action in some kind of military environment at the expense of national and national authorities. The airport in Reykjavík is for the whole country, not just the capital.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u24	Madam President. I have previously mentioned in a talk that binding agreements are difficult to make with the city council in Reykjavík. That's even. Because not one of the strengths that work more, in fact, less part in Reykjavík, is in charge. It can be seen best when it enhances the value of a skyscraper's price. It has also occurred in many other places, and today there is one recent example. It is the soil of a village that produces and produces methane. I'm thinking that before I started an active political involvement, I'd have asked questions about the lack of a good client's community to purchase credit and whether it was the right thing to build up the production on the drawing table and the word, this metropolitan plant. I suggested that the bus fleet be evaluable properly because it would be possible to save itself to make a very large network of distributions, since, of course, the value of choice fuels and noncontaminated is highly contaminated, except when it gets into the air. Therefore the remaining things must be burned with fire, so that they do not escape to the air and burn. But when it burns like in a motor, there is very little pollution. It's so remarkable, Madam President, that the scaffolds in the city and the municipal waste in the capital area do not seem to be talking. Hence, the use of metropolitan cars to some degree of sensitivity did not result in any failure, so they even decided to jump to the next phase of a electric street car. I'm not trying to sell it in any way unless that's where our rural communities in the capital area had established a base to produce statistics. On the other wing was one of the team's cooperative partners, Bus. In some cases, I believe that even the same executives in both companies were. Yet, these two creditiles have failed to communicate, making a success of teamwork. And why do I say this, Madam President? Yes, that's because the case we're going to record next week, after we've discussed this, is about a contract on transportation in the capital area. You have to say, after what you've seen, that the mayor of the city of Reykjavík is successful in financial matters and that his attention span in making plans scares you. That's why, Madam President, we have had doubts about trusting these numbers, the nearly 50 billion that are designed to establish a so - called city line. In fact, we are very certain that the figures do not come about. One is, as we have seen, Madam President, that there seems to be no strategy for this development, if you might call it. This makes us more cautious, so we want to discuss the matter and get to the table all the information we can get well available. I see now my time has expired, so I'm reassigned by the President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u25	Madam President. I have now considered the cost of building a city line and the uncertainty involved in the cost of living, i.e. The cost of operating. I have also traced the ways that have been referred to to to as a result of these costs as a whole. They are versatile, but many of them are very vague. Then, as I mentioned at the end of my final talk, it is my turn to think about or to try to explain why such things happen. How could it be that the Independence Party is going to reimburse a new currency, reimburse the public, intend to sell one of the state's most valuable assets, at least one of Iceland's most valuable lands, even selling banks, and using them to fulfill the Commission's campaign in Reykjavík? How does this happen? And not just any campaign proposal but a campaign for increased consumption control and pressured people who travel on a family car, people who gained insight at the Independence Party for decades, who understood the importance of developing transport and who appreciated the freedoms that people had in the private car, to be able to make their way. How is it that the Independence Party throws it all out of calm and decides to invent new fees in order to help the Continents to keep their election promises? That happened with a system application. In fact, I forgot to mention in this context that this campaign wasn't set up for the first time before the last election. It wasn't the first time that a city line was promised, it had been used as a bill of elections and made corneas and all that, but then nothing happened. It didn't happen until now that the Conspiracy drove this whole campaign: city line, city line, city line. Now the Independence Party was able to finance this because the city knew how to play the game, know how to run the case. Knowing that we are in a system management position, the city could have any assurance that as soon as the situation was systematic, this would work. And then the method, how this happens. But before I get to the procedure myself, I'd like to mention that we're seeing how safe the city is. She's already set up a lot of equipment, a lot of systems, around this project, setting up a city line of projects, recruiting engineers out there outside a publicity agency, creating a new show -- that's exactly what we're doing right now in the House, launching all of this - without the approval of the General Assembly. But the city knows that there's a system control here, and the system will do what its system expects of it. Hence, the city has simply begun to work on this project, although the council has not yet made its decision. How was that done? How did these systems proceed? It began by introducing this into the city's work and connecting it to other projects where the system was already moving. This appears, for example. very clear on this policy on the town line, how the city line project is linked to the building project, which is a second network project; has created a latrine about it, has hired a lot of people to work on this project, makes companies dependent on participating in this game, and the organization is working on, there was. The new project, the city line project, is next connected to the other system project, build-in. It is thus clear that the structure of a structure is essential to a city line, but city line is also an essential structure. That's how the circuits start, connected into the existing system, starting to build a discrepant around... - Madam President. [[The president calls.]] I'm just beginning my explanation at the city line system, so I'm asking to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u26	V.E.G. President. I'm going to go back to my final talk, where I was speaking of a city path and a city line. First, a city line should be crammed down to an area where there is no room for it, with the idea that other traffic will have its place for existence. In parts of the suburbs, a city line can be established, but this central area may need to take action, such as building a major deck. The amount of time it takes has not been calculated, much less what non-involved space will start when digging in that area. The number of affected animals will likely increase, end the gang and the Thiingholtine of a well - known area where rats are in sewers. During the period of construction under narrow conditions, the existence of thousands of people living in the area will change. The procedure involves interference, traffic and pollution. This has a profound impact on the health and quality of life of those in the middle zone. Reykjavík is on the north side, specifically 64°. It's a utopia setting down a city line because it doesn't apply here. Icelandic winters have recently been bearable in the capital city, but they can have bad years. But only to the neighboring communities of Reykjavík. They've given city support. This project will likely be complex in Kópavogi. Well, everyone knows the planning street there. They must give us some amazing version of the process. The park town is naturally en route, and the line will pass through there without any significant impact on the town. Thus, they will benefit greatly if this is not likely to happen. Thus, the country's largest conservative dens and the main stronghold of the Independence Party are likely to gain much benefit from getting these lines through town, while other citizens of the country are paying for it. But what about Hafnarfjörður? It's clear to everyone that traffic there is way too much. There's something to be solved, but it's not a city line. Lights must be guided better, possibly twice the road, with a large part of the traffic through South American Hafnarfjörður automobiles. Mosfellstown is a special case. The idea is that city line lies through Blanca Park, that land is 90 acres [90 ha], and belongs to a group called Landey, owned by the Institute, one of the banks of Arazon. Thus, the city line of Arion Bank has great interest. The country is highly valued in society's books, and it has great interests in building close to the city line, thus increasing its value. This is possible while local communities maintain a lack of housing. So the city center project is given a strong ally of Arion's bank. I need to mention the sellers too. There, however, is a fine way to handle a bus that works well. Of course, we are to look to energy exchanges, the technology of the future. Cars in the future will no doubt be driven by eco-friendly energy sources. They will become technical, self-driving, and traffic control will be improved. Covid-19 has changed the world scene and no one is sharing. There people see the possibility of working away from home, which means fewer trips. Will this affect public transportation? No doubt. For many reasons, we are on a wrong path. While there is no final application and cost, such an assignment is irresponsible. We have to take in the secondary costs that will fall to, i.e. costs, such as the economic failure of those living near the construction site, the cost of taxpayers, and the sacrifice of foolish waste instead of making good money. V.E.G. President. I wish to remain on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u27	Madam President. Actually, I was going to find a certain aspect of the committee party, but I'm going to have to keep it. I can feel it for the next talk. I'd like to do just as I am and as others have talked about here, i.e. The uncertainty of the city line project and the 50 billion dollars. Until the year 2033, which is due to be carried out on this project. Another smaller section, in its committee study, says that the benchmarks set for implementation have not been demonstrated. In particular, it is noted that there are no up - to - date budgets. And I don't get tired of stressing that it's a responsibility for the general council to agree that there's not much money at all about the government's contributions and commitments when it comes to this project. Of course, it is also sobering to consider that the rural communities in the capital area do the same. Both rural society and the World Council make decisions that will affect the welfare of our citizens and the inhabitants of the community around them possibly in a very decisive way if we land e.g. in the position that this project will go far beyond a plan, which, of course, is very likely. That's exactly what we've heard tonight, except for what we know about community projects, especially here in the city. It's very strange that people are in the position that all this has to do is drive through. It's just finishing it and going on, no matter, it seems to be, although there's considerable uncertainty. The commission also speaks of the lack of money and management plans, and it is unclear which cost business management at the end of the operation. The key point is that this is clear. I agree with those who have wondered how it is possible for the independent party, who, at least once was responsible in government matters, to be able to handle or recommend such matters. There has been at least no member of that class who has come up here and tells us that this is not what we say it is, that it is, that it is evidence, or that everything has been exposed to the cost, the cost of operating, and so on. We know exactly how things work. In fact, this has been an example of construction in the northern part of the country, the Cave Road, in one speech. Not to be overlooked are these little tunnels in Húsavík, in connection with construction at Backka. Everything ends up in the state's arms more and less because they don't have it, and they don't have all the numbers and everything on the board, as well as you can think about it. That's what's going to happen in this case. After all the costs and stupidity over all programs, the government will be set up to say, "You can't stop the project, the state has to bring more money into it. " That's what's gonna happen. The only question is when. I think that sooner than later, plans will be out of control. I'm going to try to find this chapter that I was going to discuss in the leading section because he's going to have a discussion with this case and issues related to the transport program and we're going to be on the agenda and in a future discussion. This matter, however, is important and will, of course, discuss it until that happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u28	Madam President. I just want to get in on a plane and a plane. On page 18. 2 In the 15 - year plan, general focus is given in view of the transport easy policy objective. When a cargo flight comes, all coverage is rather cheap. Iceland's flight policy is on the General Assembly web site, but it is also a package of the 15-year plan, and reading it makes it easy to see that it also has limited weight there. It's called a green book on Iceland's flight policies. It has to be said that this is disappointing, Madam President, because the importance of a cargo flight to and from the country has now been proved in the viral epidemic. We received reports that medical supplies, ventilators, and etc. were being transmitted by cargoes. The importance of flying to and from the land has grown rather than the other. Moreover, it is very important that we secure all the facilities needed for freight. A significant part of fresh food on a global market is being introduced by a freight fly. Although we have emphasized the choice of Icelandic, certain products of this brand of goods are moved to the country, e.g. Vegetables and fruits, as we know. These are typically cooling products that cannot be transported along with commercial flights. The import of fresh foods is, therefore, usually by cargo transport. Then we know the importance of exporting fresh fish with a fresh flight. We must realize that when it comes to these matters, we must be competitive. The incidence of trajectory is crucial for the provision to and from the country, and thus for our products and quality of life, really. The largest part of Iceland's market is in the capital area, with main distribution centers there. How important it is, then, that we say that the emphasis on flying in the green book on flying is to improve the situation and the service of flying trajectory at Keflavour Airport. I would have liked to see more about this in a transportation program. Did we realize that when WOW's airline stopped operating and went bankrupt, the frequency of the cargo flight was greatly reduced? That is why it is very important that we look for ways to increase the trajectory to and from the country, including those of the United States. Because of our export, especially the fresh fish, which is of great value and currency. For this to be successful, the situation must be in place. In addition, there should be other possibilitys of a cargo flight, such as, for example, to be considered. From Akureyri. But above my head, I would have liked to see more emphasis on the importance of this aspect. Besides, smaller airports can be important in the case of hospital flights and we may well fit the airport situation, such as. ... intheWestlands. This needs to be in the policy of flying policy and should have been further stressed in a transport plan, as mentioned earlier. So I have to say that these important factors have been minimized as far as medical supplies are concerned. [[The president calls.]] Madam President. I wish to be reassigned to the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u29	Madam President. I have recently discussed the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Transportation Committees, between 5 and 15 years of age. There are viewpoints that give cause for discussion and deportation. I would like to first mention what is stated in the Commission's opinion of cooperation projects on road projects, but it shows that in particular cases and in general, less parts are making comments on the implementation of work on road projects. This suggests that the project on road cooperation would be implemented as a framework for future projects. It is noted that the Council could later conclude that certain projects were in place of the proposed legislation that specifically specify what projects should be looked forward to in line with the cooperation of public and private parties. In fact, it is noted that some of the projects listed there are not particularly suitable for such projects but would be traditional and convenient for the roadmaking. Madam President. It is not long, yet an important chapter in the Earth - To - Flood concept where a lower section reflects disappointment that in over a year since the approved last transport program, it has not been successful in preparing better for a new tunnel plan. It has been very useful and productive in a tunnel, and there, of course, is a specialization and integration, which is essentially valuable. The people who have come to have had long experience with their work and cooperation, and it would be very damaging if they went to the courtyard. Of course, it is important that a reliable, good, and responsible tunnel program be applied at any time. A tunnel is a major means of transportation, and it contributes to the safety of traffic across the country. A greater part of the transport committee is agreed on by the opinion that a complete analysis of land-walks in Iceland will be proposed to assess them in terms of national benefits, economic benefits, economic benefits and ground conditions. All of these are vital material. It also discusses the future by traffic, and I don't have time to discuss it. There is also reason to discuss the flight, but I have had the opportunity to do so, Madam President, and to have a chance to do so, I would like to ask for a re-regissing list.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u30	Madam President. I was there that we were talking about the airport and I'm going to try to finish that chapter. In a contract made by the secretary and mayor on behalf of the state and city, regarding the implementation of weather research in the Washingun, the local airport will be in the watermight until as good or better at the southwest corner will be ready for use. Today, preparations are being made for us to carry out further settlements in the cutoffs and to have already built many buildings in the so - called Vals area. In part 2, we stress that there is incorruption indistinguishable change in organization without adequate studies of the effect of this structure on flight security. In this connection, Isa's agreement with the Dutch Space Administration Agency identified the assessment that can be heard in July. Mrs. President, it is necessary that the government ensures that the order of research is put to the test before a new system for the area will be approved. It is also essential that surveillance agencies such as the Grouping Room, which operates on workers such as aerospaces and their infrastructure, give their opinion before implementation to prevent irreversible damage. It is unacceptable that conditions for flying and flying drivers on the field get worse, so the survival of the field is compromised, let alone, if I talk about flight security. Speaking of flight security, I'd like to give you security too. All the improvements, whether they are bridges, better roads, wider roads, double roads, shorter paths, and many other items to be listed - all of this is for greater security. There will be fewer miles that people have to drive on their way to and from places to accidents that decrease each mile. All roads are designed to improve safety. I'd like to mention this here as one of the most urgent things to do in transportation, i.e. to improve safety of road users. There's obviously a lot of work to do in the coming years, and I'm going to mention some of the safety issues of the environment and transport committee. The situation in many roads is such that residents and tourists do not feel safe about them, since road weights are high throughout the year. There are many narrow roads and roads that are poor or that are simply not there. These roads need to be improved, strengthened, and expected also to be carried out by bicycle riders in the type of projects under attack. Rist is needed in more ways, called rifles, that greatly increases safety, and more roads need to be built, especially where roads are steeped. For the difficult task of reducing bridges, however, many may feel that they can either go away gradually. I'm now one of them. Most important, they will be destroyed as soon as possible from highway one. The last time I drove to Hornfjörður, I was able to count the bridges and record them with me. I think they were 19 at the time, but they might have gotten a little smaller since, maybe there are 17 today or something like that, they were working on one or two. This is going too slow, Madam President. If these bridges are reduced, the safety will be enhanced. More important, when it comes to increasing traffic security, it is necessary to promote visible law enforcement on the roads so that speed and driving can be used, as it is called, by law. All the crowns, Madam President, put in the above items that I have been referring to pay off several times in fewer accidents and especially in the reduction of serious accidents. There is always reason to look for security as the safest traffic on the roads of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u31	V.E.G. President. I come up here to congratulate the President on the day. We realized that it is June 19th, the women's day, the anniversary of an Icelandic holiday, and that there is every reason to ask for it. President and other women, happy birthday. It is very important that we all seek to remember this day as long as we can and hopefully this day will be remembered throughout the country tomorrow because women have already fought for... [[Set it up for today.]] I'm sorry? [[Set it up for today.]] Yes, today, I'm sorry. I mean, when it starts to print more. We're supposed to remember this day because these things don't happen by themselves, women have been fighting for their rights for decades and what, it's 105 years today since the first women had the vote we're supposed to remember. It's important, I think, that we all insist on using our day today to commemorate this milestone. I must admit, Madam President, I was shocked only when we realized that this day had arrived and we hadn't discussed it here. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u32	It is a pleasure to spend the day listening to these interesting talks.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u33	V.E.G. President. I also want to use this opportunity to congratulate us women for the day, and in particular, I want to commend a president for being here with us. Even if it doesn't go forward, it won't go far. But I just repeat wishes. Happy birthday, ladies.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u34	President. I was going to address the President's conference board, but what I'm saying is inevitable only because, in the meantime, a man was changed on the President's chair. I don't know if I can wish for a president who is now particularly happy for the day. But I reiterate congratulations to the President who sat here when I asked for the word for President's conference board. I wanted to thank them for the best. A president for protecting the beginning of the day, and probably something forward, with us. But I would have liked to have the highest. A president who sat here just a few minutes ago would also be able to use the day to discuss with us the issues on the schedule because of the situation. A senator, sometimes president, has proved to be a spokesman for the Independence Party on transport in the capital area, facing us, and sometimes endeavoring to explain things to us. [[The president calls.]] And we may then have a better view of what men are going to do. There's a lot of questions here that haven't been raised, so I'll be happy. Senators to the honor. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u35	Mr. President. I'd now like to refresh our wishes to an advanced president, but at the same time, I'd like to be especially glad that in the hall we have a problem. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé. As a result, last night I felt that he was in his speech, during the council's work, arranged by the middleclassmen to guide us in the way we should talk about the subject that is being discussed. I get it somehow, so I get it first. A senator comes in here and he's with us, that he's taking out how we've done this, and even at some point he'll give us a grade or a review of whether we're following the guide he gave us in his speech yesterday on how we should approach the matter. I hope we've lived up to our expectations. A senator to let his light shine with us today. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u36	Mr. President. I was going to discuss the sum of the measures discussed here and to pay off the higher fees of car owners. The action we have been taking is proclaimed that there will be a one - time challenge, one of which has been called perpetuation, but it has clearly been seen that it was sold worthy of calling them quick charges. It's supposed to make a fortune. We Middle Class have been reluctant to pay taxes, and we haven't moved, I think, a few suggestions for raising our taxes in the process. Knowing this is vital, and of course everyone sees that the combination of vehicles is changing, more is being transferred to electric vehicles and more. In fact, I discussed the benefits of the record here, which for some reason has not been as widespread as humans expected. That's why we're having this trouble with a company called Waste, which has just been installed. But if we are going to charge these charges, some fees, it would be inconceivable if they were to pay on the expenses already collected by automobiles. That's when I'm talking about a car with a blast engine, either diesel or gasoline. It must be this way, Mr. President, when men charge any other fees, whether we call them swift charges, remunerations, or what they call them, you naturally have to consider the fees that are already charged to cover equal tax returns on car owners and to strive for a person to sit at the same table. Today, there has been strong motivation for transporting electric cars, and it has been shown to be a toll discount or a discount of what other cars have not been used. Of course, we support energy exchange, and if there's any country in which cars are going through the streets, that's because we generate electricity in a renewable way. In many lands it is true that a person who drives an electrical vehicle is actually driving for nuclear or gas or oil. Oil is the source of the energy that produces the electricity that humans load at their home or wherever they do it. I remember in this connection that a comedian was making fun of Hollywood stars that flew out and tried to buy electric cars, the first to arrive at the market, and he said, "Where do you think the power comes from? Out of the wall? Of course, electronic energy is produced by sources of energy that are not nearly as eco-friendly as the people we use here. But it was an exit now, Mr. President. The important thing is that if we are going to reimburse the collection of vehicles and reimburse the costs, we must strive not to add them to the existing charges, but to make sure that those who drive through the country's roads are somehow no matter what the tax returns to the state's budget. So I think there is a great need for a careful discussion about this. It'll probably be next week when we clean up this huge transport agreement, because this may be more in there than in here. At any rate, we need to give this careful consideration to how this could be done in the best way possible and how it would be resolved. Now I see that my speech period has been quite a while, and I'd like to ask a president to put me on the rosary again because there's a lot to say about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u37	President. I was beginning to explain how the city authorities, led by the United States, would have gone to get the government, the Independence Party in particular, to finance the League's campaign. This would have been done by means of a system site, and I was beginning to explain how it had worked out. First, the foundation was laid within the city by linking it to a case that had already been structured, such as contaminating. Then, in this net, the government is complicated, let's say, and first let the minister sign any agreements. This is sometimes called the samurai method. Little by little, the State is placed in a position to give more and more. In fact, the city began to create a problem that she would then let the State solve, to form with this agreement - this is now the past decade since it was made - about the State's strength to the city because of the bus. At the same time, however, a construction stop was placed on a vital infrastructure, causing the problem of traffic to greatly increase. The city could then take the next step and say to the State: This is not how it works, you see that everything is stopped. Something has to be done. Now let's make a deal and let you get on with it if you pay the ransom that people are now calling, i.e. falling on the city line. By doing so, the Kingdom power has been mixed up in the net, and it continues to roll in the system. A concentration based is the basis for a city line, a city line is the basis for density and then we see how the constructions have one by one to further establish it. The first stage doesn't connect Grafarvog, not Breiðholt, not Aarbourn, not much of the city's city line. Yet, there will be enough animals for the first stage. I remind you, it's as long as the city line in Edinburgh, where things got out of hand. After the government has paid the first stage of the community, it will be said, " There's nothing to stop here. ' If this is to work, continue. The people now sit in Grafarvogs, Breinholts, etc. stuck in traffic jams, since the city line will have squeezed up the traffic. They do not have access to a city line, so continuing is inevitable. And that's how it goes in a year, and even a decade of it, when it's over and over and over again, that's how it works. Of course, there is additional cost of operating. And what, then, is the Kingdom to say? We're not gonna put more on this? If the State says so, how will they respond? The answer will be: You've invested so much in it. You're gonna throw that investment away? Thus, funding will continue to be put in place. We see this system method appear widely, to form in a case directly related to the city line, i.e. The land hospital on Ring Lane. It's been years since most people, I think, realized and accepted that building a home on Ring Road would be a mistake rather than simply building a new hospital, for example. ... inCententineland. But the matter had been established, and it continued to be the same, and today the Landspians of the Ring Course are even used as a rational support for the way the city line goes and the city line route is used as a rational support for the implementation of the Land Hospital. [[The president calls.]] This is what happens to this system's endless cycle.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u38	V.E.G. President. The national network in Iceland is divided into four subtypes by road law, i.e. stock road, road, local road, and land road. Strains are their most important endpoint, as indicated by a team 2.mg. Section 8. road layer, including ... toassociatetheborders ofthe country. Thus, urban and regional areas as well as the country's main transport systems are the main routes of transport. Accesses then link key destinations to the root net. In Western lands, for example, only foresty roads without limited erosion are found. Looking at the whole country and the road compared to a similar road, one of the two shores of the country's two stems is not bound by the design and construction of the land. The ensuing information of Stykisholmtown shows that the Forest Coast Road is one of the two shores of the country, the other on the beach, without limited stretch of barriers that are not being conducted or anticipated within a short period of time. In 2007, Forest Coast Road was a transport strategy that would have been improved at sea. On the other hand, he was removed from a plan and was left standing on hooks, narrow, and rocky, rich in monotonous bridges, blind hills, and other dangers. Clearly, the completion of the game design of Forest Beach must take immediate action. The design has been initialized from the West Coast Road to the Heydal Roads Roads. Therefore, the forethought of this process must be addressed immediately so that the work design can be completed. Little or no work has been done from Stykisholm Road to Narfun, however, was considered at its time abbreviation on the road about 7 miles [7 km] with a bridge over Eelfjörður Fjordur. It is necessary to begin with the originals of this series, forethought, and subsequent design. In comment on the existing Parliamentary Directive on transport programmes, we find that the structure of the network, its maintenance, its management, and its management is a priority for the provision of funds for transport programmes. According to definition, the root road system is weighed by a base net. It is based on the whole subnuclear region with approximately 100 people or more are connected to a foundation on land. It also includes the places that are expected to become most important for fishing, tourism, and transport in and out of the country. In such cases, the base is stable and is located around urban areas. The network is the main transport network in the largest urban areas. A transport program shows that in a shallow network, stockways are built up with full carrier resistance and a complex fracturement. The existing transport strategy shows that the wood coast is proposed to work on a variety of road repairs, but the cost is uncertain. The priorities presented in the transport program are unacceptable considering the development of a Forest Coastal Road as part of a basic transport system. In particular, in contrast with the existing transport strategy, not adding more emphasis to the Sylvester road, where capital emphasis is placed on the existing policy of achieving its objectives by achieving its main infrastructure and its connection to urban areas with more than 100 inhabitants having bound fragments and adequate weight tolerance. Since Forest Coastal Road is part of the platform under transport protocol, you might expect it to be a priority in managing transport resources. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. President. I wish to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u39	Mr. President. What I would like to mention here, and I was having trouble finding earlier, is on page 18. 17 of the leading aluminium at the top of the section. It discusses the purpose of the transport covenant, including the following: to speed up construction in the capital area. It reviews that to achieve a successful implementation according to him, the Generals need to confirm financial contributions, etc. This is very important, and I would like to thank the greater part for putting it in as clearly as here is done, the presence of the Generals in all of this. I would have liked to see this as strongly put in words, and, of course, in other matters that we have on the agenda of the Council of Transport, I am referring to the bill involved in the transport contract. Unquestionably, it is very important to be taken away. I've said that before. On the same page, says the president's permission: ▪ Foremen to start projects and that contributions come from rural areas to meet the state, a formal agreement between the above-mentioned members and the Vega is to be concluded. I wondered, " Is this an agreement? I'm just going to take a closer look, fit the order right here in this order, both in the council and in this transport contract. Then, with the permission of the president, here on page 26. 17: It is more important that road laws be made clear about government and rural development on urban transport so that the expense shifts under the Treaty are in accordance with the Law. Encourages the committee to review the law in this regard. This can easily be interpreted as being unconcerned today, as it is unclear how these costs should be between the state and the community. If that is the correct interpretation, I feel that it is starting backwards. They're accepting the capital contract, the city line, and all of it in a transport plan, and possibly the cooperation projects discussed here, but I feel that it is beginning in the wrong end when it is said to continue with this, but it needs to be found out how the operation should be because it is not clear in the law today. What happens if there's a change in what we're going to do. It's going to be a little different from the law? Or should the law adapt to the operation that will be adopted? These speculations make me wonder if I'm starting on the wrong end. I would have liked to see that men had gone to this job to finish identifying this before they go to the state fund in all of this as suggested here. This is most important in view of the fact that it is, and it has been observed in many speeches, substantial uncertainty about the ultimate cost, the exchange of final costs, the implementation, the performance, and so on. I haven't seen it or got it out of those who support the fact that there's a specific field nigger, but it's all pretty open. When things are opened, really left incomplete, we are offering that, later on, they will be in interpretations and they will have to bring more money into this to fulfill the contract, that the state's funds have to take on parts of the forward drive, that the state's funds need to take part of the losses that will take over the project, etc. You see, there's everything that indicates that, and I said it here earlier in the night or yesterday, I don't remember whether, this project is going to go beyond schedule. There is no other indication because experience with such large projects from abroad and, in fact, smaller projects in Reykjavík, such as this famous case, for example, are inclined to overtake plans. Hence, it is very important to frame it so that government funds do not remain with any interpretations that make it happen that the government's funds and taxpayers will be taken care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u40	Mr. President. All I want to do is access traffic safety and the young people in traffic, and prevent them from doing so. Not so long ago, representatives of the higher schools had a seminar on the safety of traffic, and the heading was: Traffic Security, our case. There the government was challenged to further improve the education and prevention of traffic safety and to provide clear policy and measures to improve public transport and road transport. It is very important to reduce the number of road accidents among young people, and the success of the number of accidents caused by road accidents indicates that an increase in driving age is not the most important challenge. However, there is increasing education and emphasis on prevention that is important and is a tool that needs to be used and used at all levels at school, in teaching, and in other ways, so that we can strengthen the safety of young drivers. It also showed that it was necessary to teach foreign drivers about their situation in Iceland and to improve the situation of prevention of foreign drivers. In view of young people, it is necessary to separate road travel policies on multiple roads. It is enjoyable and interesting to listen to young people as they express themselves on traffic safety issues because they sometimes have even more simple and better vision than we, who may be used to being very busy and who have been motorists for a long time. So now, in the years that technology will change the traffic around here, like anywhere else, and I think there's something we need to consider, that the road system will be prepared in the future for the technological revolution across the corner of these materials. Then it is this training under difficult circumstances. Most drivers who have just had a driving test or a car test should be able to overestimate their driving skills. They actually think they're better at driving than they really are, e.g. in liquids, sharks, snow, rain and darkness, and also in dealing with unexpected obstacles, e.g. Walking by roadfarers, livestock, and birds. This has been the case with studies, foreign studies, all pointing in the same direction. Many people have responded and tried to train these abilities, e.g. in automobiles that are specially equipped and have little trajectory. Thereafter, the graduates are directed to solve certain challenges and cope with obstacles. Assessment studies of this training have not shown any effective results in the loss of accidents among young drivers, and in some cases indicate an increase in the incidence of natural accidents, but it is considered that after training drivers feel more skilled at driving while in difficult situations. So there is much to consider when it comes to young drivers. A report by a U.S. traffic accident in 2018 reports an increase in drug - driving accidents. However, young drivers have rarely been more successful and have improved from year to year. It's satisfying news, and that's why I think it's very important that we set projects that will help reduce road accidents on dangerous roads. This is to be the goal of a road accident reduction program by improving the ability to drive where accidents are frequent and should be the principle in these topics. [[The president calls.]] I see, Mr. President, that time has passed and I hereby wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u41	Mr. President. There is a review in the case of Illelanddir Group. There is a company that, for a short time, was very powerful, above all knowledge companies, and we all hope to be restored. It is quite remarkable that this review is dated January 10, which is just as soon as the virus had begun to freeze. I think the views presented in this review are very interesting. They must have been counted as the most knowledgeable and long experience on the scene. I'd like to mention that I remember a very pleasant visit to the job committee at the Hafnarfjördur Institute, which includes the work programme. There are simulators of the most advanced type used to train pilots, pilots, and pilots. That visit opened various aspects of my eyes. We heard there were more than a dozen engineers working for the company, and you were impressed by how far this company is on the developing track as a coordinated unit, where a great talent and skills are being brought together with long experience. So I cut down on this review, what I think is important - there are some things that are interesting there, but there's a section on priorities in behalf of the Chefjordur airport and another that deals with the construction of backup flights as a very important project. A section on priorities in behalf of the Chefjordian airport shows that the Society feels that priorities are necessary for such building projects rather than priorities for other airports. The Society puts a Cheflavour Airport on top of it. This is logical, including Based on the evidence that there is a high level of transport between Icelandda's destinations in Europe and North America and that these communities already have a competitive premium, including due to shorter travel time. On this basis, if passengers are to view such connectors as practical for direct flights, they conclude that a connection at Keflavík Airport is important. It is thought that in recent years, the linking flights had passed by because of the lack of construction of the Cheflavour airport, and in such a number of passengers are traced, and this is what you might call a Pratician problem, that this has led to a frequent landing of aircraft on remotes - a remarkable word of telecommunications, and then it bends away - and that the bus's ferry needs to be taken into the airport building. A passenger's reaction to this arrangement has shown negative results, but it will also be more challenging to ensure a short linking of these factors. This is a practitional problem that supports this priorities in behalf of the Cheflavour Airport. Mr. President, I'm thinking more about this opinion and I'm asking to be registered on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u42	It should be done. It's not surprising. A senator wishes to do so. The President now suggests that this second policy discussion of the transport programmes has lasted for about a year and a half. 22 hours. Now, for the last five, the six hours have only been the driving force. The members of the Central Party participated in the discussion and continued five - minute talks, ten to twelve each, several of them, and the president sees no sign that this event will end. It's just a few disappointments because, frankly, the president expected us to get down much further after the meeting at this long day, if not emptying it. Today, just a few days remain in the spring season of the assembly, thus giving attention to the situation. Elders need to show reasonableness toward one another as they strive to share brotherly with one another the time of public speaking set aside during the few days that remain. Today's discussion is about transport plans. It is the legal function of the Generals. It is not possible to give up on the fact that the Council completes its obligation to accept national policy plans that can be worked out. A few senators'opposition cannot lead to the failure of the Generals in this regard. The President hopes to do it. Councilmen are aware of this. So the president encourages why. Councilmen to consider whether they will be able to close their viewpoints so that when this discussion continues to be held at the next meeting, it will not take long, otherwise it is unconvinced that the expected end of the assembly is possible. If so, those taking the lead have to face up to a new position in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u43	There have been letters from foreign and development co-worker to provide written answers to panels. 710, on the release of international agreements, on the cover. 1459, on cleaning services, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson, to the river. 1142 on a ground plan of action, from Albertína Fjordur, the Friðbjörg of Elíasdóttir, to the river. 1438 of the Ministry's legal work, and of the parish. 1164, on contracts involving public financial matters, from Björn Leví of Gunnarsson on deck. 1052, on the impact of foreign countries on election results, from Hrafn Hynn Gunnarsson on deck. 113, on the commitment of the Icelandic government to properly introduced EU types have the priority in Icelandic dishes, and on deck. 124, of the Ministry's comments on legal opinions, from Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isenus, and finally with an inquiry from Bruntur the son of Níelsson on the roof. 1418, about the cost of the Ministry to written answers to queries.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u44	So far about the 12th part of the program that a short dose has passed since the distribution of the changes made in it. So we need to seek approval from making the adjustment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u45	A respectable president. I have a few things that are running out of my last talk that I wanted to repeat. The mention of public transport, especially the structure of public transport, is discussed in the majority of the majority of the majority of the EU's transport sectors, such as the transport contract made in the capital area, with the introduction of all rural society. That contract has raised some discussions, especially in public transportation. It has presented interesting criticism, or interesting, in a very ironic tone, I would say, that the structure of what has been called a city line, or just structure of public transportation, that part of that contract, is all too expensive and will not produce the desired results. Thus, there have been many thoughts about the lack of a management plan and the cost being uncertain, and people have no idea what the final account will be and so forth. Everything's wrong. I wanted to go over it a little bit. A few years ago, an analysis was made, and it was published in 2013, so it certainly needs to be updated. I know something more recent, but it's more difficult to find. It's not as accessible and very difficult to consult the council's committee, which contains all the documents. There is no organization but by language, and very many documents are under each issue and not obvious to the names of the documents as to what is being considered. However, in the analysis done, the costs, expenses, and cost of operating were discussed, and the benefits of building up according to a number of field-of-view analyses performed. In the first place, scene A, a set basic picture of how traffic would develop into the year 2040 if similar investments were put into place in recent years and decades, i.e. mainly structure of soils, less of the structure of public transport and the like. Based on population forecasts and various factors, it goes out as a basic picture, as a covariate B and scene C compares itself, on whether it is more practical to perform a different or a different type of action than in recent decades. B and C's films both deal with the development of public transportation, just a variety of stage B accounts for less structure on public transportation and less condensedation than the core C scene. Both parts are divided into two parts, a speed - moving system, and a light - reading system. According to these analyses, the range based on light - reading systems, they are simply more expensive and less efficient, since the only place in the capital area that has enough mass to carry the lightest of people on the far end of a major road, has been selected as a B1 staging image, which is an increase in structure and structure on public channels. During this period of time, if calculated costs, cost of operating, and stock costs and such would be expected to increase the cost of operating according to scene A 9 billion over a 25 year period. It's a lot of money a year, but not too much. However, when comparing the benefits of going through B1 with increasing structure and increasing public transport, the benefits are 114.8 billion versus 9, reaching 115 versus 9. The benefits pay more costs and much more than that, and although more intensive staging and cost analysis are being done around the scenarios done there, there are very few factors that will vary the ratios to benefits and costs. This may not be the final result after all, perhaps the cost of operating will be twice as high, e.g. 18 billion, which is double on guard. Maybe that'll be twice as much. In that case, we are still talking about 18 billion at 60, or so. However, there is a far greater benefit in going into the movie B1, which is the city line as it is thought today, the fast - moving system and density built, rather than doing what we have done in recent decades. I look forward to seeing members of the Parliament who have specifically spoken these programs about this possibility that we have from the best data available to us. It doesn't have to be expected that there's no master plan behind it, there's one. It's not that there's no idea what the cost is, it's there. Instead of having no idea what the benefits will be, you can see them there too. It's all there. Not enough to do so, but not all calculations for benefit are expected in this analysis, e.g. missing climate benefit analysis into these calculations. So we're just beginning to talk about the potential efficiency of these two films, on the other hand, of the motion picture A, which is a simple structure, such as in recent decades, and on a densely populated basis and in a city line. The efficiency of the B1 route, the city line route, the public transportation, is much higher than if we are beginning to do what we've done so far. The possibility of a future increase in the pressures of traffic in the capital area is much greater if we go to the structure organized by city lines than if we just take research. If we look at these very simple standards that can be considered, and the information and the analysis that has been made of them, then we should be aware that these are the ways we choose for the future. There is always a better way to do this than in the sizes we're talking about, I don't see that we're ever going to get badly out of the structure of public transportation organized according to that staging analysis. That doesn't mean it's unchangeable. Of course, we'll do more opinions and more tests as the area develops, as the population may change according to the criteria, etc. This organization can then be adapted to the details involved. [[The president calls.]] But it doesn't change the big picture as far as the way A and B1 are concerned. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who only wants to talk to him about the cost of a government fund on account of a city line project. A senator was discussing the matter. The Clinic of Human Knowledge has provided an estimate of local stock costs in the city's infrastructure and is estimated to be an estimated cost of about 1.13/4.15 billion dollars. each mile on prices in January 2017, of course it's gone up. The cost of total assessment can be estimated from 633/4,70 billion U.S. dollars. Then I'd like to ask. A senator will determine who should provide this 7 billion variation, from 63 to 70. I'd like to come in on one thing about the Feldland. The traditional land of the state is represented by government institutions. There's government, housing, and other research. I suppose all of this has to go away and move to a new location, which is accompanied by new construction costs. This is accompanied by transportation costs. It is also involved in the costs of property rights, the cost of selling or renting land, and from the city of Reykjavík or from any of the other rural communities. What does it look like? A senator, who pays this cost? The treasure provides this land, but there are structures in it that the state needs to bring naturally. Is this supposed to be part of a community or is it reasonable that government partners pay this cost? Wait a minute. A senator is merely accessing these factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u47	A respectable president. The cost is so great. You see, we're having small business problems with certain cost splits between rural society and the State. It is certainly a little confusing with this project, since many of the humanizations are going over to the countryside, which may pay a little less than the value of this agreement. The problem is due to the wrong exchange between state and rural society in the first place, that the State has assigned a lot of work to the rural community without the means to finance it. In fact, most of these projects would be more correct only in their communities and in terms of financial independence so that they could deal with them. As noted in the European Union's reviews, the government's cost share of government expenses may be 70% in rural areas, while 30% in the states is elsewhere in the Northern countries. But in Iceland, there are 70% of the state and 30% of rural society. This will mismanage the entire picture of the balance of power between the state and the state of state. All of this is public money, the public money paid by taxes, whether it's paid by taxes to the local people, to the State or to the local community, and then back to the local community. There are certain alms and acts of alms that need to be changed. I don't see much of the exchange of roads, because when it comes down to it, it's paid for the public money that societies and states are part of. I might be able to come in on the other one in a later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u48	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I felt that he was going a little around what I was asking. I was asking who will pay for the extra expenses involved in transporting these activities. If the government needs to buy property for this work, the research, in another community, there may be billions. Then the contribution of the State to this project has become even greater. This is what we've stressed, and I've emphasized in my discussion on this matter and in particular the city line, that I think there's so vague details when it comes to the cost of the government. And you ask yourself: " Does not some last meeting have to be arranged so that government funds are not taking over because of some variation and unpredictable factor? ' I don't feel that way. Hv. A senator also mentioned taking construction factors out of the company, i.e. in the agreement that rural society can take certain factors out of this at late stage, i.e. roads and bridges, etc. But when that cost is perhaps more than 25% of the community's ownership, is the local community going to buy it at market prices, or is that determined by the practicality of the enterprise and such? It is also a vague part that needs to be cleared up. Hv. A senator knows this, and we know it well, we're sitting on a budget committee, and now he needs control over the financial affairs of the state. The balance of state funds is enormous. There are maintenance measures ahead of the next budget. We know that. You can't write up a deal like that, can you? A senator must agree with me in that, when such vague factors can divide billions of people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u49	A respectable president. I hadn't started to discuss this because I hadn't started to answer this part of the question. With regard to the Netherlands and its institutions, it is certainly property that can be sold and purchased in return, or to do something more economically. The problem, as I described in the previous answer, is that the state takes 70% of its public funds from the public expenses as a whole. By doing so, the Kingdom takes much more of the work that others should be doing in the community, in close proximity to it, and should also take responsibility in this regard. In terms of where the roads lie, etc., I find it understandable because of the increased responsibilities of the state that are so important to the public. But something has to be fixed. For the market price on the surface, e.g. in the Köldnaland, it was highly considered in terms of the greater part that the share of the State should definitely be cared for and the value of that part should be cared for in the environment, sale, and use of that land. Efforts were made to ensure very well the support that would be necessary for a legal committee at the council. If there were any abnormalities, they should be reported so that plans could be adjusted. I'm not really worried about these plans. Yes, they can go somewhere plus or minus back and forth, but on a 15-year plan, it's not unusual to see that. [[The president calls.]] When you see the potential benefits of this project overall, there is much room for you to increase it despite the urgency of the project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u50	President. I'm not on a transport and environment committee but to be able to participate in this discussion, if it starts to get a little longer and some disagreement about it that could become, I wanted to be sure I understood the law and its origins reasonably. So I'm going to review what transportation laws say, how they have changed over the years, and what evaluations can be made from the reports. In short, this law was adopted in 2008. That was a new bill, in addition to what had been approved in 2002. The changes made were not important and are shown in the 2008 report with the 2008 bill. It's the law we're working with right now. The bill is brief when it was decided to reexamine it rather than make adjustments and change the laws they had agreed on in 2002. My alarm sounds like it's coming out of my office right away. I haven't had time to dive into this, but I can do it here if the discussion goes a long way. However, as soon as a new bill is presented, there are no more legal data from 2002. That is exactly what happens. All the law data is missing with the articles on the bill since 2002. This is now a new legal solution to the 2008 bill. The articles explain the legal features and the mercy that the 2002 articles had left behind. When it comes to transportation, such as any observer in the seminary, it is an overexhaustible measure. Then you might ask: " How has this changed? How are you planning to go to the top? Minister of transportation, which is now from the Southern District, if I recall correctly, apply the law? That's a good main purpose in the law, as says, by the permission of a president: - Uh-huh. - Target. The aim of these laws is to coordinate planning with transport projects. This should be done in a transport programme [15] of year. 2.g. and [five-year action programme] by Section 3. which is part of and in the framework of a transport program. So it's supposed to match all projections and frame them in. That box must follow all kinds of scripts and even comes with them. to point two. The law, in the middle of the story. This is the last case number two. 2. ... withauthority of the President's permission: The transport programme shall include the European Environment Agency and the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Medicines Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency. Based on the main objectives These goals must be framed. The whole programme must be framed and, therefore, the priorities of implementation, the timing of these transport improvements. How does a minister possibly get past this frame? We can see that in other issues related to this, there are treatments at the council, and we have known through the years, e.g. Deer-heath tunnel. Then it's beginning to be called something other than public action. The way they tried to handle a guard tunnel was to talk about a private project. Finally, the State had to shovel money into the pits of the Valalelah tunnel. This had become far beyond a personal project. First, taxpayers paid for their tax dollars, which was repeatedly shoveled in the tunnel. Then they also have to pay to drive through the tunnel. This is an example of a private project, or a private/official partnership, with which the people have been very unhappy. Another example of something done by private citizens, and people see in a much more favorable light, is the Half - a - roof tunnel. Of course, they had to be paid to drive through them, but that saved you that huge long leg that was Hölfland. Finally, they found their way to the State. A minister can go beyond the professional framework that has been established in the transport law, as he intends to do with six different means of transportation that have been taken out of a transport programme and put in top priority by calling them PPP, in English ◯Public Private Partnership, a work of cooperation between state and private. Three arrive some time later, but they should be examined as soon as three are ready and should be implemented. Then I am told that because these three edifices are taken out of a transport programme and should be financed in this way, they cannot be put back in their priorities. They've been pulled out. As a result, the local people are faced with either a personal act in cooperation with the government or with the fact that the projects are just out of place and they do not fall back in until some other time later. If this transport strategy is adopted, these means of transportation fall out and the local people are actually locked up. Either they have to wait a lot longer or they have to accept a lot longer for transport. This is an example of how to misplace transportation with a good frame. One of the factors mentioned here is that one of the law's main objectives, by permission of a president, is that transportation is facilitated, economic, safe, and environmentally sustainable, as well as that it contributes to positive development. Security. The suggested six points can be taken out, although less security is involved and there may be more security in going to any other project. But there is no need for private members to be involved in the project. The more private workers work on projects, the less money is needed in a transport program. This is an example of how a minister can avoid the current professional framework. If we continue, we will say in 2 Cor. Act on the President's transport programme: So I'll shoot in, that's exactly what's going on here. Where you're going, you're going to have a goal and a goal for all articles of transportation for the next 15 years. At the same time Assessment and assessment of the needs of transport services. During my review, I will mention specifically when something is added to the law since 2002. Since 2002, the 2008 law is virtually compatible with them. However, they were updated, they presented a new bill with a new report and logical support. We have not yet come to anything that is truly different. Go, with President's permission, 2 mgr. 2.g. 2008 bill: A strategists and budgets for all transports, i.e. Air traffic, road and navigation, including... Public transport, ports, marines, security and environmental transport. It will define a basic system designed to carry a major extent of transportation and should be defined for the state of the environment and for transport of the country. Then this addition comes. I've read it twice, and I'm going to read it again. This was added. The transport programme shall include the European Environment Agency and the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Medicines Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency, the European Environment Agency. Based on the main objectives We're going to the 2008 bill with the bill. The Bible says of 2 Timothy 3: 1. par., on security, by permission of the President: However, a higher degree of security is being done since it is considered among the analyses of transport to be implemented. In recent years, the safety issues of which have been increased, so it seems appropriate to be mentioned and discussed specifically. It is suggested that the key objectives to take into account the transport process should be taken into account, but this is by no means a complete count to conclude that the primary objective will be to change in line with the changing focus and development of transport. While this has not been changed, the main objective of safety, efficiency, of driving is clear, and the viewpoints I mentioned earlier, and a minister does not need to be taken into account when he decides to take his work out of a transport program, and might be considered with a petting project. If not four of them in his district, would it not be three? This is exactly the problem. The secretary of transportation takes out the work and increases the number of projects in their districts at the expense of everyone else in the natural land, including those in the United States. possible at the cost of security, which was specifically set up as a target for law 2008. That's not good. When we discuss this, it would be good to have the highest power. Transport Secretary, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, here at the conference Hall so that he can answer to whether these transport projects - the six areas he takes out of a transport programme and plan to cooperate with private workers on road expenses - meet the security criteria better than the other transport projects. Are they more favourful or more practical? Are they really more practical? Is it really possible for private people to be funded for better interest than the state today? No, they can't. It looks like the highest. The secretary of transportation and rural management is taking out his pet project and he doesn't have to meet objective views. As a result, he is able to pass the largest of the six transport projects he can get through, or he, in his own jurisdiction. That's not good. If I continue with 2 g's. The bill, by permission of the President, this is 3rd. mgUnable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: The transport programme should also take into account the following objectives: a. to achieve the order of priorities and policy development. Exactly, they're going to achieve consistent priorities and policy development. However, a minister may then address some matters that are convenient for him and that are his pet project. Come on, with president's permission: ◯b. to achieve the practical use of capital and human resources. No, it's not practical. It must be shown that it is more practical for government funds and citizens who have to pay for these roads. That's what this is about. It's not about a private business making money. It's about the practicality of government funds and the people who use the roads. A minister needs to prove this. It would be perfectly normal for him to take his assignment outside parentheses to show that they are actually more practical in using resources and resources. Given the state's financial status, I can't see that he can take a very small loan from a road, or anything but the roads. Come on, with president's permission: ▪c. to achieve the coherence of transport practices and the cooperation of transport agencies and their companies. By permission of the President, 4 mg. 2. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending It should also be taken into account that the funds of the state's funds are making the best use of their resources and that priorities should be based on assessment of the need for transport in the whole country and in individual parts of the country. It should be taken into account that the financial resources of the government are making the most of it. Now we know that the government's funds did not make good use of the Cradle March. The mission was given to private agents. I was on the budget as a guardian for what happened. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson at that time. There came members of the State - we need to review these matters - and in effect say that it was a national project. This eventually took place because the government fund, or taxpayers, took on a large amount of money on the project. This is what the people of the land are burned off. They don't want it done again. V.E.G. A secretary of transportation and unit, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, is going to have to answer for that if he's going to do six personal projects. He needs to show that they're within professional bounds, which I don't seem to be. Come on, by permission of the President, 5. mgUnable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending The budget and expenditure requirement should be divided over three four years, and expenses shall be divided there by key spending categories. At the same time, expenses for new implementations on the basis of the system are divided by individual large tasks for each of the three periods. This is, in fact, just as it was in the 2002 Law that makes you think: " Why did they take up the entire bill in 2008 and change your reports? It rings bells. On the other hand, there's something changed to 6. mg, by permission of the President: ▪ Prior to this protocol, a transport minister puts forward his policies on key seminaries, as well as financial and time frames, to the transport council, as well as on the basis of a policy plan. Section 4. The proposals based on this policy shall be made in the institutions and companies of transport for the management of the Agency. The Transport Board prepares and proposes a transport plan and provides a transport minister for final payment and decision. No, it wasn't changed. This came from somewhere else and was moved, so I corrected. This was moved, was somewhere else on the bill. It's gonna change a little bit, if I remember correctly, but it was the same in any way. I'm not going to make a statement that I'm not quite sure of. So that's 3 g's. The bill, by permission of the President: ▪ A transport plan strategy. The procedure should be implemented prior to the first five-year period of each transport program, corremation. 2.g. The procedure shall include a schedule for each year's period for each centre and transport company under the Ministry. - It's the same in the 2002 law. The disintegration of the Action Programme should be implemented so that the responsibility and financial resources of the individual organisation and company are clearly stated. Funding and spending should be defined by individual activities, management, services, and maintenance as appropriate. The effectiveness programme should include: Be disintegrating in accordance with the implementation of the budget. Incomes and expenditures of action programmes should be included within the framework of a transport programme. That's good. 3 mg. Section 3. is a change from what was in the 2002 law: ▪ Prior to this protocol, a minister offers a financial traveling trip to the transport board. Section 4. is about a transport strategy that works in consultation with a minister, by permission of the President: ▪ The secretary appoints a transport council that makes proposals for a minister to the transport programme and the five-year transport programme, policy and priorities, following the emphasis of Ministers, cr. paragraphs 2 and 3 Then, in the bill, there is a big change from the 2002 law in the manner in which transportation Council is ordered and the ratio of power to ministers. By permission of the President: In transport, two representatives serve as Ministers of Ministers, one of whom shall be chairman, president of Vega, director of the Association, and director of Istavia Ohf. There is a transport agent from the Office of the Ministry of Transport. The time of the transportation Council is limited to the appointment of the Minister of Ministers who orders. But how was that? This was 2002, so the secretary of transportation appointed a transportation strategy that supervised the development of a transport program, where the director of the flight, the head of the cruise, and the head of the road. It is understandable that they were replaced by the director of the road program, the director of the House of Diseases, and the director of Istavia. To a large extent, that is a new office. The 2008 bill says of the transport council, with the permission of the President: Its representative represents the secretary of transportation, as well as the Chairman... Only one agent, but not two. It is added to the representatives and representatives of the Ministry, so the minister has much more important to the committee and the proportions of power have changed considerably. Come on, with president's permission: However, the appointment period of the secretary of transportation should be limited to the appointment of the minister. It's similar there. You can see that the ratio of power in those who worked this changed in 2008. Then there's a 2nd. Section 4. different. By permission of the President: The transport programme should be developed in consultation with stakeholders. At the same time, it should be possible for the public to address their views and comments in an open, forthcoming, open - minded approach. But this is what it was: The Transport Board shall remember once in the preparation of a new transport programme to provide counseling and guidance on transport procedures. For transport, all key transport stakeholders should be offered. During a transport session, the plans and objectives of the programme should be made clear. Transporters should consult with stakeholders as indicated at any given time. I'm sure it would be nice to have transportation and good, too. In the old law, however, there is a obligation to communicate solely with a little tighter timing. Today, the procedure for transport should include consultations with stakeholders. This is more extensive and offers more conversation. It's as far as I can go this time, but I'll continue with the 5th. in the next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for his speech. So I put it in my speech that this vision of a man on the road and that it would be like a good novel with a historical story, in which there are many bows, and very costly fawns. Hv. As an example, a senator took the Vadalala tunnel, and we know that once something has been taken out of a road program and we are going to do it on our own, it will be much more expensive. This has proved to be far more expensive. That's what I'm talking about. A senator did not agree to find a solution? The government can take far more practical loans to do this than any private person ever does. Someone has to pay for it and someone has to pay for it. [[The president calls.]] But this need not be taken into consideration if the government is being carried out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u52	President. Yes, let's ask ourselves, " What interest is on loans made by private clients today? ' What a surprise it would be if they were lower than the interest of a government fund! The wealth of money can borrow on very low interest rates. And who pays for it? In the end, it is always the people who pay for the roads they use in one way or another. And above, it is not just interest from loans that are given to private citizens; it also has a fruit requirement for the money they have. In a prime minister, where he is going to take six projects out of a transport program - I can't remember exactly what it's said - it's the space open to which a minister could then be accepted as the preferred product of the private resources involved in the project. So if there is a demand for logical support, and the Ministers need to support it, I can't see in any way why it would be better for the public, those who need to use the roads.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for the answer. I cut by one of his talks, he spoke of one of the priorities in this case as being safe. I ask: If we plan to set priorities for safety, what is the greatest danger, if we take the road system, highway No. 1? There's one burnt bridge. They are still 36; they are to be reduced by 8 to make it 28. If we were thinking about safety, it would be number one, number two, and three to take all of this out, to make an assessment of all these alone bridges, and to take them away. Then we would really be looking after the safety of our citizens. These are usually only four meters [4 m] or narrower, as well as a 60 - mile [50 km] [50 km] [an hour] decrease in speed, apart from the dangerous conditions for foreign tourists because they do not know them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u54	President. I examined it in my day. It is not particularly difficult to find out where the most dangerous roads are. You can still look at it on two terms. I'd let the second one weigh a lot more. On the one hand, ask: How dangerous is the road for every person who drives it? This may be a way in which each individual takes the risks very high, but those who go on the road may be very few. On the other hand, like the malls, there are vast, multilingual roads and molds, such as those at the Hafnarfnarfjörður and on the Smokey Way, where the road has not been improved. These are the most dangerous roads, since most of them die. We know that. I don't feel protected by a minister taking a job out of the framework we have, including You should look to him with confidence if he cannot argue that he meets his goals, including those that he does not. for safety set out in a transport programme. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u55	Mr. President. It is 33% more expensive to keep investors in charge of roads than public. It is stated, Mr. President, under the heading of the FIB, the company of Icelandic car owners, on the cooperation project on transport, that is very clearly outlined that due to the very higher interest costs of private interest than the State's interest costs, and more factors are simply 33% more expensive to enter private investment than the rest. Actually, I don't agree with that as a dog. A senator said that the projects under PPP are not important. [[Up front.]] I think they're very important, but I'm sure they're taken out of parentheses. But is it not true that we would need to place much more money on the road and on the maintenance? I think that's something that's forgotten. And feel it. It is acceptable for a senator to set a road where other roads are not really effective, such as, for example, in other ways. A sailing tunnel and a West Coast tunnel? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u56	President. Of course, I did not say that they were not as important as the other projects. I just said they weren't in this framework of professional agreements, security, economics, etc., which restrict ministers to transport priorities. But taking these matters outside parentheses - to answer the last question: Of course. They are being justified in other ways. What happens, though, when our personal work is up and people are paying for it? When it comes to maintenance, how much further will the other way of priority be? Within a transport program, they would only collapse the list and descend, so the only practical way, if only safe, practical, and practical, is to go the other way. It's very good, I didn't know about the 33% difference. As I said at the beginning of my speech, I'm not on the committee, and as a result, the matter has not been well considered yet, but it may be needed if this discussion persists. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u57	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's excellent answer, and I think that we really agree in most ways. Hv. A senator named the Vadalah tunnel. Granted, other means of financing could have been used, and certainly, questions can be asked about this, but the task was extremely important, and it was immediately seen in the winter of such an enormous importance. But I wanted to ask. A senator into what we had discussed about maintenance of roads and what was left of him. paritaprevir Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson came in earlier on the matter of safety. Is it not true that in order to improve safety, it is a matter of putting more on the road to maintenance and service? I don't think it's too often forgotten in this context. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u58	President. Since we've begun to talk about maintenance of roads, I have to inform you, under the General Code, the interests I've maintained. I've been working for 23 summers in a malaria company, sitting in the Wormbund, and taking as much of their money as possible in the automobiles, so I'll mention it. It's just the same perspectives, the safety principles, practicality, practicality, etc. It's very good to have these numbers from what? A senator, that FIB has noted that it is 33% more expensive if private workers are going into this operation. Who's gonna make it? Who can make any money taking an assignment out of parentheses for this professional transport program? Of course, it's a traveling and rural minister who gets the party, at least three projects, I think, in his own district, and then, of course, the private guys get a great investment in long-term projects, good and safe investments. [[The president calls.]] But, yes, it's important, but it's not a question of that. [[The president calls.]] This is a matter of priorities on the importance. [[The president calls.]] That's what's framed into a transport plan, but a minister likes to step out of parentheses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u59	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u60	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for an interesting speech, it was accurate, just as he was one of them. We would like to imitate the rest of us if we were to be more specific at times. Hv. A senator spoke of, if I heard correctly, that when a project was taken out of a transport program, such as the six projects he discussed, it could not be put back in the transport program. As a result, they would be locked in this process or in the arrangement involved. I think it's interesting, and if the senator could be able to get information about whether it's fully confirmed, because I don't remember hearing it. I'd like to ask you what. Senator, I clearly don't come up with all the questions now: Why do people choose these PPP projects? Why is that passage gone if it is so obvious that it is more practical when it comes to the public treasure?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u61	President. Why are they taking the PPP? I only see one reason. By this means the secretary of transportation can choose his tasks, of course, with the approval of the council. However, it is no doubt part of this three - man arrangement that he will be allowed to rule fairly freely over his legal group. He could not do so in the framework of a transportation program, but he could do so by taking the assignments outside. If he takes a job... [[Up front.]] When we discussed this matter, I was told by a diplomat. Isn't that the way it is? Don't I get it right? Once this transport program has been adopted and a five - year plan has been implemented, it is not revised until three years from now, is it not? I went over the law, and I think it's three years, I can check it. Then they are locked out of work until it is time to revise these items. Then you either have to wait a lot longer, and you don't know where your priorities are when you put them back in, or people just accept to take this 33% extra load and pay it all for themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u62	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for this. This explains only what he was trying to mean, that until the next revision of the plan, these projects are on the outside. There's something else I'd like to ask you. To this day, the lawsuit of many Pirata has been marked because there seems to be some prince in progress that it must always be established as to what is being approved and where men are going. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in the way he likes to agree here with this ohf.How or an idea that is part of this transport package all together, where a government fund is actually being placed in the position of having an open check on this city line. Does it look any different than any other project? [[Up front.]] You're absolutely right. Hv. A senator mentioned here could not answer questions. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, was about a certain number of expenses. [[Up front.]] We must ask, Is it realistic to write up an unpublished check for a government fund when it comes to the city line?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u63	President. Of course, it is not realistic or justified in signing an unpublished check. This is what we've seen going on here in the Senate Hall. Of course, we did it to some extent when the first Covid package of the government came in. Then everybody was in a punk, nobody knew what it would be like, and so on. All council members, and all members of Congress decided to stand together and try to work hard, assemble a pack of measures to save what would be saved. One example was that part - time improvement was estimated to be an estimated amount but then 20 times more expensive, and ended where? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u64	Forty-five times more expensive.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u65	She ended up being 45 times more expensive. What did 80 billion end?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u66	Thirty-seven billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u67	Thirty-seven billion, yeah, I got it a little higher. This is an example of an unpublished check. No, of course he is not justified.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for his speech. I'd like to mention here that when it comes to the Pirate Congregation, he's in my part at the People's Council, as with the Middle Ages, but at the scene of Reykjavík, they're in more part. They're in positions of authority, they're in power. They are in charge of the largest and most important category in Reykjavík, perhaps after the financial situation, which is transport. That is why I feel that it is necessary to talk to him. Senator on Pirata's policies to important matters affecting Reykjavíkurburg and the capital area. It has now been noted that in order to form city authorities and other higher cases, the waterway may not seem to be high on top of the list. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator I really don't want to be responsible for any of the decisions at the scene of the city council, but I know that this is the dominant congregation he belongs to here: What is the position Pirata has to make on the important road of transportation and the safety issues associated with, which are the Daffways? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u69	President. Yes, I realize that the Central Congregation is also in a smaller part of the city as here, and I'm sure it's not feeling well there, but it's a good habit, some of them. They do well to criticize, etc. However, it must always be done on the basis of evidence and logic, being critical of that criticism, and being ready to commend people when they do well. As far as Pirata's policy is concerned about Sunwater, there's no Pirata's approved on Sunwater. As a senator says, I'm not responsible for the Council of Porta. I wasn't even a member of the community, I was living in Garðatown for a year, and I wasn't already chosen, and I'm not even responsible. If there's something conflicting with the emphasis on the matter of Congress, we'll talk on perplexity and try to explain how things are. It's working very well, but I haven't had a conversation with the mayor of Porta when it comes to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I'll allow myself to assume, if I understand him correctly, that Pirats really didn't shape a policy in the major cause that may be beyond what may be determined at the scene of the Council of Mayor or related to his party. But there's another matter that I'm very interested in, and it's that Piratars are responsible for the crime scene of the city, with a great deal of emphasis on the so-called city line. This is to be illustrated by the fact that nearly 50 billion are to be put in place, according to the Ohf bill. which is to be formed, while it is to be placed just over 50 billion in courses. It is now, for example. a number of people who have a job and play a very important role in serving as elderly people at home. There are, for example. Nurses who visit the elderly, physical therapists, these are food shipments, and other such items, of every kind of service. What are some ideas? A senator and perhaps according to his experiences, a group of the scope of this service and the journey it calls on here in the capital area? Is the idea that this service depends on the city line? Should all these people travel along a city line that has this vital service in behalf of elderly ones who seek to live in their homes for as long as they are available?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u71	President. If I understand the senator, he was discussing a matter in the realm of Reykjavík. I just have, like, a thousand and one thing to put first, priorities for the way I work here at the council. My job is even. to keep the constitution. Then my job is to make sure that our base policy is respected at the General Assembly, which is a protection and a promotion of civil rights and democracy. Then, in that principle, there are all kinds of policy issues. I've been on a business committee for a long time, and I've got to look out for and I've done well, and the senator nod his head, that I've been doing all right by making sure that this view of the law of Pirata fits into them, as well as the Book of Pirats. ... thatisinthiscontinent in this chamber. Of course, I have to make sure that public interest is guided. This is my priorities. That means I haven't been able to get involved in the enormous interesting task of the city line. If I understand anything about it, it's a priority which means that, with all kinds of reasons, you can pay for traffic and that also means it pays for those who don't meet the criteria, because there are more ways to go. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u72	Mr. President. I couldn't afford to come up here and discuss a road program, since one of the biggest programs being covered at Congress regularly. In particular, I couldn't help discussing it because it was one of the most planned programmes that I had been waiting for when I was an employee of the Fourth Western Union and then the later employee of Akureyritown, and since after budget, the transport programme has in so many ways most impacted the lives of citizens in many parts of the country. Here we make decisions about tunnels and the reduction in single bridges, on all kinds of emphasis, on future vision, and on transport goals for the next 14 years. How important it is that this document is well worked and well done! Sadly, I did not get involved in the first discussion, but I felt that it was important to come up now. I like to say, though, that in many ways I like the available transportation program, there are many good things in it. Also, I feel that there is something good about the committee, and I agree deeply with many of its statements, especially in committees. paritaprevir Brjánsson, Conspiracy. There are just a few things I wanted to discuss here today. It's like I said a lot of good and interesting things in the transport program we're discussing here. What I might find especially enjoyable to see was that it was taking on a larger scale, with a clear increase in the interest of the public in using bicycles, both as a means of transportation and as a means of recreation and training, and especially after the Covid epidemic, we see that the bike is essentially on the world scene. This may not only be explained by the closing of the gymnasium, but I think it had something to say that during and after the epidemic, people may have been slightly unsure or stressed about using public transportation where they are stuck. Wheels are a natural solution to it. But what I found positive in this transport program is also shown in the committee's view, not to build a bicycle path between the cores of the country. It's extremely important, I think, and it's a fine example of that, for example. In the island, how footprints have changed things, like a new path that runs from Akureyri and inside it is very much used and really fun to watch how it is often the best investments, not necessarily in transportation, but in sports or what is called public investments, because somehow it works when the steps are covered, especially in such beautiful paths, people will be using them and I can say that there is always someone to use the path between the Akureyri and the French, although the wind and the rain are out. Mr. President. I wanted to swerve a few points in particular, and I want to start my winter service. I just came in on her in answer to what happened. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson before us about the importance of transport maintenance. Sadly, we are far too eager to let it go, and unfortunately, we see many examples of that, e.g. To the west, where there are no longer roads that are no longer traveling like a piece of Bilddal Road, where there is a hole by a hole and almost just a hole, it's gotten bad there, and there are a number of other examples of that. As a result, the safety of the roads is not acceptable. Happily, though, they are taking steps to correct them now and are long - term. But I still wanted to mention something as important as winter service. It's something that is most useful to those who live in Iceland, but also to tourists. Mr. President. We're putting money, which is well, in building up roads like, for example. Way to go. What a fine example that is! Finally, we see to it that we have a well - watered destination for both Iceland and our visiting guests, one of the most wateriest falls we have in Europe, at least one of the most wateriest falls in Europe. But if the winter season is not to be kept open, why is it being taken safely? This is essential, as we build our roads, and, of course, we are building a very handsome road system. But what is the point if we are not even going to keep the road open? I think it's really important, and I agree with that point as it is. paritaprevir Guðjón's Brjánsson points out in his committee list, and sadly, winter service does not seem to be one of the priorities of the inhabitants of more scattered areas. Also, since I now believe most people, I made it clear in the news repeatedly during winter, that the roads were closing. To film, my husband and I landed in a long line of cars when the Oxnal Valley was finally opened just before Christmas. It was the longest row of cars I've ever seen. We spent an hour, or more, an hour and a half, over the pagans that usually take about 20 minutes. At that time, we were in tens of miles [15 km] behind the marshes. I think it's important to consider increasing this escort drive, and I think there's a lot of opportunities to do that. Of course it's gonna cost you, but I think it would be cheaper in the end of that kind of escorting you than in landing on pagans and having to send up the rescue or the road crew after picking up people. Also, I think it would be important to be able to trust that when a place is quiet and clear, it will be safe. Mr. President. I'm just gonna split up by the roads and move to the airport. I'm glad to hear that this is the first time we have a flight policy for Iceland. Of course, it is positive to see specific structural steps, especially at the airport at Egls, which will be defined especially as the Keflavívik airport backup airport. A great opportunity lies in strengthening the airports that are the Eglies, as well as the Akureyri Airport, and also in building up and using the time we now have in the low service to reorganize it, and opening more portals into the country. We saw it and have many reports that it was not sustainable to dump all the tourists through one portal into the country. We also saw what's so interesting and interesting, Mr. President, in the opportunities that have been created in Akureyri, to form where rent flights have been made from both England and the Netherlands, there come tourists who would otherwise not have come to the country. In other words, we are expanding the cake rather than taking it away from others. It's a key point, and I think there's a lot of opportunity for us to continue that work, and I think it's very important to approach the project with an open mind and participate in that work. In our discussion, some people forget that flights in Iceland are actually public transportation. This is a public transport for Iceland's citizens to crosslands, and the flight is extremely important. I talked about it earlier in the week, where we stepped in to the electricalization of the flight. We started discussing the old mail flight when I spoke to you about it. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy about the opportunities involved that by means of the electric planes, it may have been less expensive to fly between positions and the possible opportunity to re-open old landing sites and to increase the number of routes. [[Up front.]] Yes, exactly. But what I find exciting about it is that we're going back to thinking our pipeline over because, as it is today, it's all flying through Reykjavík, which is good and blessed, and we all have to get to Reykjavík, and we want to get the city of the capital area out of the country as well as what I love so much, and it wasn't for so many years, e.g. Flights between Akureyri and Ísafjörður and Akureyri and Eglish status, etc. We need to consider the possibility of retake that flight, possibly only on smaller machines as it was at the time. Perhaps I should inform me about my personal interests in the case where I am living in Akureyri but should be rooted and rooted on the ice, and sometimes it's a little far away. Still, there are about seven hours of driving from Akureyri to Isenafjörður, but this would be only about half an hour of flight, if it were so long. I think we also need to start rethinking public transportation. We have airplanes and buses, and then we have ferrys. Now a very interesting project is being carried out, in June, in Akureyri, decided to put money on free business. Hopefully there will be an extension because there is a complete explosion at the visits of Icelanders and others to the island, and it has never seen as many visitors as it is now as after the ferry was made free of charge, suggesting that the small price on the ferry is clearly available to someone. In fact, a trip had to be added last weekend because people were so excited to come to Piglet. We've got more squares and more islands, we've got Gambiey e.g. which is an example of a place in Iceland that is very remarkable, e.g. In Iceland, but unfortunately, it's not as accessible as it might be. I think it's an opportunity to reexamine it, too, Mr. President. Now that I'm starting to talk about the squares, I'm going to move to the docking and the docks. The oceans are, as most know, the bioenergy of oceanic communities. There's a huge deal of business, it's key to getting to the gold sea, picking up the fish, and bringing it to shore. Of course, they also serve where it is. It has been very interesting to observe in recent years that they have also played a key role in the welcome of cruise ships in the country, at least Even if we have also seen cruiseers visiting smaller places, such as Piglet, larger ports around the country. I'd like to remind you, Mr. President, that before the council there is a case that I am the first transporter to, that there will be a policy for the reception of cruise ships. I think that now that we've got a little low on coming cruise ships because of Covid, it's just a chance to win such a course and see how we want to build up that part of our tourism. But because I was doing the tourism thing, I wanted to do a little bit of a recent tourist service here in Iceland, a tourist attraction. In particular, I refer to the 800 - mile [800 km] journey of northern subcontinents. It leads from Hahmblan to the West to Backfjords in the East, extending through 17 rural communities, more or less, and 21 towns or villages, and this is a cooperation project in the Northland where all these rural communities have come together and are building tourist routes and marking interesting places and making everything a little more accessible to people. I drove the west part of last year in a black fog, probably one of the blackest fog I've ever seen, at least long. But it was quite exciting to go with her, and really fun to use such a way to get tourists where you wouldn't go all the way. Mr. President. My time was getting shorter, and I finally wanted to create energy exchanges in transportation. There is, of course, something about this at the council resolution as well as in the committee's list of parts, and especially in committees. paritaprevir Brjánsson, speaking of something I miss a bit in the leading party of the greater part, i.e. An electricalization of flights and the opportunities to do that. We've talked about it a bit, the Group of Nations, and I'm the first agent to suggest, that a course will be developed for an electricalization of flights, because I think this technology is much closer to us than we realize. We're talking about five or eight years until the Norwegians and the Swedes are going to have electrical flights, and we're not supposed to stay behind. Also exciting news that I think it's early in Cheflavík that Iceland will be a loading place for electric planes flying between North America and Europe. I think there's a huge opportunity. We must not be overly skeptical about the future and let it pass through us. In this context, to end the positive, we must be glad that funding has been placed in preparation for an electricisation. In fact, I think it takes a lot more to do better with that, but it also has huge opportunities, and we see it precisely through the development of Icelandic technology, e.g. The Icelandic marine mall, with a company working on a ship that will be run by electricity. This is the future, Mr. President. And we should look to the future and not wait because we have no faith or dare.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u73	Mr. President. I want to start my case because of you. A candidate for extensive talks. I'm gonna let me mention that. A senator represents a political party that is not in my section, such as here at the General Assembly, in the largest country society in the country of Reykjavík. As if it were interesting to talk to what? Pirata's senator in charge of organizational matters in the city, then there's trouble. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter represents a class leading to the city of Reykjavík, which has been much more than that for a very long time. It's called, you know, lead party. We will discuss an important issue that is the Sunway, which is of utmost importance in the first place to connect the capital to the Westland. Second, when they agreed to be a part of Reykjavík, I let me tell you, for the people of Kiliness, that the Sun path would be placed. So I've got a lot of attention to it, so I'll let myself say it in Icelandic, but that more part of the city's city of Reykjavík is coming up in this important matter. This case does not appear to reach land or coast during a seemingly high priority case, such as a city line. Transportation in the capital area is presented to us in a transport program that we are discussing here, but it is also in another form, which is next on the agenda. The establishment of the official part of the European Union on the construction of transport in the capital area and on the involvement of states and rural communities. I want this round to ask you why. A member of Parliament: is a man of some kind. A member of the council agrees with the emphasis given to the city's leading party in Reykjavík on the Sunway, that it is held somewhere aside and in some dark section while other projects are being given way higher and that this matter has been over a long period of time draughted? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator accepts that?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u74	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A very good question for the Ólafur of Ísleifsson. I want to see the Sunway, and the Conspiracy supports the Sunway. That's not what it's about. That's not the problem. Of course, people disagree about the exact way to handle it, and it is normal for that conversation to be taken. But because I thought it was a problem. A senator's going down to the city line a little, I think it's the right priority to build a city line. I've been in big cities in a world where there's a hell of a fancy public transportation. There are cities like Brussels. There are New York and London, a natural historic city in which public transportation is important. Every time I've been there, I've always wondered, " Why haven't we gone any further with public transportation in Iceland than we have seen? I think having the courage to put the city line first, which most of the mayor has done, is an enormously important and big step in that direction. Better transport comes in a variety of ways to the inhabitants of the country. We know that better and more efficient transport strengthens our job life, strengthens our living conditions, that it is better to live in cities where good public transportation is needed, and that you do not always have to rely on your private car. I could go on for a long time, but I'm afraid I'm done with my time, but I look forward to answering the second answer. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm not in any way minimizing the importance of public transportation. I myself know them well here in the country and in the foreign cities I have lived in. There are a few. But the question is about priorities and emphasis. I don't doubt what's good. A senator to the Daffy Way. But by works you show the signs. By the fruit you know them, standing still. We can see from the town's capital, where the United States has been leading a group, that various decisions and measures have been taken to make it harder for the Daffway, including the region of Vogga, as reported in the news. It has also been noted in the news that this has been done in this way that the head of the road has sent a message to the city authorities as he describes that this project has been done at enormous expense, making this line much more expensive. I'm gonna ask you again, is it? A senator satisfied with this policy and convinced that there is actually some emphasis on the Sunday weekend off the mayor's section of Reykjavík?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u77	Mr. President. It's easy to answer. I trust more of the city council to set priorities correctly in this regard. I understand the emphasis the greater part places on the city line and supports it. On the other hand, a working group is working on the waterway and solutions on the track. I believe that when that group returns, they will yield to the rapid and reliable efforts of the project. But because of him. A senator said that he knew a lot about public transportation abroad, that I really understand it, especially when I'm driving in traffic in the morning, that this emphasis is placed on putting the city line in use and improving public transportation, so in itself I have nothing to do with the priorities to check.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u78	A respectable president. Hv. A senator spoke of the longest order he'd ever been in, being stuck behind a snowing device. I have had to make several trips, especially when I was out in the country. One of the longest was, I think, just at the Fun of a bus behind a snowing machine when the roads were far worse than they are today. I don't remember the whole hour, I wasn't that old, something around ten hours. The majority of it was just above the Kerns Pass and into Gravitation after all. These are the problems we face in these long mountain roads in various parts of the country. The situation has improved in recent decades, although still a long way off. On the other hand, we have a traffic jam formed here in town. I lived in the United States when I was studying. These cities are built without public transportation being considered. There's massive traffic jams there to be said to be mild. The irony is that when I was out driving there, I was very relaxed because I knew about the carpets and expected them. There was no such thing as because it was just the Holy Truth, there was nothing else. But here we are getting used to the change in traffic culture because the city has become that big and close to the mass that has, for example, that mass. Be in cities in the United States. Then you try to compare them with: What are the different priorities we have to place on the other side of the city and on the other side of the country, and how would we visualize the perfect transport system? [[The president calls.]] Why do we not have that in front of us?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví's Gunnarsson to a very interesting question. This may be just what we've lacked a little bit of the time, i.e. watching the bigger picture, having a vision. In itself, I'm going to commend the administration for the successful collapse of 2010 as a major step towards rethinking the policy of the State. In the transport program, we saw evidence that we are setting goals, priorities, and ways. Still, there is still something missing on the big conversation, i.e. that we sit down and try to support ourselves, such as the rest of us. A senator put it in the question, the system. How do we want to see the system rotten? Are we, for example, as I entered my speech earlier, fully satisfied that all travel within the country, such as on the flight, has to go through Reykjavík all the time? Or do we want to have a bigger transport network, like in the old days, when I was young? I think it's an enormously important point. A senator came in. We need to put this down for ourselves and maybe in a bigger conversation than in this house, just with the people, what service we want to do and what services we want to see and what services we even consider unnecessary. I think public transportation, both inside and outside the city, is a very important factor.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u80	A respectable president. This is exactly what we see in the transport program as it is today. They're trying to suggest a funeral plan that I believe is a very positive development in order to get a complete picture of how we complete that project. But the problem is, we don't see how it ends. We don't see what the transport system in Iceland will be like after the entire tunnel is completed. Without it, we will be far less able to make decisions as to what is best done. Similarly, the transport contract - a respectable president - was not 2 min. in the second round?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u81	1 min in the second round.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u82	As for the transport contract in the capital area, there are other solutions than those needed in many other parts of the country, just because of the density of the country, etc. I wanted to reflect on this lack of overall vision in order to have these special plans for part of the country, for the capital area in particular, and so is the big capital area, another plan from it, and then a funeral plan, and so on. Without having the big plan, you can see the overall picture with this thick network, like a curve. A senator talked about it, and we can make much worse plans for the next year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u83	Mr. President. Yeah, I think this is, like we discussed before, a key point, that we need to see the overall context. Hv. A senator named a tunnel, and we have a lot of work under which the areas where it is due to rise are of enormous importance. I think we need to go much faster on that project. We need to go much faster on building tunnels, not only because of safe road but also because of the overall context but also because of energy exchange, as mentioned. Part of it is a short shortcut. But most of all, I wholeheartedly agree with it. A senator that we need to look at the overall context of the decision of soiling and road construction as well as in the context of energy exchange.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u84	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Frabjörg the daughter of Elíasdóttir for excellent talk and extensive transportation. Since we are both local council members, my attention was focused on the fact that winter conditions came prominent in our speech, such as winter service and so on. I've been through the years, although there's not enough emphasis on transportation tunnels. It is now only growing, and it is often taking on greater baptisms in these areas and taking over because it is cheaper because it is less of a problem than building a tunnel. But if we go ahead with something, five, ten, twenty years, it's more expensive just because winter service is much more expensive. I'd like to ask the senator, " How can we turn that trend around and start calculating this in the long run? ' Likewise, in terms of flying electricalization, the welcome of cruise ships, the welcome of cruise ships, the ability to drive electricity instead of light engines, and the electricalization of flights. Maybe I'll come up with a better question in the second answer, so I'm gonna make it work now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u85	Mr. President. What has been forgotten so often is to count the cost ahead, the cost of maintenance, and winter service. Especially do we see this after such heavy winters as it was now that it takes a lot of money to keep the roads open. Sadly, in some cases, the road industry may choose to open more slowly, or it may be kept open rather than pay overtime and so on. Of course, I respect it to those who run the road because it can't be easy not to get enough money to keep open, and it can't be easy to make decisions. Although I as a resident will always be as miserable as I am when I don't make my way, I still show an understanding that this is probably a difficult decision, and that's why I'm not scrutinizing them, but, in fact, we, who are the guardians for not giving them enough money to keep the roads open. But that's right. A senator came into the question about the tunnel and the winter service that we need to calculate the complete package. It also contains this social cost, as well as the maintenance and winter service of longer distances, increasing the maintenance of cars and the increased use of oil that will soon be replaced by electricity, food, and hydrogen. But it also costs everything, and with shorter roads, and with safer roads, we also achieve the social cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u86	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. Of course, it is up to us politicians to make decisions about tunnels. It's just been shown, like. And the tunnel under the valley, that they might pay themselves in the end, because there was wages there. There's something I can support in further projects in many parts of the country, and I've often talked about it, e.g. D.C., U.S.A., passed through the Gufudal Deserts and the surrounding region. There is now a council proposal for the Grinch's tunnel, so there are some exciting times ahead. But only to the electricalization of a flight. On a job committee, we visited Icellands last year, and then I asked them about these matters. They said that working on some kind of electric or electric accolades is rapidly developing. In connection with the Parliamentary decrees of the United Nations, her members must have obtained more information on these matters. Hv. A senator spoke of five or ten years. Has a what? A senator received information that this is so short?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u87	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. You see, it's so remarkable that this work is going on in our neighboring countries, with our cousins, so I use it. In Norway and Sweden, they have developed tremendously rapid trends that by the year 2040, they will have become electricalized. There they go faster, in part because they have set this goal, work on it, and put money in it. One of the stakeholders involved in this is Nordic Innovation, an institution under the Northern Council to which we are a party. We should easily participate in that work with them through the Council of the North and, of course, through our good cooperation with the North countries. I believe this is going to work. Maybe I'm wrong, but at least we can't get anywhere if we're not going there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u88	Mr. President. I want my second talk on a road safety program and road label. Besides, I'd like to come into the traffic only. Although they may not be many today, they may well increase, but they were numerous before the epidemic began. Sadly, there are many examples here on the country of unacceptable road markings and although this has certainly been tried to correct in recent years, significant improvements need to be made. Looks like both signs and surface markings. They are often inaccurate and inexpensive, as surface markings tend to be. At times, it just seems that when road markings are involved, they simply do not seem to be too good for work, and somehow they get leftovers. This was a fine consideration in the morning newspaper of traffic safety and has, for example, been provided. Often, it is attracted to my judgment for too long to the surface of the road that has recently been crushed. We know that once there's been a malbig road, it's quite dark, especially in the dark or when the winter begins to fall. It is necessary to speed up surface markings when the Arab project is completed. For example, the example shows that inaccurate signs on highways increase the chances of accidents, such as accidents. it is all too common to lack cross lines or to have a hard surface label attached to it to make it indistinguishable. I think most of the people here know that. When it comes to foreign tourists, it is very important that we have clear meanings because many of them are not accustomed to driving, but I am following them more closely. In addition, it has been discussed with bridges and the importance of laying them off and double bridges. That is exactly what has been emphasized by the Society of Icelandic automobile owners, as well as the meaning of simple bridges. This usually leads to an intensification point, followed by a triangle and a sign indicating that the road is tight. Me and the Icelanders usually follow the rule that the one who takes the bridge first. But such things do not exist in foreign lands, nor do foreigners know that arrangement. This has rightly been pointed out by the France's car owners, so it would be better to have the signal that cars coming from one direction should be the priority while cars from the other direction need to be removed. I noticed, though, when I went through the Southland recently, that there are some words in English that lie ahead of me a single - build bridge. That's good. However, meaning which one comes first is lacking. I think there's something you need, as was pointed out to me. of Icelandic car owners' partner. Inconsistencies in meaning can also create bad traffic culture. If meanings are not clear enough, drivers learn that driving rules are somewhat vague and may not be fully reliant. This is what I'd like to say about the importance of taking over the road markings and surface markings. All I want to do is come in on the road into foreign tourists. As I said before, there's not much about them here and now because of the virus epidemic, but it's going to grow again. Before the epidemic, there were a lot of tourists and a lot of rental cars on the road. Sadly, the fact is that in recent years, disasters and serious accidents of foreign tourists have not been reduced. Of course, that's a lot of concern. Tourism stresses the increased risk of disaster for international tourists, and many in society view accidents in foreign tourists as a serious problem, so it is very important to identify the problem at all times so that they know where to lay on prevention. If you want to look at the users of the road system, there are many factors to consider, such as road culture and drivers' education. Many Asian countries visit us and use the road system as well as the winter, but there are other ways of making traffic. In particular, drivers' education is much less relaxed than we are used to. Simple factors, such as markings and signs, are not consistent between European countries and Asia. Then we have the requirement for drivers' education that is not uniform and that could be counted for a long time. All of these are risk factors that we need to take with increased prophylaxis. The Road Building Fund had a report on the safety of foreign tourists three years ago, and a number of interesting observations are made. A study of types of accidents among road tourists reveals that the two most common species are driven by a straight road on the right or left side of the road. I say again, let's go straight. Foreign drivers are more likely to have problems with traffic that meets the straight road. This is most likely linked because they have not gotten used to driving on such narrow roads in their own country. We know it in many parts of the country, e.g. In the land of Myrdal, and in the South, and in other places, the roads are unscrupulously narrow. Sadly, visitors are too common to drive vehicles. As a result of driving too fast under the circumstances, you may lose control of your car. The report has an interesting analysis of how accidents are spreading to people who come to our home. Americans and the British are our frequent guests, but the number of injured people is relatively low in these nations. The British call attention to the low incidence of accidents in the area where they live left traffic in their own country. Another focus is the high proportion of southern Europeans, countries such as Italian and Spanish, and have a share. It should be noted by insurance companies, which directed information to automobiles to specifically inform drivers from the countries about the dangers they may face in driving. There's a lot of China's ratio, but it's rumor that Chinese driving courses are not high. In other words, nationalities of injured foreign tourists need to be carefully monitored and protected accordingly. Car rent has identified a lack of road meaning system and should be warned of dangers in advance, as is done abroad. Meanings need to be in foreign languages, and the danger must be warned with sufficient notice. Mr. President. We need to shape this policy here for the use of foreign text on traffic and services. I think it's inevitable, simply because safety is above everything. In short, the results of this fine report are that the number of accidents in foreign tourists is increasing. There are also concerns about the alleged lack of knowledge by tourists in Icelandic conditions and have been particularly pointed to by the last feature on Asian tourists. The road system has been discussed in this connection, e.g. alone bridges and lacks of roads and exits. This too has been during the discussion. This is my introduction in a second discussion of transport plans because it is urgent to improve traffic safety and to consider especially the prevention and driving of foreign tourists in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u89	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator had a conversation with his last talk on a report of cost-benefit analysis that was appropriate. A senator had not read. I sent the report to him on that occasion more than a week ago. I would like to know if since then the senator studied that report and analysis. I sent a few notes on what really matters there and showed him what he was discussing in his talk. Based on the report and the discussion that has taken place here, the Central Party is actually not offering suggestions on what to do instead of the city line. He goes fingers into the expense of the city line, but he has nothing in return. And based on that report and its findings, I would simply like to ask, "Why is the Central Party an antidote? " The report reviews how the improvement will be at least 115 billion in 25 years, while the cost of operating is up to 9 billion for city lines in particular, for similar projects that have been carried out. Instead of just doing what we've always done, we go to the building work now under the capital contract. The result is 115 billion in 25 years or so. Is this not the very present state of affairs necessary? The middle class has just criticized, I've heard how irresponsible it is to go out on costly projects during this year's trip, on so much debt and tilt, when financial advisers have advised us that projects that will make us more stable and firm in public finance. [[The president calls.]] There is a firm preconceivability there and a future yield. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u90	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists, and I thank him for sending me this report that I have only looked into, but I have not had time to review it precisely. At least I'd like to point them out. There is a senator who has more research on the project, and I would like to mention a recent study as a student at Iceland's University, and Professor Ragnar Árnason was an instructor. This led to an immediate conclusion regarding the city line project. So there are different opinions on that matter. I have stressed it in this case, and why. A senator knows this, and we agree that there is a trust in the financial resources of the state. Many aspects of the project are unclear, making it very difficult, first of all, from a financial point of view, to agree with the agreement that has been submitted in the absence of any kind. the article "How Would You Answer? " A senator, the cost of transportation to the government's facilities and research facilities in Köldnaland - is just one factor - but there may be some billions. There are other such factors that are unclear at the expense of the project. From my point of view, accepting a project that may involve more cost for the state's funds is not prerequisite to me. I specifically mentioned that the total cost of food is an abnormal of 7 billion. There's no talk of who to pay for it. So, for example, is it to be paid by a government fund according to its 75% holding section? [[The president calls.]] My introduction to the discussion has been that I don't feel that the state fund is committed to this kind of commitment in the past when these uncertainty factors exist and in the light of the position we are dealing with in terms of the wealth of state. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u91	A respectable president. There's a lot to do these days. I respect the senator's failure to have had time to read the 102 - page report from cover to cover. I've had to look into it myself again. I read it better some time ago. You had to think about these things. The same is true of the study as it was. A senator referred to him. I need to recall it to dig up the reasons I found there and had something to consider. It's just going to be a continuation of that discussion. I look forward to it. On the other hand, what has been discussed in the budget panels, and for example. As a review of earlier financial resources, the increase in commitments and productions of government officials does not necessarily reduce the maintenance level if an observed improvement occurs. In the context of the question. There is certainly one point to consider: What will be done with the Agency in Köldnaland? There are differences in the cost of making decisions, and so on. However, the levels there are small compared to the total amount of profit that we see to be carried out. There are hundreds of millions and billions of them. It's going to be very easy to cover the project. It would be irresponsible, I would say, not to take on lucrative projects for the loan we're taking from the future when the payer himself pays back the loan instead of having a debt in the future. In all the scenarios we can see, in view of the potential benefits, given the cost of operating, this project is clearly available. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Whatever the exact application is made clear, the adulation is obvious.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u92	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists, and I'll agree with that with what. In today's unemployment, unemployment, and recession, a member of the body of elders felt that it is important for the state's funds to come into lucrative investments. I agree with that. But here we are just talking about a project of enormous magnitude, that there are some 50 billion dollars. From state funds. The project is listed as some 70 billion. Then we're talking about a city line. The total cost is between 63◯70 billion. We have some 7 billion unsecures. Who's going to pay them? That's unclear. What if a new land, or property, for buildings that are already in Köldnaland cost some billions? Hv. A senator is soon up to 10 billion. It's just a lot of money that we don't know how to switch between state and city. [[...a hundred.]] Then there are variations and other unforeseen costs. How do you split it? There's nothing to say about that. Is the state to take over 75%? Is that supposed to be 50%? I have not concluded that this is sufficient for me to sign. It takes 3 billion to double the Sleenes Way from Sakoshun and Lonakoti into the Krysuviks. It has been a struggle for many years, and it has finally become a reality. This is the most dangerous highway in the country. Finally, the project will be carried out in 2022. That's 3 billion. This refers to a project of 70 billion. Hv. A senator is already talking about the profit. I have doubts that this, as it is suggested today, is as profitable as it is. A senator will discuss this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What really makes the use of this means of transportation possible? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A project for 50 billion from the state funds and 70 billion total budgets that will probably be considerably greater than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u93	V.E.G. President. Here we discuss a five - year - long, 2034 road transport program, and the discussion has been very interesting. I just want to stay in the country because I'm from there and I've been missing. Although I fully agree to the need for transportation right here in the capital area, I still intend to wait on it. This huge investment need to be up to 400 billion in order to achieve a balanced estimate of the road system must be of concern. We should take it to ourselves, politicians, that we have not gone beyond this in transport, in basic business with the people. As I said in my last speech, however, I am very pleased to see the cohesiveness of the transport committee to do what is within their power to correct the issues that can be fixed compared to the items that are being destroyed, for when it was proposed in the fall, the transport program was not now pleasant enough to look out. I thought back in time, how things have worked out, and then I thought of projects that brought much attention over the years, major projects. Some of these have been performed, and others have been postponed for many years. I'd like to start with the famous forest route that has not yet begun, but ashelf under and actually has a bell before. She was ready to tender in 2006. Then you might say: The restésté, as stated in Icelandic or otherwise, excuse me, Mr. President. This has led to lawsuits and various other problems. I was here in answer to what. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flandrafjörður the daughter of Elíasdóttir earlier, and we talked about tunnels. On the way through Chets Forest, we can say that there is a tunnel that would probably have been a better way, looking at the environmental factors that appear to be what inhibits it. This is much more expensive, but it may be less expensive for a long time. When the city bridge was built at the time of its dedication in 1981, society was a success. It was said that only bridges were being made for the Borgians, so they had a shortcut to Reykjavík. Of course, it is shorter for them, but it is like a farm for all the people of the country to have this bridge as both sides and to shorten the way west and north to land. 1998 Vaults taken into use were very difficult to deal with. Then there is the waterway that has not yet been made up. But if you go to the Sunday and the time that she has been discussing, it was the first time you saw it in the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York in 1984. In 1994, the Djord was made up of highways on a road program and was an essential link to the capital - capital platform. In the main area of the city of Reykjavík, the region of 2001◯2004, it was introduced into the main organization and assumed that the road would be defined as a means of forming in a controversation program of 2003◯2006. The circuit was ready for tenders, but nothing has yet happened, and it can only be said that the city authorities worked against this road. There is a land where the road was to lead to other projects, and it is totally incomprehensible that this has not gone any further because it is in sight as to how it would improve transportation, in terms of distances and security, if this road was to be laid. Only about the tunnels, too, because I came to them earlier in reply. It showed that it was totally up to us politicians to control it. There's always been a blame for making the Vega when there's no money left for maintenance, when there's no money for winter service, and so on. For example, when it comes to such roads as mountain roads and roads that are difficult to travel through during winter, it is more often than done to cross the mountain rather than through it because it often costs and often double more than it is in the long run. Maintenance and winter service are very expensive and often unpredictable. The winter was very heavy, but for some reason the estimated capital was pulled back because it came out of calculations that it had been minus anywhere two to three years ago. This was to be withdrawn from the maintenance of roads, from the snowstorm, in winter, and from those serving in the winter service, the sails had to be pulled out of it, and the service of the road had to be shorter. Yet, the winter as it was was was, and it was very difficult to move. I don't understand why we're not doing any better than this getting these things going on that everyone can be happy. Then it is always so that when a road is being constructed in one place, people in another begin to complain that the road is not fixed by it. That is why we politicians need to make a much more thorough process of travel that will last so that people will see it in the future that their territory is somewhere on the list. I think it may be said that transport plans have almost never been successful until very short time, and in such cases it's very bad that the credibility is not there. It is very bad that there is no evidence of credibility because there is so much at stake. Now my time is up, and I'm getting really hot.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u94	A respectable president. It is quite fun to cover and cross the Sunway and the work it has been doing in this century and longer. The external route of the term has been a major structure at least Since 2001, nothing necessarily drawn them and has been translated and produced more accurately since 2010. Then there is the inner route, a so - called island solution recommended by the Roadmaker, probably mainly because it is less expensive. If you look at only the area it enters, it's a little beginning to the traffic jams and delay that penetrates the Smokey Way from Seatrack. Although she should skim at the Aarhus by some way, the traffic still meets, around the leaf that is there on the Grand Way, Smokejanes Way, and Seatrack, which really means she's not much relief, except that the traffic is going to turn something over to the Seatrack, but the traffic isn't entirely thoughtless as such. You wonder, " Is the inner route really the future solution to traffic? Is the inner route a little back into the Grand Way instead of pointing out on Sea Lane if the outer route had gone? ' Then there would be people who would be going the inside route or a vast highway to travel the Altaics and Great Way, whereas people who are going the outer route would usually take Sea Route, and that would not result in the formation of the condensation that is being attempted to avoid.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u95	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I did not judge by the fact that the senator had a question - yes, he had a comparison. [[It was a comparison.]] The Senator refers to the waterway, the outer route, and the inner route, as well as the way the road is measured by less expensive. I'll bet that the roadmaking doesn't have that much money so that it can go as far as it would like to go. It must be a better investment to go on a more secure route and to make easier transportation, though more expensive. How much is one accident? What are the costs of traffic congestion and so forth? It was a bit of a theme in my speech that you have to make a choice and go on ways that are useful because there is no tenting until one night when you're making such a move. I remember that when the Sunway had hit the project at the turn of the century, the external route was just what was to occur on top and the cheaper option was retrospected later. But I'm not quite sure. It's sad, though, that you have to get so bored and complicated.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u96	A respectable president. I wholeheartedly agree with what I have to say. A senator on this matter. The problem with financing is definitely on our level, but, of course, in cooperation with the local community, since the main organization is being done there and we are not about to take the main structure power of our rural communities to cover our appropriate behavior. Of course, we'd like to have analysis and a benefit analysis, etc. to make informed decisions about budgeting for one or another. You're absolutely right. One senator says that in the long run, an expensive advantage may be better. But it may not be directly available whether there is a difference between internal and external routes unless other external means, such as I traced a previous answer to traffic flows, may be harder to evaluate. Then you can assume that the traffic that goes to the outer route will flow more onto Seatrack instead of going back into the Grand Way, which involves the time saved, which is calculated, for example. in the building report on the capital area, with the city line and the like. I'd love to see those analyses. I haven't seen the reports on them exactly, I don't remember the council getting them. But if we have it in our hands and if it is obvious, it should be relatively easy to finance it. For some reason it's, like, cot. A senator says, at least not being done for 20 years, which is tragic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u97	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the second answer. Yes, it would be interesting to see this report. The Senator only introduced the organizational authority of his community. Then I'm back on my mind. When it comes to making and designing mountain roads, which may be frequent and frequent, it is better to enter a tunnel, not to listen to people who are familiar with localities, and to name a few mountain roads in this regard. I'm not going to do it right now, but I know several mountain roads that will be unable because the road was not laid, since the people who knew the area best recommended it. They were not listened to. They were considered murmurers, or eccentrics, or something like that. As a result, everything will be maintenance of much more expensive and more trouble and more failure. Therefore, there is a need to be careful and listen to all viewpoints in such matters. But it must also be clear that governments provide that lines and those who work on these matters in order to do so in the best possible way. It is all too often that the road is blamed for some design or such. But it may be that it is more important for us politicians to teach and smooth preparation for this work and that we could make it right.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u98	Mr. President. In my first talk on this subject, I especially discussed domestic flights and airports. It is a rather sad reading, not a fixed word, to me, for it is simply described that in many places airports lack the requirements for them. It is said to have to be adjusted but completely unclear how to do so, i.e. I don't exactly remember how the word was about it, it was something like looking for ways to find money and not get it done. This seems rather odd in view of large pronouncements about advancing domestic flights and of all the numbers about the Scottish route. In fact, I only attended that discussion and the Scottish route of my first talk. This was followed by the governor Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brjölflffjordsdóttir that the Scottish route in Scotland is merely about strengthening the people of the most notorious settlements to enable them to buy air tickets, one or two, rather than having general support for domestic flights as public transportation. So I asked myself, " How would the government see how to bring in the Scottish route, since the plan is missing? ' A couple of them came up here. Councilmen, each with his own theory of how they wanted to see this and well. I hope that this will be the most widespread and hopefully it won't be like Scotland, but you would have wanted to see that place in the transport program, especially in view of the fact that it's greatly drawn up in the construction of Iceland's national airports, not to mention Reykjavík's airport and all the sad history. I had proclaimed that I would discuss the city's city area of Reykjavík more than I'm going to wait on it for a little while and say this good for now because there's something else I have to go to this transport program. In this talk, I will concentrate on public transportation. This, of course, is an account for them. In the plan, under Section 2.3, the aims for economic transport are so speculationd, I don't think they can be called anywhere else, about the road system, and the user fees, and then in the next chapter on the so-called cooperative work. It does not make any sense, but it ponders on the one hand and on the other hand, and, of course, linked, the cooperation of public members and private companies with the building of the road system. Then we come to the public transport, for it is only a firm word for what is about to take place, and we recall that this is a matter of government and community transport agreements in the capital area. I think it's best, Mr. President, that I read this brief chapter to speak out of it. But the plan says, under the hands of public transportation in the capital area, by permission of a president: In force, the Association of Company Associations in the capital area, SSH, and the State treats public transport projects in an area of about 1 billion U.S. This year, to strengthen against the continuation of major projects in the area. Among other things, it is intended to double the share of public transport from 4% to 8% in all roads within the capital area, compared to 2011 for 2022. Already there is a goal that will not work. When this was started, the percentage of travel began, and this State's strength began, a billion per year to promote public transportation in the capital area, was 4%. Nearly a decade later, it was 4%, but it pointed out that there was only an increase in passengers, but, of course, the number of residents has also increased. This has done virtually nothing but the construction stop, which was a factor. You see, the meeting meant that while we would be stopped, we would be building a means of transportation in the capital area. A bigger project would be put on hold for a decade, think about it, as long as this test project was carried out. It's been going down for a decade. The public transportation project has failed. So here's what we're saying, with President's permission: ▪ The U.S. access to public transportation in the capital area and its construction territory has meant improved service with more frequent travel and longer driving time, and there has been a considerable increase in passengers. - This is what I could in the past because the population has increased without increasing proportion. - September 26th, with the signing of the transport contract. For example, representatives of state and rural society signed an agreement to revise the current agreement to 12 years of age, or to 2034. That work should be completed before the end of 2020. In other words, this amazing attempt to stop transport reforming in the capital area did not work out: The problem was that the State set a billion a year in public transportation in the capital area. It didn't work out. And how do governments respond when they are faced in the next decade? They are extending to 2034 jobs that did not succeed. Of course, it's quite extraordinary, Mr. President, even when people give themselves a decade and billions of dollars on top of a test project and when it turns out it's not working out, what's the response? To carry on with the project. That's because it's not making decisions based on facts, from what works, but from some sort of fanciful romance. But then, public transportation status in general. Mr. President. I've been using bus quite a bit over the years. During high school and college years, I used to go to bus, and I thought it was nice, and I think it's very important that we maintain a powerful public transportation. It was not always easy. The bus walked every half hour in Selland, and of course it was my fault that many times and times I missed it because I came too late. The weather was not always good. I remember that, for example. that once I had to breathe through my mouth like that, the saliva poured everything out of my mouth so quickly that when I arrived at the station, I had an icebox on my right cheek, but the bus was gone because I was late or bus too early. I don't know if it was that time. I continued to use bus and did not get a car until I was well - off in my 30's. So I have lived in cities abroad where I never missed having a private car, having a family car, but it was because these were cities that were built in that way, had been built up for centuries from the Middle Ages, that you could go on a journey of some way, more or less, what was needed, whether at a store or at a school going on foot, and at worst they could find a bus or a train. However, circumstances in Iceland are very different. There is no room for improvement in transport here in vast cities. Amazing but true, Mr. President, I'm running out of time, and I'm not finished with the introduction to public transportation, just like that, I'm gonna have to pray to the highest level. President to put me back on the rosary. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u99	President. Excuse me. I didn't expect anyone to answer. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. Were you done with your answers? I'm obviously not paying close attention. I apologize for that. I'm going back to where it was gone. In short, what I discussed in the first talk was a law on transport, a law that is applied to it, the setting of priorities that are funded by the government and ways that the Ministers can go beyond the framework, as the highest priority. The transport and rural minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson suggests now, the box covering the main goals, such as security, efficiency, practicalness, and other goals. There are ways to get past that frame by making it part of a private project or by cooperating with a private agency for projects and letting the public pay - this is small from the previous speech and answers. According to Icelandic car owners'partner, such projects cost 33% more than if the state did them, the state is more natural than private property when it comes to capitalization, and then there is a natural higher profit for private workers. Icelandic car owners' partner will calculate the cost to be 33% higher. He just lays down on those who need to use the road. This is not much of a paying option in itself as a minister. Yes, he gets these projects started in his own district, which he might have received only a few, but it will be far more expensive for those who need to use the road than it would be if the framework on transport procedures were to be applied for priorities. I've reached the 5th floor. The 2008 bill, I'll continue with that, with President's permission: ▪ A report on the implementation of a transport programme. The secretary shall submit a yearly report on the implementation of the next year's transport programme. I'll mention it in particular if something changed when the 2008 law was changed. If I don't mention it, there are very similar things there or the same. There is one thing changed from 2002, the criteria were issued at the end of the spring council, i.e. that the minister should submit the report annually before the end of the spring council. It's the only change there. Then there's 6. The law, on the implementation of the transport programme and the five-year transport process programme, by permission of the President: Its five - year strategy will go into effect when the General has approved it as a concierge. This is what we're discussing here, whether the transport programme and the five - year strategy should take effect. As I mentioned in my first talk, I am not a member of the committee. As a result, I have not put the matter first. I am now looking at the challenges of transport and planning in order to be more able to take part in this discussion that has been very much developed. There's a lot at stake. Pirata's party has every year arranged for Gallup to make a poll on the priorities of government funds. The first poll was about government expenses, how people wanted to establish their priorities, e.g. to education and health care. Health has always been at the top since the 2014 survey, the longest. Education has been high, housing has also been high. During the last year of that period, transportation has become so much more important to the people of the land. Of course, this is no surprise. Those using the land's roads are very conscious of how badly they are gone and how late they are put into action. One way to justify a passage other than some taxation to pay for community infrastructure, whether it is in transportation or in the health system or anything, for any government service, and to transfer it to private hands, is to subsidize the infrastructure, starve it until public service has become so poor that people are willing to accept personalization, accept private business in that sector. In health matters, this can be dangerous to the extent that it is motivated. - I'm gonna put it this way: Private business is a great business plan to create and hold customers. That's the point. The father of today's management, Peter Drucker, brings this up as the very purpose of personal conflicts. If you want more of something, and if you want more clients, it can be good to use business plans. However, this needs to be taken into account by health care, since we want fewer patients there. We want the money to eventually return because patients will be fewer. The same is true of a prison operation. Fortunately, we are not in that direction in Iceland. That conversation hasn't even happened, I think, in Iceland, but that's the way it is in the United States. There is a tendency for big stakeholders to promote heavier punishment, and as a result, there will be more customers. Who are the clients? Yes, the prisoners. That's a terrible arrangement, naturally. But when it comes to roads, we want more roads, so in itself it is not a reason to say no on our own. The reason, when it comes to personal construction, is that the people in general do not want to go for a road. There's something that I think most citizens of the country will be at peace with, so there's an example of going that way. This is not to say that under no circumstances it is possible to go that way. And why am I talking about this? Yes, a minister has a second bill to replace this transport program with specific projects. Everything's prepared for cash, but then he says: If I take these jobs out, we can get them started right away. But you have to pay. Roads have been subsidized and built in general; bridge construction, tunneles, etc. The justice is there, and now this is yours. This process has been taken out of a transport program, three of those who could be started in a transport program, and it has been taken out of parentheses. If this is how a policy plan is adopted, these are out for another three years. Therein lies an increased pressure on people to accept extra payment for road work. Who can make any money out of it? Yes, it is. Those who are holding onto this project. Icelandic car owners have said that it is 33% more expensive to have private people do this than the public. Public growth is much better and does not have that requirement. Private investors get a nice investment option there. The Minister ofpassing finishes his case and has the ability to strike cones there: look, I've managed to get this thing through. But it will be at the expense of those who eventually have to use the roads. I'm not sure that people will be particularly happy to have to pay for the roads. Perhaps a minister is betting that people will look to it otherwise if it hadn't been possible. But we can fund the infrastructure, the building of roads, the construction of bridges, the means of transportation. The money from gasoline is always going down because cars use less and they are electric, but you can just read the mileage and make people pay for what they drive. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It would be the simplest, most efficient, and fairest.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u100	A respectable president. When I am able to talk about transportation, I will take advantage of it. In my first session at the High Council, I focused on other matters. This will include a four - year short - term schedule and a longer schedule, up to 15 years of age, up to 2034. On my travels around the city, I see that things have been accomplished in recent years, e.g. that the Rhines Way is being doubled from Hafnarfjördur to Cheflavík, the rest of the road. In fact, more would have to be done, or the end of the south section. Similarly, there are transport reforms in Elfus, between Whos and Selephos, and twice as far as the western coast of Kjalarnesi is concerned. It's all for the better. In recent years and decades, I believe that people have greatly underestimated the life savings that come from transportation. Unfortunately, I often recall a story about elections in 1948 when Harry S. Truman's vice president came to town, who had fought for a road rat from a highway to the town. The vice president asked the farmer to vote this time and probably for the last one. The farmer said no. Why? asked the vice president. The farmer replied: Yes, because you haven't done anything for me recently. At times, road costs have been made, but unfortunately, not in urban areas but in smaller areas. Thus, the more densely populated areas in southwestern countries have left behind. It seems to me that it's only being cleaned up, and it's fine. I'm going to talk a little bit about something I don't seem to have much discussion about in the guys underneath. It's the Keflavour Airport. It may not be too long to expand the situation at the Cheflavour Airport. Then I'm not just talking about the airport, I'm talking about runways. At some point, based on the specific application, you will need to double the runway, i.e. ... to havea parallelways, except for the planes that take care of transport to and from Iceland, they'll grow much more. I hope that a review of these programmes will take into account that one day a parallel path must be assured, that there will be a need to start thinking, perhaps not within a period of less than ten years, that the Keflavour Airport organization will be in such a way that it cannot be excluded that there can be parallelways before departure and landing, as it is at many larger airports. But they are certainly far beyond the number of passengers now known as Keflavík Airports. Similarly, the maintenance and development of airport workers in Cheflavík has to be properly maintained. There may be a problem, i.e. holding of the Cheflavour airport, which is now in NATO's list of workers. Because the battlefield is on NATO's list, nothing may be to be done because it is a military fortress, even though it is used primarily for civil purposes. This need to be considered. Regarding a different flight to and from the country, about other airports, I often feel optimistic about the possibility of starting a wide, regular flight from other airports to Iceland. I think it is unnecessaryly optimistic, and if you want to reach a high level of cost, it is also a question, is it not all better, compared to the other, to buy a pilot's service to fly directly from Chefavík to these places? That section needs to be weighed. There has been an attempt to launch a planned flight from Keflavík to Akureyri in connection with the arrival and departure of Cheflavík, which has not been economicly practical so far. I believe this is in sight, even though not too much discussion is being made in the heads below. Regarding possible cooperation projects on roads, we stand and fall by getting financial support. This kind of funding needs to be shown on the basis of income. Here are some six projects, and I'm just hoping that people would have thought it through. At the same time, there must be some consistent and good system to achieve energy exchange by paying. Whether this is paid directly or paid in a fuel charge, the consumer pays in some way. I'm going to make these thoughts work and finish my case, but I'm going to stress that transportation is a biosaturation for everyone and has been seriously underestimated over the years. I've finished my case, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u101	V.E.G. President. I apologize for being a little late for the game, but we're talking about transport plans, from five to fifteen years of age. What I may find most interesting about these plans is what is not in them. In that way, I want to talk about the Sunway. The path to destruction is a means of betrayal and indiscriminateness. In my time, more than 22 years ago, if I didn't ski, Kjalnes were lured to join the city of Reykjavík against a promise, Mr. President, that the waterway would be taken into consideration in a short time and transportation to and from the city, and in particular for the Kjalnesians and others living in the upper city of Reykjavík would be improved. In short, all their plans have been betrayed, as everyone knows. Not only that, but the mayor's office in Reykjavík has been working secretly and clearly over the past few years to compromise the possibility that the Sunway will become a reality. On one hand, by selling sheep labor grounds where the waterway would otherwise have taken land, I'm talking about on this side of the flea side. However, the road around the river factory in Gufunesi is now being squeezed out of the water because of a building that is remarkable enough to be located in a so - called carless neighborhood up above the river factory. It is difficult to see how people in the world should get to and from that place without having a car, but perhaps this universal solution will come and save it as much as anything else that is supposed to be saved here. But there is something else that concerns you. First, as the president knows, for people living in Western lands, for people on Acdeposin, Citynes, and West, they would remember very much if there were to be a gapway and there would be no need to go through Mosfellstown and Altansbrek, with the routines of every day. Every day, Mr. President. And that's the way it is, and this knows the President, that those who pick up e.g. A job to the Cheflavour Airport from here in Reykjavík is about As long as they're going to work at work and those who work here in the Qunos, who live in Grafarvogi. It's really annoying, but that's the way it is. This would, for example. To the Grafarvogians and those who live above them, there is much correction. But it seems quite clear that the mayor's greater part, led by the United States, intends to destroy that future solution by any means available. Road damage is not only transport, it is also a security factor. And now let's put ourselves in that track that the capital area, e.g. by earthquakes or volcanic eruptions. This will not be done with the only way that is now out of the capital. Not just that, Mr. President, but the mayor's department will put a stone on the street of the poorest living in the area. Sellings are in a position where every route is blocked and should be blocked even more with walking lights. The speed has been reduced. It's been changed, and it's been really tight. In other words, most of the ways from Seltjanarnes to Reykjavík are now that one has to plan twice as long as it took to get that way. The current government sector is trying to destroy as many transport opportunities as possible to, in time, throw in what is called a city line. But no one seems to know what it is. I guess I'll also talk about the city line in this case that concerns common khf. company. I expect some day tomorrow or later, the matter will come on, and I will naturally talk about the city line in that case as well. Mr. President, it's so dreadful that this is happening right now. Now I'm getting the attention. That's why a president came in here to find a man who wouldn't have made it into the front room in Costco, not in a jacket and not shoes. He wouldn't have been able to get into the gym at Costco. He wouldn't have had a cart. But he gets into the General Assembly Hall. This is embarrassing, Mr. President, but enough. Only this one point, that the capital area can be cleared in case of a natural disaster, is no small detail. Therefore, it is noteworthy that this was the way that the project was basically sold to someone, since it is not in here. They say this is going to be done on a private basis and they'll charge for it. It has been concluded that today's private transport work is usually about 33% more expensive than any work done by the government itself. That's a natural concern. It is also in itself incomprehensible for any project promised 22 years ago, and has been betrayed to this day, torn out of a transport program and referred to the future, Mr. President. Of course, urgent cases that have been delayed for far too long are being handled, such as the two -fold Sleazynes Way from Washingun and through Hafnarfjordur. Of course, it is important, and these are dangerous roads. But doing it this way right now is just beyond belief. Actually, there's another thing I'm kind of going to have to plug in here. Several times in the past few years, I've suggested a solution to the eastern and west of Reykjavík, or north and south, depending on which direction they use in this context, i.e. From howl, and from Bedinholth, and from the river down, and from the other side. It can be done in a simple way, Mr. President. It is possible to do so by making the Grand Canyon Road a single - road road street from Nútland Avenue as a bison of the year. This would mean, Mr. President, that on that route there would be four and up to six or eight lanes. A bus could easily take one lane, Mr. President. Similarly, the Seaway would be a one - road street to the west from Altansbrek and at least to the Snorra Way, even to the Snockway, or just to the Wallway. That would cost very little money. Some traffic signs would have to be turned around or even cut off. Well, let's see, one of the reasons I'm referring to the Ring Road of Nún, is that Iceland's biggest failures are now being built at the Watermies, i.e. New Land Hospital. There's no change in the Circle Course around here. In fact, it is tight by putting down one of the largest apartment buildings that have been built in Reykjavík for a long time. It is called 102, and is built on the ruins of the emergency path so called because the government's will is to destroy an airport as well and I will come to that, both in second speeches and also in the speech of the Ohf.- Nothing will be added to the ringway around the hospital and because it is easy to be generous on other people's money, the mayor has apparently got the government into his team to build a huge box. It was originally meant to be for traffic. The last suggestion I heard was that it would be so good to put a Grand Way in a box because it could be built on top and built. It doesn't matter where you go, you talk with your split tongue, as the Indians said in the old days. It's not a good thing, Mr. President, to do business with parties that are acting like the city of Reykjavík since 2013, anyway, when treaties were made with the state. Humans have simply not lived up to anything. It makes it so difficult to take note of a transport plan when the necessary major projects are cast far into the future and when people do their work in destroying opportunities for transport that would be a blessing to their citizens. This sucks so much that you can hardly really talk about it. Still, this is the situation. We have to live with it while this mayor's section is being saved over and over again. He's been down three times. But there are always some bitter-looking people who are willing to play the crutch for the partnership and continue to beat this dead horse, which, unfortunately, is passing away from Iceland's capital. That's why I say that maybe now is the most important time to find out what people are going to do with the Road of Sun. There's need to know. And it is vital to know what is being done in Grafarvogur to hinder the Dizziness Way in that end too. They've closed the main part of the Dwamps and Vogatowns inside it sold the area to financiers who pull up houses there. You just haven't seen such dense settlement in a while, I think. It reminds us of Italy, where humans can hang washing watches between blockers. Perhaps it will be, and then the laundry can be drawn between them, as is done there. Well, that may be, at least I believe that wind is good. The washing should dry well. But it's no fun, Mr. President. This is of serious concern, and in itself the person standing here does not feel that there is any way to make a deal with the city of Reykjavík while it is going on as it has for some time, and it is obviously going to continue. It's simply not possible. Sadly, these methods are burned to the point that they will not bring such areas much happiness or great progress. I must also, Mr. President, mention the area of Reykjavík, although it may be in the middle of a discussion later in this discussion and in the discussion of the Ohf. The fact is, there have been so many problems in the city of Reykjavík as an airport service. Reykjavík's airport is virtually no longer the required reserve because safety issues on the field, brake measurements, criteria, security features, are not as necessary as they need to be under such circumstances. I remember that in winter, there was a certain senator. late for a hearing from Akureyri. I asked him if it was so difficult to leave Akureyri. Akureyri was fine. It was waiting for the busiest airport in the capital to land on Monday in the fall. It's not a choice. It's completely mateless. Then they allow themselves to set aside money to explore an airport that is supposed to be built in a 20 - mile line from another international airport and on an ectoplasmic lava in a water - protection area. Even if I was a writer, I couldn't spell such an event. I wouldn't have an idea, but they're gonna do it and they're just pretty proud. That's very strange, Mr. President. These are matters that we obviously need to discuss very well. Now I've been outside the city's limits, except just south of Whalehál, on this consideration, so this is what concerns the 230,000 people in this area. It's very serious how this has gotten late. In fact, we can see that the dangerous process between the Bolagas and Selephos, the natural expression of which has become like that of the city of Reykjavík for many. The mayor of Reykjavík has made it easier for people to get away from Reykjavík and at less expensive shelters in neighboring communities, such as Hopostas, People's Harbor, and Selphoss. Not to mention that the kind of transportation they are in the small business of this city is just a little tricky. Even government agencies go out here because they're not well here. A marine research agency has arrived at Hafnarfjörður, and I congratulate the Héturists on this. Of course, the facility in the beautiful setting up of that building is well established. But it seems that humans don't care. And the mayor of Reykjavík and his court is just quite proud to be slaughtering 600 people in the workplace, the airport in the Hydromosis, and it's just working on it all the years. It is evident, Mr. President, that when companies and organizations leave the city, they will be a sleeping city. There won't be any production here, and I guess you'll have to live on each other. They can sell one another - if someone gets down on the road because no one who is elderly or who has difficulty walking - or sells each other a bottle in another house, which is a good business, but it's not that the capital of Iceland should be built up on such activities. This is where we need to have a verdant structure. We need to have a job opportunity, but all of this will be ruined by the way transportation is being done in the city. Mr. President. I was just talking about the capital city and the vicinity of it, and I've only come further, so I have to pray to the highest level. Mr President to put me on the rosary so that I can speak again where I have now disappeared.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u102	President. The last time we stood here not long ago, I was just beginning to discuss the role of a public transportation program. I briefly described my experience with public transportation and reiterated the importance of organization's maintenance of public transportation. But I was not quite finished with that story, since I had not yet reached the point. But the point is this: I and countless more Icelanders who have experienced living in old cities abroad have lived there without having to have a family car. In this situation in cities that have been built up since the Middle Ages, it is easy to go on foot with all your activity, and you have to get somewhere further off the bus or train than the trains and city lines and buses, and any names you want to give public transportation in the cities, to be effective. They rise because of the building of cities. Then come into things like weather, etc. But the point is that these cities have been built up in this way from the time of horse chariots and such trolleys that it is relatively easy to escape from one dense, crowded place to another, all their activity. However, Reykjavík has been built up in a way far different from the medieval cities of Europe and has much more in common with the cities built in America. Then there's no point, a respectable president, just to imagine that Reykjavík is Amsterdam and to attack out of that imagination on a transport project. I've believed that one of the best things that could happen to organizational matters in Reykjavík, especially in transport, would be taking place for city and town councilmen, sightseeings, foreign cities. I think such trips, as many as they have been, have caused quite a loss. They go there together, whether city representatives in Reykjavík or representatives of the local community in the capital area, from the Union in the capital area, and look at projects and transportation in Amsterdam or Antwerp or Berlin or Stockholm, a god knows where. It's been a lot of trips. And then I'm sure there's some sort of corneal presentation going over it with these urbanists, no matter how important these transport systems are in the cities that humans are in each time. However, these cities are quite different in nature, from the city of Reykjavík. Here we need solutions to take into account the circumstances presented here. Of course, these solutions should include public transportation, but they must not be allowed to place enormous burdens on the inhabitants just to make things worse. Here I come to what may be the point of the public transportation discussion and what is suggested in this transport plan: What is suggested here will make things worse. What do I mean by that? Yes, it doesn't even have to take my word that many of them have been unsatisfactory, city line spokesmen, explaining that one of the advantages of this approach is that it narrows down the road, traffic of the family cars, the most advanced mode of transportation here in the capital area, and in Iceland. In this way, it is quite possible that the personal and family vehicles will be confined to the vehicle, thus forcing people to make use of public transportation. Mr. President. This is very difficult when time runs out every five minutes, and I'm just getting started in the public transport section. [[The president calls.]] I'm waiting for the highest. President, signing up again to the speaker's file.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u103	Mr. President. We will discuss the next five - year transport program, 2020,2024, and 15 - year - old, 2020 -2234. Of course, there are a lot of material here and a lot of stuff to cover. At each assembly, transport plans are equally difficult, requiring detailed discussions and analysis. We live in a small nation in a large country, and there are a number of urgent and urgent transport projects that have been waiting, many of which have spent too long, including too long. Because of the economic collapse of the day, but it is also possible to say because of neglect. These projects are expensive and expensive, so it is important that our priorities and goals are clear. It is also vital that reasonable doses of common common common sense, reason, and not charge are provided if there is a solution. If we look at the scene in a material way, Mr. President, and look in particular to the city in Reykjavík and the capital area, which I believe, of course, is a matter of particular interest to me, although, of course, the whole country is all underneath, the transport program appears at least. other threads in the plans for the official part of the network that are planned to develop transport infrastructure in the capital area. I will take a closer look at this companion in my speech. First, Mr. President, I would like to mention that we are in a somewhat peculiar position in the political way. We have groups of national bison who are represented at the General Assembly, which are in memory and present in this discussion as minority but are active and powerful to form in the city of Reykjavík. If we take up the United States then it has been a leading category in urban affairs for a long time, and the mayor of those ranks is now in his second term. Perhaps it could be viewed as longer under certain merits, a person who has had a profound effect during the second term. Pirates are exactly the same, they appear at the high Council as a minority, but this is, I'll say, Mr. President, a massive power party when it comes to the affairs of the city. They are taking the lead in the largest case involved in every rural society that is the organizational issue. It is a representative of the Book of Martyrs who presides in the prehumanity of Reykjavík in the city of Reykjavík. It is quite clear that there are high - level pyramids in which there may not be too much difference between colleagues'priorities. In fact, there are four groups that make up the greater part of Reykjavík. Of course, it is very special to see that these are groups known for having been placed on the left side of the political spectrum, so no one speaks for a convention and no one complains about it. These are the successors of the Old German Party, the Controversy, and the Common Coalition and the Socialist Party, the natural left green. Then there are those Pirats who cooperate a little bit of a princely class, with a strong emphasis on a constitution and a hair-screature in its interpretation and the emphasis on personal protection and other such factors. It is highly recommended that these matters be promoted. But when it comes down to it, and it challenges this group of Pirats, they're just like any other left category, as it is clearly seen from our work in Reykjavík. What may be a little strange about this is that after the more part of the last term fell in the election, and voters in Reykjavík expressed their vote that they did not want this part to go on, paradise would appear. This class, as known by humans, is largely divided from the independent group of European countries and may, on the national scale, have been one of its main issues and perhaps not too many other issues. But in this cooperation in the city of Reykjavík, I'd like to say, Mr. President, like an Indian left squad. It even appeared. in strangely eccentric and peculiar emphasis on serious matters, such as the formation of organizational matters. One small thing is that this more portion of the game suggests that some chapters of the Eye Road are downhilled than others. It's amazing. It's amazing. It can also be seen, and of course, it does not have to be attributed to these agencies that have been involved in the greater part of the country that seem to be completely unconvinced of the financial community, the capital. That's why, Mr. President, it's so peculiar because I don't have to mention the problem and all of it, that in the case of the living, the transport program that appeared to us in the capital area other threads, such as I trace earlier, as a plan for this public community, it is the Nationalist Party that seems to be financing the political emphasis and election issues of the left part of Reykjavík and perhaps not least the leading party in the city. It's very peculiar. We look up that in the bill available here on the official transport construction community, the emphasis is that there are pretty much the same amount of money that is expected to be given for root roads in the capital area and on the other hand to the so - called city line. The footways have been on the edge for years and have been neglected, and I don't think anyone would argue because it is absolutely necessary and must take it seriously. But then the city line receives such a weight - bearing point that it is merely identified with the footways. It's like, if I may say so, that I'm in favor of public transportation and have very good experience with them. It's not long since I used bus often. There's a path of 57 that drives all routes at least north of Akureyri. There are many places that you can get along that way in a very practical and effective way by taking a bus. I know it very well from my own experience. I also have very good experience in public transportation in foreign cities. If I may allow myself, Mr. President, to mention a few, I would like to mention London, Stockholm, Washington DC, as it is called in the local language, where I used public transportation for study or service. Then we know the trains and everything in these countries. It's all very good to say. But the questions that are involved here are priorities and general budgets for costs, capital ships, cost-of-charging differences, interest, and future use. So I mention it to one side, it seems to be 4%, which, for a few years ago, appeared to be using the bus here, has not changed. Then there is something about the city line that has not been a well defined term. What's been talking about hasn't been exactly the way it is. On the other hand, I allow myself to quote. A senator who knows this matter very well and has discussed it at the General Assembly, Brondi Haraldsdóttir. She has worked in a rural government in her home in Mousfellstown and is familiar with it. In a memorable way, she said, "I'm going to give her a quote. " I took it down: The city line is a red carpet for bus in the capital area. It gave me a much clearer picture than ever before of what this city line represents. We see evidences of this, for example, on the Grand Way, where arrangements have been made to prepare a bus ride. There's nothing but good to say. It seems to have worked out fine. There is a special label on the back of the bus that reminds us that when the bus is not on its own, the following traffic should be replaced when it is starting a stop stop. So it's all good about public transportation. The question, however, is this: Is it really so that in the present situation, after so much time has passed since good - looking social events have been made, the balance should be balanced, in relation to this public community, they are carried out, so necessary and urgent to have an important safety factor, and, on the other hand, this city line? Mr President, let me say, what confidence can a man really have in the plans of the city line? Then I'm especially thinking about the financial factors. I'm talking about planning, implementation, business and financing and cost-and-traveling and valuation of them. In the bill, which is actually being put aside by a transport program and is almost as part of it, on this public community, it is assumed to put 49.6 billion people in the city line at 52.2, I think, in the founding pathways. Based on the experience gained by a financial administration to form at the scene of the city council, you ask: 50 billion? What is the limit? For example, are we talking about 75 billion or 150 billion, referring to more recent examples, where the cost went totally out of control? Since then, Mr. President, in the discussion, it has been stated that the city line, in case of any time, has not been fully developed, has no means of operating for that means of transportation. Thus, there are many questions still to be asked, and especially how the Independence Party is confident to suggest to the General that this emphasis is evident in the transport of the capital area that the founding roads and city lines are placed at an equal rate when it comes to coins. These are pretty much the same numbers on either side of 50 billion. Then, for all of this, the most valuable land in the capital area is to be placed as the State, i.e. Votnland, the grand estate it is. The country is about 80 acres [30 ha] as I am next to it. It is assumed in the bill, which is here on the side of the transport programme and almost as part of it, that this public partner should take over this country, develop it, and as best understood, attack some kind of real estate thing or land with this country. It's very peculiar, as we've been traced here. Mr. President. There has yet to be no mention of a very important step of action. For the majority of the city's city council, it seems to have been turned aside in the sense of setting it down lower and, in fact, much lower, in priority terms than the city line. However, this is a project that has been completed at least In the last decade and a half, if not much longer. So oddly, on the part of the mayor's section has been made decisions and is involved in operations inside the Voga area that make this project more difficult and more expensive. That is to confirm the known message that came at least The media made it clear that the road manager sent to the city's government, which described this decision at the scene of the city's city was actually bound to the point where the waterway might have been 10 billion more expensive than if those decisions had not been taken. I remind you, Mr. President, when Kilines was united in Reykjavík at his time, it was a reason for the inhabitants of Kjalarnesi that the promise of a Diving Way would be fulfilled that we would be saved. Of course, it is a very serious matter to the inhabitants of Kjalarnes how the matter has been handled. The waterway has fallen to strengthen the way up to Kjalarnes and west, an important aspect of security here in the capital area. I haven't been able to discuss except a few of the points I was going to mention, Mr. President, so I'd like to allow myself to finish my case by asking the president to re-establish me to a rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u104	Mr. President. I missed the beginning of the talk next to you. A senator but came into the middle of it. To tell you the truth, I thought I was on the wrong side, that the program was going faster than I expected. A senator would be talking about a third part of the program, a warrant to establish an official transport building organization in the capital area. But it isn't. We're discussing a transport plan, and I have to say, President, that I completely disagree. A senator when it comes to his opinions on the city line, I think it's a very good project, and not just because of public transport, but because it's also an environment. What I wanted to ask you. A senator is the situation in the road system, in the woods, which in many parts of the country is very bad, and I can speak for my own district, the South, which has been trafficked by tourists. In recent years, there has been a marked increase, and money lacks to build up roads, as well as maintenance. I want to ask you why. A senator, because he has knowledge of economic issues, whether it would have been wise in 2013, 2014, and 2015, in the history of the Government of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunuga, to take on extensive initiatives and investments in the interior while the economy was still lax. Is that not why we are in such a bad state today that it was not done in the time of that government?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u105	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a new Oddný Harðardóttir for the counter-sponsored. Hv. A senator explained that she had come into my speech in the middle of my speech, which may explain why she did not understand the structure of my speech and how I was involved in individual affairs. I explained at the outset, in fact, on one or two occasions, that when we're talking about the transport process, it is shown in a certainty about the people of the city and the people of the capital area over the plans for this public community. It discusses footways, city lines, light control, etc. No, that speech wasn't wrong. It was about a transport program in the sense that the process of transportation was associated with the public community that is scheduled to establish just as is natural when discussing this matter correctly. Hv. A senator said he didn't agree with me on a city line. She did not specify what point it was about the city line that she disagreed with me. Of course, she's the one who's asking me here instead of me, but I was going to let myself say that I was interested in knowing what point she disagrees with me about. I described myself as a follower of public transportation, said that I understood them, described my experience in public transportation, from my young age to my respectable age. However, I explained that I did not realize this priorities that the more part of the mayor had set up by except for the city line in the Sunway and expressed surprise as to why the Independence Party was financing it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u106	Mr. President. Now I wish I could say what. Senator: Thank you for the answer. But I can't because there wasn't an answer to my question, but a response to my declaration. So I have to reiterate the question, which was where I was referring to knowledge. A senator on economic matters. Right away. A senator looks at the road system and sees it in very many places, in all too many places, just trying to break away from us, and it hasn't happened in a few months, but in a long time, he doesn't agree with me that the government, where his party was holding over the administrations in 2013◯2016, should have made investment campaigns and used the laxness that was in the economy at the time when we were going up for an advantage, using the financial status and economic situation to take on investments and infrastructures. Wasn't that the right time? Then I'd like to ask, because I've got some time left, which is it? A senator does not agree with me that there is not enough emphasis on the environment in the transport programme, either five years of age or longer. The energy exchange in transport is very low and the tasks that should contribute to the energy exchange and quickly put them back on the ground. Wouldn't have to, by the way. A senator, an increasing focus on the environment in a transport program?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u107	Mr. President. Hv. A senator is not a stranger to economic affairs himself and let me mention that she is the first woman to serve as minister of finance in Iceland. We know of well - known economic theories that may not have been the least of them since the global crisis, and later, Lord John Maynard Keynes presented them in his brilliant work of 1936. It is naturally proclaimed that it is a good time to attack an investment and increase in the cost of the State when men are downturned. But, hey. One senator asked if it was not a reason to use the mood during the period she mentioned. Yes, it is possible to back up good work at all times. It can be done. I'm not in any special position to determine if this year's acquiesc is the time they missed the bus. As I mentioned in my talk, we are talking about the cause that the platforms have not received enough weight. There are many of them, and I even traced them. To the collapse that was naturally uncontrolled and all. Hv. A senator mentioned the environment to me, and I just want to say in general that I am very close to the fact that men are very good at them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Now, naturally, there's a lot of energy switching to electricity, and then we've got a natural record of all that we can use. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u108	Mr. President. As a group, we will discuss two major issues that concern the entire nation and therefore deserve a good discussion. One of them is a proposal for a resolution of transport plans for the year 2020, 2020, for which there are quite many years, into the future, and the other is a five - year transport program that will take care of what is getting us closer to each other in time. I think it may be safe to say that in the coming years, our transport has rarely or never been more urgent. We know that in many ways the infrastructure has been missing for quite a long time. I don't think it's excessive that in the coming years and even decades, we're going to have to make major investments, whether we're talking about roads, ports, airport projects or public transportation projects. It is enough to accept in all those areas. Even today, in our society at present, we do not need this just because we have to fix the infrastructure that we have neglected for a long time. Rather, we need to take into account the circumstances in our economic affairs that make it a ideal opportunity, for various reasons, to build up the necessary structure. It is not likely, at least Now for the next year, that we're going to have a lot of unemployment. A number of types of transport projects can, first, lead to a reduction in such unemployment. It may also result in a greater benefit in many ways than that of getting contractors to do the work, since it may be more likely that they will be affected, so to speak, so to speak. Then, at least At present, it is clear that the cost of budgeting is at a historic minimum in this country and that we Icelanders rarely have or never lived at a lower interest level, so that they attack and even charge the necessary loans at this time is unusual. This may be so common in terms of economic conditions that make it wise and, in fact, the need to meet that challenge. It's not just to think that, hopefully, the tourism will take over and here the tourists will come back on an increasing scale, and although the person standing here does not want to announce or promise that the number of them will be at least one. Just in the next few moments, it is clear that the infrastructures used by tourists are inexplicable, and in many places they have to be brilled, and everyone knows that. This, of course, is about the availability of popular tourist locations and highways. However, there are also other reasons why it is important and urgent to be able to take hold of the investment. I'd like to mention in particular the context that now changes in our thinking, I think, about transportation, and most important of all, that is now very rapid technological development and will probably be even faster in the future. Most of us are facing this, and statistics show that we are on the increase in transporting our cars to using energy other than fossil fuels, and that, of course, is good for many reasons. First, fossil fuels are pollution, and we want to reduce it. Second, if we succeed, we will be able to use almost entirely domestic energy to keep driving cars on the roads of the country and other transportation tools, whether by electricity or assessments or possibly by other means. Therefore, it is very important that we speed up, e.g. as much as possible make it possible for electric car owners to travel through the country. In recent times, we have seen that despite talking about preparing well and being ready to accept the change, there is no qualification of highways, such as even outside the highways, driving drivers'facilities are inexhaustible. Icelanders who will travel to great extent here in the country for some summer have been strongly encouraged to do so and will go to the country's highways, but electric car owners have been warned that they will likely have delay in getting electricity on their cars because of the low loads and the low outputs. It is quite absurd to think that people are trying to reduce pollution and use modern technology, but our infrastructure is not ready to accept it. There is a danger that people may be willing to adopt a relapse if they cause them to get into trouble rather than others to get through the country and our road system. This needs to be very strong in mind and may not be enough to do in any of the programs we have here because the most evidence we are about now is that we Iceland are quite newmen. When we finally take over and start using new technology, we are often quick. The use of this technology in cars is an outstanding expression of growth. Road transport is also important because it really matters how the combination of traffic is, what kind of vehicle is on the road, and how it handles the road system so that it can simply withstand all that traffic, and we know that our road system makes it very limited, so we have to make it right here. I'd just like to touch something else in this context. It's that we are now, in part through these programs, but also because it's an acute economic necessity to be with a lot of big projects that can include building big, intense transport skills, making big changes in public transport and the like, and this is all very big projects -- therefore, much to consider that things are well worked out, that things are somewhat well-deserved, and that we have made good plans and try to make ourselves the best equipped for them to do well and not just to the extent that we're looking at, to the extent that it is a project that is most important for the costs of time management and planning. It's been wanting to burn that we've had a little bit of trouble with this, that it's gonna work out. I want to add a third factor to all of this, what's done is to increase the efficiency and efficiency of society. They serve the work being done to accomplish the purpose required? For a player, it can be very easy to say: Wouldn't it be a good idea to put a bridge here and a tunnel there or a road rat here? Yet, we may not have thought about whether it is the wisest thing to do in that place. Other possibilities may be possible. You also need to wonder, " What is the social impact of this? ' I don't mean to say it's like that, but sometimes it was at least the joke said in my youth, and is probably hardly funny, that when finally there was a rough road to some village or laid needed bridge then it was the next thing that happened that everyone crossed the bridge and never came back. I know this may not be quite true, but it says that we need to know why we're doing things. I'm not saying that there's a lot of activity here, and I think that is usually the kind of projects we're going through in this regard. But they are not always. And I only record it here because two years ago, early in 2018, the Allied Council adopted the votes of all members of Congress - at least two years ago. which was then in the hall, I think they were somewhere close to 50, but it may not be all that matters - a little connoisseur that I started. I'd like to read the suggestion here because it's short and very clear about what I'm talking about, with the president's permission: ▪ The General concluded to hide financial and economic secretarys to implement policy development with the aim of ensuring the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of public investments from the stage of development and the planned life span. The secretary of a five - man team to establish formal government cooperation, employment, and educational community on the development of frame plans for three years in order to build up knowledge and skills and to improve research on the quality, efficiency, and effectiveness of public investments. No later than November 1, 2018, the editors present their suggestions to the Council. I'm just feeling a little disappointed. The secretary of finance has not yet submitted this suggestion. I've known more than once what's going on with her, if they're not going to try to implement this because it's a frame that's supposed to be our early think, plan early, make plans for profit analysis, community analysis, etc. A guard will then be included in the project to check, both from the beginning and until the project is completed, whether we are still on the right track, and whether improvements must be done, etc. I think it's one of the things that would have been very good to be perfect, and now I'm not saying, as I said before, that everything is in pieces, I don't want to say at all because it's certainly not. But we can do much better. We can know much more about what we're doing, what we're doing, and we can make sure that we're working well so that everyone will finally be happy as at least the project was carried out, it was carried out as it was to be done and will produce the results to be accomplished, for there is always a purpose to attack on projects and investments, as well as, perhaps, on major monuments, which are part of our transport in a wide range of ways. It is very often expensive and vast, affecting the environment and lives of the citizens, and thus it is so urgent that there is a successful outcome. As I said earlier, I've had a little disappointment about how little in itself has been done with all of this. You see, I think it's so important that we have a strong, good view, and, of course, a vision is here in these panels, and some of that vision will now be a little gratifying. I'm here to quote a transport program in the 2020/2034. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Iceland will be the front row of solid and safe structures, powerful rural societies, valuables, and progressive services. A technical link between the country and Iceland in balance with the environment. The main objective of transport and rural programmes is: ▪ The services of transport and communication systems meet the needs of society. ▪ Sustainable settlements and rural communities will be all over the country. The spending of individual case categories and time, as well as individual projects to be implemented during the 2020/2020/2034 schedule, is based on the above main objectives, as well as the focus of the Minister and the government. Now, of course, this may be true of all of us, but its contents may be somewhat drudgery. Of course, we all want Iceland to be the front row. What, though, does this vision have to do with what? What does it involve? Does that include two, three airports per quarter? [[The president calls.]] Does that involve our increasing use of tunnels? Is that because we're about to build railroads? [[The president calls.]] What does that involve? There's something I feel like is missing. [[The president calls.]] But I can't go any further this time, so I'll stop here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u109	Mr. President. In this talk on the transport program, I would like to arrive only on the city line project that we have considered, and on the part of the State of the stock to be done where the funds of the state are coming to survive the current of about 75% of the cost, 105 billion of 120. There are enormous amounts of money and much that really matter when it comes to knowing exactly what they will get out of the project and what the cost in the future is. It is suggested that the government fund contributes to the country of Legion, which would then be sold and replaced in this process. One thing has not been discussed here, which I feel is necessary to enter, and this is the cost of transporting the current state activity of thewelders, housing, and laboratorys from the region and finding a new location. Of course, that is costly. The new cost of construction is considerable, and the cost of getting new property elsewhere is either in Reykjavíkurburg or in the neighborhood. All of this comes with costs, either needs to be bought or rented, and the cost of transportation is the same. It also takes stopping this business. The Agency's headquarters is costing money. It's something that hasn't been implemented. I think it's probably billions of dollars. I think it's safe to say that because there's a need to find a location and value that's not that low, so it's gonna cost a lot of money. I think it's a problem with this agreement that we don't discuss who's supposed to have that cost. Is a wealth of money to contribute the land with valuables and then also to feed the flow of transporting and building up its activities elsewhere? I don't think it's a fair trade or a reasonable arrangement for a state fund. There's something important to discuss. In addition, in the context of the need to discuss the need to build new hospitals. Although this is being done today, various politicians and government officials have said that land for a new hospital after some 20 years has been considered to be something new, even though the new one has not risen now. Then they've looked to the Feldnaland, and it's clearly not happening. What will replace them? There is something to discuss, as well as an property to discuss in this context. Then I wanted to come to the club as such. We're going to discuss it here in particular because it's a special bill, and we're going to have to explain the final resolution. It is something that is absolutely necessary because, for example, it can. happening, and is a source of authority that local communities, neighbors, take specific initiatives from their union, such as roads and bridges. At that time, the cost of living may exceed the 25% share of community property. They buy this share at market prices. I would have felt that this was normal, so traffic and the practicality of transportation would be considered. Then there is something else that needs to be available, and there is the extent and extent of the transport workers linked to this city line so that a realistic estimate of costs can be made. Mr. President. There are many things that are unclear about the city line, and I wanted them to be especially part of this talk. I see that my time has passed, Mr. President, and I wish to be put back on the rosary so I can complete my coverage of the city line in this transport program.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u110	V.E.G. President. I'm just gonna take over for a while. A senator concluded his case with the city line. Although I'm not going to discuss this phenomenon specifically, I have not felt that it was designed for motivation before such a major project is made. I would like to mention a bus here in the capital, especially because I now have a heading to a bus in Akureyri that doesn't cost a penny. I have sometimes wondered if offering free for a bus in one bus route could help, down to the city center at a particular time in the morning. Then you could live in the street for free from the center of the city and go to the neighborhood at a certain time the second part. I say this because it might be interesting to see if it would attract people to wagons. I know it's certainly happened earlier in the discussion, we've discussed this matter considerably, that it's about the size of the cars. I think there's quite a point. You'd like to walk out at the next stop and there'll be a bus in a few minutes, especially if the weather's not good. You might be tempted to take a family car instead. What I wanted to discuss mainly here is the transport process, both short - term and long - term. This is about the land as a whole, which means that we need to try to make sure that there is a good way to live where people choose to be. There, transportation plays a significant and important role, both the roads and, of course, the flights and transporters. It's so interesting that just the other day, it was decided to have free for the ferry that sails to the Merry Islands. But I understand there's not the big money in it. To me, it's an example of public transportation that might have been thought of as free as usual. If we think of the radius thought that is sometimes referred to in connection with the so - called Scottish route, it should not simply take place on a flight trip but imagine that it would take other transportation options. I examined some comments on this subject and came across the reference to the Eyjafjörður Development Society. The guys who write the review begin by celebrating a vision of a future on a transport program of 2020-2034 and talking about the appearance of a future policy in rural areas and public transportation on land, air and land and land, and the importance of such a country as Iceland. It also discusses the importance of the city's airport. I took note that in the earlier discussion, it might be interesting to consider how we could change our flight routes so that the middle of the city is not just around Reykjavík. At one point, I gave a talk here, where I made some distances between places. The distance between Akureyri and Eglish position is quite long, and there is really nothing against my being able to take a flight from Akureyri to Eglish positions or directly from different places to Cheflavík, now or to Ishafjörður. That it doesn't always have to be left in Reykjavík with the appropriate wait. We know that the flight between these largest settlements, all of us, though so important, is very short now. Of course, they need to build a Chefavor airport. I don't mean to disagree, but I think it somehow is a completely different thing. We need to strengthen our flight throughout the country, certainly the large airports, but also this small field called. In this case, I would especially like to discuss the security factor, which is the ability to land a medical flight where necessary. That's why the little airports are so important. In fact, flights need to be defined as public transportation. It must be done so that it is not simply a work project that will be completed but that it must be established and defined as public transportation. We should look at all of these, along with transportation, in the air, and at sea. If we go back to the review of Eyjafjörður's employment partner, this long plan is promised, if we can call it that. However, they are rather incompatible with the Action Programme, i.e. this shorter schedule of 2020-2024. The Professional Development Society points out that the vision they presented was just before, and the objective is not to be found in this brief schedule. If I interrupt the review, with the permission of a president: However, when the policy plan for transport is reviewed, the vision and goals listed in the transport program will not be funded for the next five years. We don't add words and lines and a good plan will miss. In general, the Northland can be claimed to carry a sharp object from the level at the exchange of capital between parts of the country. These are quite large words, but when I've read more reviews, I'll probably find more examples of such discrepancies, if I can talk about it that way, when I look at other parts of the country. It may well be very easy to have a beautiful vision of the future, but when you put aside how to live up to that vision, to help, it really isn't realistic. That's all I can think of if I try to visualize in some context. It also shows that the Akureyri Airport is important to the job development community. I'd like to mention the same route of Egli site and the airport on the Hornfjord. I can name the airport in a sheep's jar, if that's the case. There's a lot to do, and I have to put it in my next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u111	V.E.G. President. I've been in this conversation mainly in the country, but I just want to come to the city. I'd like to tap into a slightly new city line or the plans it contains, but according to city and mayor's publications in the capital area, they believe that city line is an economic and eco-friendly way to improve the transport capacity, quality of life for the transport system, reduced travel time, reduced accidents, and reduced structural costs. However, a closer examination reveals that it is unlikely that the city line can meet those high expectations. The project, however, is moving as we know, and it could cost a quarter of a million. K. in every home. The estimated cost of the city's total is 70 to150 billion, but for the same amount, many other and more efficient measures could be made to improve transport in the capital area. It is an amazing investment that will adversely affect the survival of all people in the area. If the money is divided in the 85,000 homes in the area, every home will suffer a total of 0.81.7 million. This does not include the cost of significant investment by lanes in recent years, as well as the offering of parking lots and green areas. The city line will, for example. Padnahol, now a green area. Not to be overlooked is the driving disorder that follows this procedure in traffic vessels that will last about 10 to 15 years. It will be necessary for urban management to make public effort to travel by public transportation tripled from the present level. Now there are only 4% of travel in the capital area by bus, but the ratio has to reach 12%, so the case works out. If this situation fails, the loss of a city line may be worth billions each year. Thus, it seems that the urban line is extremely adverse and risky, and with smaller expenditures and a variety of means, much more can be achieved in improving transport in the area. There is a very low demand for the type of transport that the city line offers. There is little good in the half - dozen city linecars around the network. However, the type of transport today that is highly sought will be greatly affected by the use of road vehicles now dedicated to the city line. Thus, the urban line will increase traffic jams during periods of stress and will not reduce them. The conclusion of a report by the Danish Advisory on the city line confirms that the demand for a city line is inadequate. In order to promote demand, therefore, specific measures must be taken. In its loose translation, COWI finds it necessary to take rather unfashionable compression action to achieve enough passengers in the city line. Among other things, public carriages are suggested to take first place in the road at the expense of cars, as well as to maintain policy in parking parking. The city line cars are going to be electrically powered, which is stored in themselves, but these cars are not necessarily saved but electric cars. A heavy and large city line car must be very effective for each passenger's energy consumption to be smaller than for a passenger on a light electric truck. As the incidence of travel increases, there is less likely to be a reduction in spot-on use. Unlike electric cars, city line cars will often have to drive empty. V.E.G. President. I see my time is running out, and I haven't finished my speech yet. I wish to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u112	Mr. President. We'll discuss the transport programmes that are a policy layer that we all know are so revised on a regular basis. I want to talk about two things in this talk. First, I'd like to discuss only the information on the city line project and second, in general, the transport issues in the capital area. This has been shown in articles in magazines or websites - and what I'm about to quote in this article. written on the core and on the business sheet. Maybe that's all they've been over writing down here. We are not the first country or first capital area to try to solve these public transportation, and we have many of us taking advantage of public transportation abroad and see how people do it there. Of course, there are different costs and costs. Examples taken in the above - mentioned publication include: Consider a job in Norway, what they call in the Norwegian Bus Sveien bus route, or something like that, a city line, if you want to use the fine word. At least there is the special space for fast cars, one hundred miles if I had just noticed, and 2014 was, according to this article in the business magazine, estimated that the cost of the project was about 50 billion bucks. But 2019 - that is the year since, in the spring of 2019 likely - this cost had reached 206 billion, leaving 50 billion to 206 billion, i.e. the estimated cost of this repair. It suggests that in a city line plan it is estimated that the one mile [1.2 billion km] will be $1.4 billion, which cost was about 33/4 billion out in Norway based on this information. As a result, I think it is very important that before these steps will be taken at the General Assembly, which will tie up the state funds over the years, the information available will be more accurate than we have today. You can come here and quote some reports and such, but, of course, there are other reports that say other things. So it is important that you sit down and make a frame of work, but you do not leave an open point or an open way that will interpret and send accounts on, and then I'm looking at the state funds. It's our responsibility in here, the Generals, to protect the interests of the state funds, to keep the contribution here. We're supposed to make sure that there's as little uncertainty as possible when it comes to such a great deal of government projects, and not just on big projects, but usually. Of course, we are to do so in general, but especially in the case of giant projects like this. Then I'm just gonna come into the other one I want to mention, and it's just general transportation and the plans that have been in the capital area. Earlier this evening, it was noted that it was the chairman of the Central Party, Sigmmund Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, who said that the city in its time had actually given up a set amount of money, a few billion dollars, and received money instead of the bus system. As a result, the project had been unsettled in the capital area. I think it's a responsibility to do this in view of the fact that the roads have been left behind in this area here. When you're getting out of the city, trying to get to the north or otherwise, you're wondering all the time it takes to drive from downtown to the city's fun or just up to Kjalarnes. This is because other people don't have all the traffic in a good way. Then you begin to wonder: " What kind of ambitious attitude is it at Reykjavíkurburg and the rural areas in the capital area not to see that these situations can arise here on the corner where people need to come away, a natural disaster, or something like that? We can see that the Gulf is waking up right now. Although there is everything else in the land, it can happen just as well on the Smokeynes, or up the Blue Mountains as around them, in Henglin. All of this may require evacuation. It can't be done with a city line, it's perfectly clear. That will not be done by sending everyone to these fast cars who will end up somewhere in Mosfellstown. You have to be able to get people away so much faster. That's why you don't understand. President, to be as important as the Sunway has been left dead as it doesn't matter. It is only now that we are looking for some real effort - and not a significant effort - to see what to do with the Dizziness Way. This is because the city authorities are simply forced into treaties with the government. It is a great responsibility that is in the arms of the local government in the capital area, especially Reykjavíkurburg, not to have thought of how its inhabitants can get out of the city to what we hope will, of course, not happen. But we have to assume that. Some had assumed that an epidemic might arise, such as this Korean virus, but they were not prepared for it. We live on a volcano, and we know that natural disasters will occur at regular intervals, knowing that earthquakes and volcanic eruptions will occur. Thus, we must be prepared for all possible situations in due course, but this has not been done. Of course, it is responsible for the course of the capital city, mainly its capital, the past few years, i.e. to focus on trying to build this bus system with very little success; there are very few people using it today, only an increase in between, of course, positive years, since we also want to see that there is a public transport system. At the same time, however, something else is being ignored, and there is a great responsibility for those making such a decision. You've been watching the news about the possibility of planning construction or some kind of building, I think it's started, in one of the line lines that have been considered to be for the Sunway, when it's actually over. That is not one thing; it is all that has been done to eliminate this project. At the same time, we know who have been driving through the capital area well traffic jams and stops that could have been solved by the misdemeanor, with more light control, etc. All of it was canceled. They'd rather get billions, over a ten - year period, if I recall correctly, into a bus that turned out not to return what was expected. It is, of course, a great responsibility to go on such an enormous project, such as the so - called city line and its entitlement, without fully realizing the cost of the future. We can pretty much tell ourselves that going on this big project is very difficult to get back from. The project will at the same time attract, if not all, the funds available for exchanges that can travel in the capital area unless there is a clear definition of the rights and duties of all parties and such factors in the existing embryos. Mr. President. It is only natural that such large topics will be discussed together during the discussion. This is two transport plans, one to 2024 and the other 2034. This involves a great deal of policy on the part of the government, so it is very important that all stones be rolled over and given a good time to do so. We realize, however, that this program is being reviewed regularly, but the goal is being set in a specific way, and it is what is important for us to consider here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u113	Mr. President. We're still discussing a transport plan. I spoke for Internal Affairs 2. My share of it. Monday night, and since then this has been a topic of discussion. I'm coming to my second speech and I'm going to do a little bit of a special thing, a unique hobby, about transportation. I went over all of this last time, i.e. The committee's opinion and a little bit more, but now I'm going to discuss some very specific things that I'm particularly interested in. First of all, I'm going to go over and point out the currency lines. I'm not entirely certain that humans will understand how different they are and how many people are, and when and how that happens. I'm going to add a little bit to that in this talk, along with other things. You see, Mr. President it's not just one idea, it's another idea. First of all, and now I begin my list, I have an idea of a transport exchange plan. And how does it sound? Under a section on a tunnel, the members of the body say: The EEA also supports the vision that direct contributions from transport and land management programmes depend on part of the implementation costs of soils, and to cut off the traffic capital of parts as well as on the price for operating and maintenance of the tunnel. This is from the Commission's list of parts of the transport committee. It's about tunnels. This is, in effect, a currency for operating and the expense of a tunnel. We're discussing a proposal for an interpretation of a transport plan right now, so I was quoting it here. There's an idea of remuneration. In a recent bill - 1st. We're done, but there's more money waiting for us, there's a bill on the official stock society, i.e. A cooperation project on road projects - there are plans for this so - called combustion in the capital area, i.e. that in the stockways of the capital area they will raise traffic charges called quick charges now, which will show in the bill that these projects in the capital area will be financed by these speedy and traffic costs and possibly also to pay for public transportation, make it uncomfortable to be on a family car, and that these family cars will be charged with certain parts of the city, thus getting people to jump into public cars rather than choose the family car. It's an idea number two and it's also in charge of the council now, i.e. so-called remuneration or quick fees in the capital area. I first mentioned the earth tunnel concept that can be found in the opinion of more part, a transport plan now. But the third concept is a bill that is in attendance but has only been submitted, i.e. The bill on cooperation projects on roads. It is the six projects, the Sunway, the Double Wrench Crawl, the Hornland River, the Elfjörður River, the Garth of the North, and the Asxi on the East Coast. That's the third idea of currency involved in that bill. It discusses that the six projects, when and if carried out, will be financed in part or in total by charges. And why am I referring to this and listing these three issues for the treatment of the council today, all for the treatment beyond the reach of some? I'm referring to this, Mr. President, because all three of these routes are different and government approachs vary. This, of course, greatly increases the misunderstanding. The complexity is greatly enhanced when this is stated in a way that three different types of currency is being mentioned at the same time in three different and varied tasks. These are all very different tasks, one in the capital area, a quick fee, a tunnel that may be to create somewhere, taking the fees there, and then the six cooperation projects, which is the third way. I have a special opinion that one of these primary sites is given to my opinion that, first of all, the currency should be discussed in general and clearly, not in the vague nature and presentation of the council there. We're supposed to discuss this openly and seriously and take all the factors at once and not confuse people as if I've done some of my own. These are, however, three different means of payment for transport workers, three different avenues available to the council today. Three currency, three types of injection technique, three needles. I have stressed that it is necessary to make a clear reference level as soon as possible. It hasn't been done. There are some figures in the air, but there's nothing in the hand there. There, governments must also tell us exactly how they think of making the payoffs of roads. I have given special attention to the government's dropping, as soon as taxing is paid, other car owners' curses to meet those costs. I have also emphasized, Mr. President, that human beings avoid a product of collecting roads. We were talking about a cooperation project on roads, which could be called the Horn of the Earth, the Elfunion Bridge, and the Snow Valley. If a user drives from Hornfjord to Reykjavík, he could drive through all these gates that I was calling, he would have to drive through all three sides unless he passed them by some hook. He'd have to pay for it three times. Then he would be in the suburbs of Reykjavík and may have to pay quick or perfunctory fees within the cities. If he was going to go down to downtown or to the Land Hospital, he might have to go through one or two sides and pay the swift fees so that he could get on his way. It may be necessary to pay four or five times on the way, and this is not so far away because these projects, the Alf - Year Bridge, the Snow Valley, and the Hornland River, are very early in the implementation program when the six cooperation projects are made. It's further down in the Sunway, it's further down in the Hagga tunnel, so this user would become a product of multiple effects, and I believe the government should explain exactly how they have thought to meet such users. I've spent way too much time on this, but I was going to spend even more time on it. I'm going to draw attention to an article published in the reactor, Mr. President, a more recent article written by Þórarinn Hjaltason, a traffic engineer arguing on the development of the city authorities on transport systems in the capital area. This article shows that he believes that the city authorities, in these important and predatory organizational matters, are presented, not in a rational way, but with propaganda - related slogans to win a city line. He is very convincing in this article, and I was going to go through it, but I see that I can't begin to study it right away. He compares these with other cities, and he cites examples of those who are bringing this urban propaganda that has chosen cities that are not at all comparable, comparing themselves with what is best in foreign lands, something very rare - comparing themselves with cities that may be similar to those that are even bigger - and that are concealing facts in this regard. All of this is done for the purpose of building the city line, the projects that are connected to it, would be more acceptable for those who will pay the bridge, mostly the government, and then the rural areas in the capital area. I urge you to read this article, which is a long one. I'm not gonna read it all, but I'm gonna grab it. He speaks of a similar city mentioned on the city page, i.e. Stavger. There's been an increase in plans, but they've been similar to the plans we've been taking on the city line, perhaps 50 billion. The newest plans for a city line in Stavanger, which is actually smaller than the one we're talking about, are worth $70 billion, so people are not going anywhere on this kind of project. This traffic expert and engineer also mention a much less expensive route that serves even the same purpose and provides the same result, i.e. that there may be some lanes in the biggest streets, but not, as we have been watching, lay a red carpet throughout the capital area for these wagons, which were to be light cars but are now called, I think, speed wagons. I guess it's a lot, though I haven't studied the exact difference. It's supposed to be a short-reading system, but now we're talking about a fast - moving system that's a little cheaper than it's the same thing or the same as they in Stavanger intend to surface. I encourage the audience to study this on the NG Web site, this article, by Þórarinn Hjaltason. He also makes comments on the fact that a city page is asked: " What happens if we skip a city line? Then the website answers: If the city does not exist, it is inevitable to invest in the road and road system of the capital area up to 2040 for up to 250 billion dollars. Despite the above investments, the speed of traffic will almost double until 2040. Then, with the permission of a president, Þórarinn says: ▪ This is a very misleading presentation. A reader may easily feel that with the city line, most of these 250 billion can be saved, and the speed of traffic increases much less. Then he says - I've had my time - that it's not at all and it's an misleading presentation on a city page in a propaganda line.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u114	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for his speech. They have acted similarly, in counsel. The members of the Central Party. It's like I see them sitting in a circle, the entire assembly, sitting in an ivory tower, calming down and saying, "It's all too expensive. They don't know what they're doing. How much is this gonna cost? They don't see anything because the glass is aglow. I feel that the Central Party is developing in a constant sense that the preparation of this project, which has had its great impact, is almost efficient. The smallest element of this grand task has been distinguished and distinguished. I don't belittle it's big and big and it's expensive, but we're investing for the future. This will be an enormous improvement in the long future. I know why. A senator realizes that we are not necessarily doing this for us. We're doing this for the future of the city, and we're doing this for the environment. We can't go on like this. That's for sure. If we're going to decompress the private car as we've done, it's going to cost a lot of money, and we can't even take the second round by it. It is said that the machines, as I say, were in some kind of panic. But count 'em why. A senator that the rural communities that have joined together after a long period of misery find error and quiet and do not know what they are doing? There has been a detailed cost plan for these factors. But it's never too easy, and I agree with the senator about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u115	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðjón's Brjánsson for his counter-sponsore. He was in a lot of trouble, and I'm not surprised. It's been in the car shop and it's been planning for a very long time. He says that these rural communities have finally solved this issue, or they can see that it will be solved by a long time of misery, such as labour. A senator put it so pleasant, and he's absolutely right. The capital area has been under siege for decades, especially during the past ten years, on the field of transportation. Why would that be, anyway? Senator? Because the 2011 experiment was made with an agreement to promote public transport. In 2011, if I'm right, a contract was made, and the State put $1 billion a year to try to increase the share of public transportation. In short, the experiment failed. But the mayor's share is determined to continue on the same path, trying to advance public transportation even though it has failed so miserably over the past nine years. During this experiment, over the last nine years, there has been a construction stop, Mr. President, in the capital area, and everyone sees it. Only a driver in the family car does he sees it because he is stopped. No matter where he's going, he's everywhere to stop. This is because there has been nothing done to make room for the family car over the past nine years; there has been no mishappen, no shaped roads, no newly established roads. Nothing's been done. There's been a construction stop, Mr. President. And that's why the rural communities, like a snooze, are dropping their breaths. A senator expressed it. I will, in the later answer, explain this a little better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for answering. This has taken a long time, since many have been involved, and the strength of the project is that it is the cooperation of many rural partners. Hv. A senator takes deep note of the years when he says that it was a complete construction stop. It has been criticized that such massive traffic weights have been overindulged. But with regard to the cost of this, it's expensive, as mentioned, but plans have been made, and it's like a rough one. A senator who is well - experienced and employed is the complex project of a difficult situation. We're supposed to be doing as many cautions as we possibly can and be careful. We are to demand that council members be taken care of with all our money in common. But I allow myself to assert that all aspects of the matter have been taken into consideration. Hv. A senator mentioned an article written by an expert who disagrees, and of course we should listen to critical voices, but we are not supposed to be cutting back and forth, and we must not run the train. We need to keep on, because time is running out. The future awaits us. It is a way of transportation that is widely known in many lands, and the project is clearly clear. It's been organized. I'm pointing out what. A senator at a fine show, which is on the other side of the street, in the City Hall, about this big project. It shows how and how they are thought and organized.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u117	Mr. President. I promised you what. A senator finished, and I was there where there had been a nine - year construction stop after a very big number of years as well. The car owners and family drivers have stopped in their cars most mornings and afternoons if they have intended to get to work or just get on their way. [[Up front.]] You're right about what you're doing. A senator, he said, "We need to move on. " But these people have not made it. There's just been nothing going on, Mr. Senator. There's been no land or coast. That's what all the capital people know. And what to do? [[Up front.]] What's to be done? All the neighbors were under siege. And when this brilliant idea arises, and the mayor of Reykjavík offers the neighboring community, and the state that jumped on the wagon, the evil charm, finally to make some false street meets, and finish some sort of root courses, where was the ransom? City line. They'll have to pay in the city line. But they were so alive that they saw any progress in the highways, and that they offended the corners of the streets where they were all stopping today, that they leaped on the cart, and went to pay for the ransom. But who pays the highest ransom? It's a government fund. That's what I'm arguing with, that the state fund is about to go on a project that's so unfashioned and cost plans so low. This will cost considerably more, and the cost will riseÞórarinn but it will rise by 10 billion just recently. He says so in his own article. How much more will we see it rising? To get out of the siege, neighboring communities signed up to get something going in their rural society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u118	A respectable president. This has been a matter of a few days of transportation program, and I'm not going to find out, as the matter is extensive, and there is no change over the years when the national transport issues are discussed. I have a clear understanding that this is where people come from their own votes to break their views and emphasize projects, especially in their own district. But then I've heard here that the capital area has been given quite a discussion, particularly in view of its looking to a slight advantage in the transport program where the multi-developed capital agreement is expected to be related to construction in the capital area and I'm going to discuss it only below. I'm going to skate across the country in all respects, with all due respect for the country's construction and all the needs of projects that are faced by various kinds of soils and mountain roads and so forth. I'm going to be the sole subject of Reykjavík, not even the capital area that I heard was for the discussion just before, just the matter of Reykjavík. There is good reason to correct what has been previously stated in the talks of many members of Congress that here in Reykjavík the past decade has been a stop. This is because of the agreement made at the time for no money to be made in Reykjavík, but because of the agreement made at the time to make more money than had previously been made to public transport in an effort to increase their share in all the trips within the capital area. This has led to dramatic consequences in Reykjavík. There's a faraway situation in transport, a state of absolute permafrost. It is very important to have a road attack in Reykjavík. Sadly, this transport program will only take a minute look at the road work in Reykjavík. I can almost say there's nothing we can do about it in Reykjavík. You can't just say that because there's a small amount of work to be done with one of the corners I'm going to trace below. This construction stop has resulted in the failure of the city of Reykjavík, which has led to significant and significant consequences. Of course, it is imperative that roads be designed to be made in such a way that those who drive and drive in Reykjavík, in particular, have grown dramatically, not only for tourists but also for the increase in the number of people in the capital area. It has increased traffic, and it is vital that safety be maintained. This too has led to the sad consequences of Reykjavík, and I would worry if I were in charge of the city, but I also do as a long - suffering smoker in both directions and as a 1st. Smoke. As a result, both public institutions and companies from Reykjavík and businesses and the institutions of the State, which have been in the 1990's, look to other centres. Last time we watched Hafnarfjörður. People know that I was working with the police as I sat in the Justice Department looking for a more suitable home. There's a situation where the police have to move off the Hill Street. There are some places, but most of them are outside of the city of Reykjavík. I had it checked and had it checked out especially how to take the police to the local community, and there's nothing to recommend it at conventions, but there's only one place in Reykjavík that would be available, at Sunfar, for the police in Reykjavík, and several other places in the capital area. I was concerned with hearing the viewpoint of some of the police who had no particular objection to leaving Reykjavík, and this should be the case with the city authorities. In Kópavogi, a land law that took place outside Reykjavík, in my minister's day, was found. The shopkeeper in the capital area is also located in Kópavogi. There is no county in the capital any more, and so on. From private companies, I can mention Icellands, who have moved their extensive operations to Hafnarfjördur. This should be a concern for the city authorities. It's a trend that doesn't provide the end. A transport program assumes the so - called capital contract that our communities around us wrote down, along with the city of Reykjavík and the State on transport development. So that in the capital agreement, they are expected to make an excellent effort for their neighboring communities to obtain considerable benefits. However, when it comes to Reykjavík, the so - called city line is to be expected, which is an unexplored phenomenon. I'm not going to discuss the city line specifically because it's not the subject of another discussion, but as it is now, it doesn't seem to be on the tight side. What is to be done mainly in behalf of Reykjavík is this city line to come and take the corners of the River Valley and the end of Fos Soilway, while other real roads are not in the lake. It's very serious. The estimated 50 billion in this so - called city line are expected to fail to keep in mind the simple, practical road ventures in Reykjavík will be effective very quickly and will also be inexpensive. At that time, I am more likely to look at the discrepancies that are faced by all the people who have been involved in transportation, and the road has been repeatedly proposed to be made; the misappreciative corners of the Grand Ways and Highways, and the Grand Ways and the Grens Rivers. No longer will it be a pleasure to be carried out as this offense, several billion dollars, of the amount of money thought for the city line, which is an entirely unattainable phenomenon. Unfortunately, in this transport program, half of the funds intended for transport in the capital area are expected to take the road to development, while half the species that humans have only sadly chosen to ignore, i.e. ... ina public transport. But I'm not going to stand here and talk in public transportation, not at all. Of course, they need to be cared for, and no city or community with any ambition may fail to offer some kind of public transportation. In this covenant, the target is to double the share of public transportation from 4% to 8%. This is compared to 2011, which was more than 4%. But it is still today 4%, the share of public transportation in the capital area, or Iceland, is 4%, or the public transport involved. There's hope that she'll be up to 8%. And although we get public transportation up to 8%, it is unlikely to expect to share in public transport 50 billion when there is no greater involvement in public transport than this one. I'm sure a few years ago when city officials were studying these issues, during the days of these ideas, and went to experts in Germany, I think in Freiburg, where a famous city line is, where men introduced these ideas and were looking for advice, they were asked: How many people are using public transportation? That was 2%1/23% at the time. The message to the Icelanders grew, and they were trying not to reflect on such things as city lines, no matter how it was implemented, do not try to reflect on such things until public transportation has been reached in general into 40%. Everything else is a dream, it's a complete lack of reality. This is what we need to smoke on, that the state has made a contract with the city of Reykjavík for continued construction stop in Reykjavík, with the reduced quality of life of the country's country, with the exception of road failures. On the other hand, the capital deal is of great benefit to our neighbors. They are receiving long - awaited roads that have been under way by the government for the past few years, and I congratulate them on this. Above all, they get this city line that I think they don't have to lay out for, the neighboring communities, but to the extent that it comes from the State with some kind of currency. But I'm not going to discuss it, there's still another debate whether it's justified in the city of Reykjavík, where the traffic is so high, here's 123,000 people, to add an extra law on car owners to finance this city's interests. To this also may be added, and I think it is necessary to discuss it, and, in fact, more or more of it is introduced. The Environment and Transport Committee, that today's environment is very different when it comes to contributing taxes on government spending than when this transport plan was submitted. After the Covid epidemic, there are hundreds of billions of dollars of dollars that no human expected when the city had a contract of about 50 billion and only 50 billion in actual transport improvements here in the capital area. Now we see that tail. I miss, in fact, I have to tell my partners in the majority of the committees that have not discussed a little more about the failures that have occurred since Covid and how it affects the structure of transport. It points to what can be disputed, as it is often said, is a form of phrase, that in such a year's journey, high income contractions, and economic events, it is just a great time to go into a very large structure of transport and road construction. Let it be between parts. But there is no doubt that the coin they thought would exist, when they set out and wrote under the capital contract, will not exist in the next few years. All you have to do is face that reality. Then it is of great importance that the limited money available here should come to Reykjavík, and I emphasize it, in order to correct the situation of transport here, and to be given wisely and practical. Again, I stress and reiterate that even if it was only the two mistaken corners I mentioned earlier, it would immediately ease traffic and make it more practical. It should not be forgotten, however, that the city - mostly city and urban - is thus built up to face the need for traffic flows. Finally, I'd like to mention it when people have to go into the private car in this room, to what I've called the best friend of family members or families in the country, children and those who have to go a long way and have to take care of things, to care of elderly parents, to care for their heads and backs, to drive and drive after a variety of services, to be hostile to the car, that the car has never been as safe as it is today, as practical in business as it is today, and in the environment as it is today. So, as soon as the cars get so environmentally friendly, what happens? The left men don't stop. They may have a car that doesn't even pollute. Many who have complained about it, and they have found a car that does not pollute, but they do not feel hurt, yet they do not stop. I don't know, Mr. Honorable President, what it is that moves people on in this lawsuit against the families of the country, against the people who have much to do with today and who have children who are engaged in leisure activities. It wasn't like when I was a child that children had to be driven out of a hurry to attend music and sports classes. It just wasn't available. Now that it is available, it has to be cared for. Does that mean that there are some people who are against the private car? A respectable president. As I said before, I'm glad there's a public transportation, but there's not even been a short ride here in Reykjavík running public transportation with ordinary buses. Rounding-and-go-round with a transport system and a frequency of travel. Nothing's run, nothing's worked. They have not even wanted to try to offer free access to a bus for a while to see if it would increase the participation, expected they would not have the guts in the city. Perhaps it would be an attempt to test it first and improve the public transport available here. When we talk about improving transportation in Reykjavík, it is important that we are increasing our traffic volumes, not just changing them from road to public transportation, and not just, as the capital contract assumes, to move the cars to the city tunnel in Reykjavík and make all who drive in cars, perhaps many times a day, some kind of dirt plant, to send them to travel below the earth. It does not improve traffic or facilitate traffic around the city to move it to. The number of blood vessels needs to be increased, reducing the stress of individual roads. It will be done most by various means, the cheapest and most practical way. You don't have to be afraid of a masquerade pack, that they're like people seen in the 1970 American movies. Today, a mild - tempered convention takes into account pedestrians and bikers. They will not rise from the earth high. They can even rise a few feet, and I'm told by the experts in these matters at the Road Type. You don't have to be afraid of that. This, a respectable president, is what we here in Reykjavík need to emphasize. I'll do it, put a lot of emphasis on it. That is why I am living up to a schedule once again that I do not take into account the needs of our families in Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u119	A respectable president. We'll discuss this waste of transport plans, the less than 5 years old and the longer to 15 years. It's a big plan. It saves land transport, sea transport, and transport. In this brief speech, I will discuss a little about the circumstances in the district I represent here at the General Assembly. It is a Pacific-West district, which is a very wide - wide example but not as densely populated or versatile. In many ways, this transport program, or convergence proposal for transportation, is good. It is ambitious, and it is clear that after several neglects in the past few years and even decades, the infrastructure needs to be strengthened. People want to respond promptly, and in many cases it is possible, but these are costly factors that need careful attention. They do not necessarily agree on the means to set goals, to improve the infrastructure, to build them up. Bankcounts have been discussed and planned in certain cases. As noted in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason is covering three trilogy matters these days, where the funding of wood is close and there we are divided into two corners. Clearly, energy exchange is ahead of us in transport, and it is equally clear that we need to revise all transport by laying down expenses in a scattered way. On the spots here and where the country is being experimented with some old system that we don't know how to end except that it will at least For those who use these structures, increased spells are temporarily translated. A respectable president. I'm just gonna get a few CPRs on the West. As we know, it's the will of the government, at least " decrees, to strengthen the country's settlements all over the country, "we've made ourselves a foundation plan. It's been three years since we agreed on our last ground plan, and now it's time to reevaluate. Reexamination has just begun and has been introduced, and hopefully we'll make progress there. In most parts of the country, built - up trends have been negative. The number of people has been reduced. In some cases, governments have tried to employ specific measures during the past few decades by promoting construction in various fields of employment. The final turn of events was the rise of the bazaars. At that time, there was a marked resistance in many areas of professional, localised, and then tenaciously on the adverse side. If only we deal with the West, that part of the country for some 30 years has been dealing with a recession of the economy and with a steady decrease in population. It's fascinating but challenging territory. The population has been affected by natural disasters, and this total account has been cut off. The decrease in population from rural areas has been in the range of 253/45%, and age combinations have changed substantially and are typically higher in those areas that are somewhat older, older, older, and older. During the last five years, however, it has been true that this negative development has been slowed down and has become reversed, so to speak, in southern Western Europe, for example. in the Sleighen carpet, and in the north side of the West, significant improvements. The evidence for this is fish farming and, indeed, tourism, but the fishing industry and industry follow. Sadly, on the beach, we see continued negative developments. It is a recession in sheep's farms, which has a major impact on the worse and beyond, and the Coastal population has been affected by adverse events in the fishing road. This can be turned around, and therefore the Stranders will turn around, I have conviction. We've got opportunities for innovation, but we've got to follow through on them. Then we need to mean what we have here on the word, i.e. We need to consider that innovation in agriculture, as in so many other fields. The building of fish farmers and tourism is the main factor in positive developments we see on the West. Its land is truly valuable. The level of production for the whole country is estimated to be about 25 billion at this time, and the main weight of that production has been linked to Bilddal and is to see that the mind remains active in this work, providing additional support for this so strongly linked industry by fully working more products, and it is already at sea. However, Westerners see that because of the weight of a bottle's neck, it may not be easy to improve production, to increase activities in various areas. Transport can't meet the demands of employment and society today, and a transport policy must be taken into account, and it must be put up with more transport in these areas. This has been known, and of course, it has to be noted that governments have been improving this role. They're working on a lot of work at animal funerals or Hrafnsey tunnels, depending on what they're called, and there's some money waiting to get to work in the road that's often called the Chets Forest. I hope that this will be a way of working so that we can argue over this process so that we can see clear ways that some are wintering in behalf of the population, in the interests of the economy, and in the interests of tourists who see there a beautiful landscape from a new perspective. I trust the Road program so well that it becomes a waste of this beautiful part of the country that has no model in the country, I'd like to say. As I mentioned at the outset, Mr. President, there is a global northwest country that differs from internally. It is divided into industrial areas, trade and services areas, marine areas, and then agricultural areas. It is, therefore, difficult to have total solutions for such areas other than making transport a stronger core. There's plenty to take. In the Northwestern district, for example. The highest share of malaria in the root system and the national network. These are areas that are diseased by tourists throughout the year, although there is a delay in these times, a popular and beautiful area for tourists to attend home. We have mentioned roads that have often been found in the media, e.g. The road through waternes, one of the areas in which there is a pearl area. It is only right to make a decision once more that there is an urgent remedy. It's a flourishing agricultural area. In many towns and children are living in school cars, and they do not feel comfortable driving through street roads during the winter, one of the longest schools in the country. Mr. President. There are, of course, more than roads, ports. Much of these areas have had to extract valuables from the sea, and we as a seafaring nation should keep them in good condition. There's no harbor policy for Iceland. It's what we need. Conditions are changing. The number of cruise ships is increasing, and adjustments in rejection are needed accordingly. In the southern part of the West, fishing industry also calls for better ports. In this transport program, there is something lacking that the need to be met and that each year we need about one year. 2.2 billion into the transport program so that emergency treatment can be eliminated. On the other hand, the harbors need to be electricalized, making them environmentally friendly for the large ships that burn even hundreds of thousands of tons each year in Icelandic ports. Then there's the airport. We in the Northwestern district have no bonus, so to speak, airport. The airport at Isafjordon is not a permanent airport, and it is considered in foreign magazines to be a high - risk airport and an adventure airport, an airport for adventurers. We need to find a new airport place, and it will be an adventure for the Westerners to experience the possibility that they may obtain one airport that could be sufficient for all Westerners. Alexander's airport in the South Pacific is an excellent airport, which needs to be activated for training and exercise, and I also mention the airport at Thyatira, which is also an important transport barrier for the Westerners. A respectable president. I see that my time is running out, so I finish my course.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u120	V.E.G. President. As I observed the discussion, I was excited to hear it. paritaprevir A daughter named Oddný Harðardóttir would be introduced to a game, and I didn't realize that it was my turn. But, of course, I welcome to speak up. And while that may not be quite part of the program, I have to make sure that the last speaker, w. paritaprevir The Brjánsson, who surprised me and others, no doubt, by stating that the Stranders could reverse their population development through agriculture. It's a lot of news to me, but of course I hope he's going to be right. We, the middle class, will not be able to deal with him if he has ideas to promote the Icelandic agriculture. Other than that, the highest. President, I was very happy earlier when the voice of reason in the Independence Party, huh? paritaprevir Sigrírdur Á. Andersen, gave a shoddy talk here that was quite contrary to what was the chief expert on the Independence Party in public transportation, sharp. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, has held up a talk more than once. It's like I'm saying, it's a microchip on the voice of reason in the Independence Party for public transportation. It was at the councilman's office to hear that she was not just as willing to shovel money into the Union government in Reykjavík and the rest of the Independence Party seems to exist, and it is surprising. But I didn't mean to talk about it. Actually, I was going to talk about the bus system to some extent. Nine years ago and 9 billion later, the government, which was then about to contribute 1 billion a year to public transportation in the capital area. At that time, the proportion of people who used the public transportation system was 4%, but after nine years and 9 billion is the standard, the highest. President, 4% use public transportation in the capital area. So there has been no success in this experiment, shall we say? This is based on a report that I read the other day from the Manu Manu Lab. This was shown at the very beginning of a report that this was the case. It is of interest to continue to open the state's budget and shovel money with pitchforks in the ongoing efforts of public transportation in the capital area, with no small experiment, but an attempt of tens of billions. And it is not clear to everyone what it should be. For example, the highest. Secretary of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, declared it in the General's symposium, in response to an inquiry from what might be said. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, that he should not know what the city's line is. Yet, he is prepared to overpower 50 billion of the government's money in an experiment that he does not know. This kind of reminds me of an old story about a man who first seduced rodents by playing a whistle but ended up hurting children in the village because they followed him blindly. In some way, you feel that this is the Independence Party of Building on the Fall of a Convergence Greater Part, supported by a groping list of crutches. Speaking of making a deal with Reykjavíkurburg, Mr. President, it's not a very simple thing because treaties do not seem to be relevant to anyone in the city of Reykjavík. Let me give you an example. It is this way, and it has been highly promoted that all mayors of the neighboring countryside have signed a special covenant, a transport contract. Just beyond the citymarks where I live, there's been a lot of pressure coming in from there to there, i.e. ... onSeltjanarnes. After Selling was used to contribute money to this grand experiment, it has been tighter than ever. I heard the mayor declare the other day that it was an irresistible idea to put here on a marquee so called i.e. a slender bus, which would probably be some addition to the city line. I expect him to be waiting for the independence party to open the purse as well, Mr. President. There may be men, by pressing to the Ring Road, by pressing Birkim, by placing a number of traffic lights on the Avenger, to prepare for seaports, either from Bakkawart or the small boat crew on Seltjanarnes to get here to Reykjavík. It's gonna be interesting to see what it's gonna be like. However, the mayor of Setjanarness has presented protests, understandable, because these delay people who are needed for work, leisure activities, and so forth. This is also a safety element because it is just the same as what I mentioned in my first talk here today, i.e. The waterway and its share in emptying the capital area if it came, for example, here. ... toa natural disaster. I really hope that humans will not be stuck with it any time soon, because, as we do in Reykjavík, I am afraid it would take a long time to empty the capital area. I'm gonna spend the little time I have left to cross the buses as I was about to do in the beginning. It's this 4% who uses public transportation, and it's not changed for nine or nine billion years. As a matter of fact, I feel that there may be some compromise to make 50 billion tax dollars in creating some dream vision that no one knows how to be. It would be refreshing to the bus system in Reykjavík. I think I'll have to keep this up in my next talk, but I'm going to kill on this right away because there's a little talk about it in the transport contract that we are going to look to the country for role models. I wouldn't mind. True, in Reykjavík, men have always been a bit bold when they go abroad for a change. For example, the mayor took a man's army to San Francisco to check out parking instructions a few years ago. And I thought testimonials only existed in the Faeroe Islands, even in Denmark or somewhere closer than this. But this happened on top of it. Of course it scares it. I hope people don't go to Shanghai to get knowledge of bus systems or anything like that. But it might come to humans to do so. The almost impossible advantage of bus routes is Álaborg, Denmark. I've known pretty well until then, had people there for many years, and visited that fine city many times a year. I told him earlier that I had to carry on with this for the next talk, and I have to do it. However, in Alaborg, people have considered the possibility of going into some kind of light - reading system. They looked at it for a while, but they risked it altogether. It is similar in size to the city of Reykjavík and with a population similar to that of the population. She's no less an area than Reykjavík, I think. So I think we should look there. But I have to consider it in the next talk. I'm done with my time, so please ask the President to add me to the rosary again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u121	Mr. President. I had started discussing public transportation during my last talk. I was just beginning to mention the so - called city line in that regard. In the meantime, that happened. paritaprevir Sigrírdur Á. Andersen gave a bold talk on a transport plan and actually mentioned the city line, but he could, like the highest level. In fact, a minister of finance has also done nothing to know what it was, that would be impossible. It is no doubt the government's position that this is all unattainable, but it is not the position of the city; it is not the stand of the mayor's department that continues to pump out reports and reports on the city line. In fact, they change their mind on how to design this thing, but it seems that they have their opinion of what a city line should be. In view of experience, you fear that the will of the mayor's department will be at the top of this, such as so many other factors in the relations between the city and the state, especially transport and organizational matters. The conclusion, then, is that there is virtually commitment to the state, a blunder of taxpayers for a long time, or until a young or at least a long time. A relatively young man who spits down senators like a boy. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son will be high in his 70's and even the highest. Secretary of finance is now in his 70's, approaching 70. Until then, the State, and taxpayers, will be obliged to pay on projects that governments themselves, the government, say are still unattainable. How could that be so? I will in the second speech of this discussion especially discuss this contract and its nature or the transport contract, as it is called. He simply assumes that the state is giving power to the city and to a new credit system, a new government society to handle all these matters so that it can work so hard to fulfill the Commission's campaign in Reykjavík, ensuring that it will be red to the next few years, even decades. In terms of the nature of the case itself, the city line, it is reviewed in a very recent report, since May of this year, from the city's research firm. In fact, this city's workshop is simply supposed to have all the power over the transport contract, while the official body I mentioned earlier is about to be completed. The plant released a report in May, the City Line. Hamraborg was the chief of the year. Drill the estimate plan. This is about the first phase. It gives interesting details about where this is headed, making it possible that by 2040, public transport will be a share of 12% of travel in the capital area, while the share of a walking and a bicycle will be 30%. First of all, I don't know what people are going to value these 30%. No doubt they can arrange it to make up this number if they go to form a list of people's trips within the house, as most of them traveled in the last few months. This is where people usually walk. The section of the private car, as says here, the family car, is to go down to 58%. Now this portion is 75%. So she's supposed to go down to 58% and share the public transportation from 4% to 12%. As I mentioned in my first talk and reason. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen mentioned and more, this aim has been made to increase the use of public transportation in the past. It's far too bad to say it hasn't been caught. Far from it! In fact, this 4% has not been changed, despite a huge worldwide campaign of billions of dollars for a decade. President. This is extremely difficult when you have only five minutes to make a move and are just about to get started in one conversation when the session is over. You kind of have to start from scratch next time. But I can't teach the highest. President on this. Perhaps it is more to ourselves that we are accused of not having asked for a longer talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u122	President wants to thank you. A senator for reminding him of his adult status.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u123	Mr. President. I would only like to establish a environmental assessment when it comes to road work and the fact that inconsistencies in environmental assessment requirements depend on the type of implementation involved. I'll agree with that in a little bit afterwards. I'd like to specifically mention Kjalway, but now the plans of the Road program are under attack in the construction of Kjal Road, chapter 17 km. This road is a very bad dirt road, as they know it has been. It is virtually a trail of chapters, degradations, and surfaces very rough. Thus, the adjustments are very important and aim primarily for raising the road surface so that the road does not work as a riverbed in the winter and in lasers during the spring to be damaged. However, the development of this road is a very important means of transport to the region. Despite bad conditions, the road has been massized in summer. However, the Agency has concluded that environmental assessment of these improvements should be carried out in an effort to address existing conditions. It is of interest in this matter that there is no new development. As we know, the road through the Kygle has been there for decades. The rural Blue Forest Society has protested that these improvements need to be done for environmental assessment because it severely delays the work and, of course, causes an increase in costs. It even appears that this is why these important projects will be postponed. It must be said at the moment, Mr. President, that it is absolutely unacceptable that necessary road repairs are repeatedly placed in a sort of hostage when it comes to environmental assessment. I'm saying this because I can mention another road that went into reform and was very successful, i.e. The chapter at Þingalva Road. Last autumn, a new and built - up road was dedicated. That road leads through sensitive territory and an old birch forest. The Þingalva Road is from 1974. It was rebuilt in harmony with traffic and traffic security. Though it was not necessary to undergo environmental assessment, the Kjall road needs to be used for environmental assessment. Bear in mind that the Þingvall Road is within the National Park, and as we know it, in 2004 the National Park of the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Scientific Organization is in its place. The National Park on the United Nations has a special protection under the law of the United States. We know that the ecosystem is delicate, but the Organization concluded that reforming the Þingalva Road was not likely to produce significant environmental impacts. National Protection didn't agree to the Environmental Protection and Resource Commission and no environmental environmental protection protocols. They did not have to go to environmental assessment. Here we see two projects similar to the one inconsistencies of the Agency's decisions on food and environmental assessment. Clearly, this need to improve the procedure and prevent such errors and to be able to trust in the right and naturalness of the decisions made in these substances, which clearly are not in the case of Kjal, if we compare them. I wanted to mention this here because this is a very important part of all the roads in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u124	Mr. President. It is not surprising that in discussions about transport in the capital area and in Reykjavík, the debate is about a considerable amount of city planning. The urban line-up concept is not well defined, let alone a significant cost strategy for it. In its inner nature, the issue is that there are plans on the part of the State to place tens of billions, one 50 billion, in the city line as well as the State's plans for the most valuable construction of this region, the Netherlands, into this pit. This is about reducing the standard of living, e.g. by keeping people in traffic jam for hours, as has been greatly complained in the past. This is about respecting Vettergis' counsel from police and ambulances through city traffic. It's like whisk. paritaprevir Sigridor Á. Andersen said: "There's been a traffic stop here. And what? paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiça said that the city had been under siege, and the state had the huge sum of money in the city line to provide a ransom in order for transportation reforms. You can see that there's been a subheading to put a double pass on the road. It is evident that the Grand Way, the main traffic point between East and West, is far too busy. For example, as you can see, the city has been unable to secure people who were walking through the Great Way or beneath it, and the pedestrians have no choice but to push a stoplight and perhaps stop dozens or hundreds of cars. Everyone knows that there is an enormous waste of energy and the pollution of the environment for these reasons. If I mention my old neighborhood, where I grew up, the West Side, we can see how things have been done. On the one hand, I mention Hofsvalla Street, with its birdhouses and public ills on the part of the city. This is so sad. It was a great path. And so does Birkimel, now virtually impossible. All of this is without cause and without cause and without need. I realize, Mr. President, that some people are very ill at talking about this city line and people take that risk, if they allow it, to get the word that they are opposed to public transportation and that they don't understand them. It is very difficult to bring up the matter that, on account of the state, it is taking a significant risk to those who negotiate, and then I'm talking about the city authorities as they are now ordered. They seem to have high levels of organizational expertise, and I have given some examples. Not to mention the situation is to be taken up in the financial affairs of the city. This means that cost schedules from this direction are not really significant and are not worth the paper. It must not be discussed with the government of the city, which both the district attorney and the U.S. government have made serious comments. Mr. President. It must be acceptable to refer to scholars and experts when discussing traffic arrangements, even though they are living in a city line. For example, in March 2018, a series of articles published by Þórarinn Hjaltason was published in the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures. He is a traffic engineer who writes about these factors, traffic systems, city lines, and international models. He gives the impression that regional and transport propaganda has been high in the capital area. By permission of the president, the author says: ▪ I believe that in the capital area's regional organization there is expected to be a far too expensive vehicle system. Propaganda for the city line has gone to an extreme. There are known political propagandas, such as limited information, semi-truth, misleading information, or even outright misinformation. He deals with these factors in his article that I don't have time to go deep into. He explains that from the top, the city line would be expected to be either a light - reading system or a motor vehicle system, and it would provide a light - reading system in a way that would make it unlikely that a vast, light - reading system would be considered to be an estimated number of 200,000,400,000 inhabitants of car cities. Says one author: I have no precedent for this. One author explains to readers that the most expensive part of the fast - moving system that must then be what lies on earth is special space or special lanes for the speed cars. He says that a greater part of the city's lead line is expected to be in special space. One author noted that cities vary greatly about the size of the combined length of the speed cars via special lanes. Referring to automobile cities in the United States and Canada, he says that this ratio, which is supposed to be more than half, is generally relatively low, especially in the smallest cities. He says that only where there are long - waiting cars in times of stress are those of the bus - lanes of the bus. Then he further says: " If we follow that custom - i.e. to make special streets only where there are long waitable cars in times of stress so that in the size of the city of Reykjavík, far away from being in special space - it will cost only a few billion people to complete the special streets in the capital area. That way, we can save several dozen billion people and not allow them to operate on the bus service. This is the very essence of this article. The author points out that taking into account the natural models, not tens of billions, but several billion. And this, of course, is the essence of this discussion about the city line, Mr. President, i.e. that this is an undefeated provision for public funds. I'm going to say that it is totally incomprehensible to me how it may be possible for the provincial group to finance this policy of the mayor's sector and first to spend 50 billion and second, to enter these grilled people, who have shown that it is in no way trustworthy to have power and influence, and to turn to the largest rural society in the country, and put it above, the Kaldland itself, the most valuable possession of the state in the capital area. This requires a specific explanation. The key point is that these goals can be reached at public transportation with much less cost if such experts as the one I have mentioned are listened to.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u125	V.E.G. President. I'd like to discuss this talk a little environmental and environmental. It has sometimes encouraged me and made me angry, when we discuss environmental matters around road roads and organizations, that community protection is not at the same time. It just hasn't been like that. When I discuss these matters, my mind is out in the country, and it comes to a road that hasn't been built yet, but is long done and should have been parked long ago, and it is the road through the famous Gufudal Desert. In effect, this project has been held hostage by a very small number of people who have stopped all their projects by their own means. It's very sad that this has been the case. But that's just the way life is. By the turn of the century, by and by the end of 2000, there was little work on the south side of the West, on the Patrecks'farms, on the Tribals farms, and on Bilddal, very little work to be. Some said, for example. on Bilddal that it would only turn off the lights. By the end of the series, however, the number of people on Patrecks'farms was small, and the number of people in these settlements was getting smaller. Between 2003 and 2006, this road had been designed for a Gufudal regiment, and it was ready for tenders, but it did not result from the environmental charges. From 2010 on, salmon farms begin at where I listed them, and that has changed the human life there. Today, the number of people has increased, and this production is billions of them each year. However, the road has not yet arrived in Chets Forest, and it is amazing that this road did not happen. It's a terrible way, though it's good weather and much less wintertime. What's saved the heavy transports and transports that go through there is the flea boat Baldur, which runs over there. The cars could've gone with him. Similarly, when the heathen can be cleared, it has been submerged, as they say. What I find sad about this relationship is that there is no place for society's need for this road because a few people think primarily about something else and stop these projects. It might be mentioned in many other parts of the country, but this came to my mind now. Although nature should enjoy the doubt of everything we do about it, it will not go on when these factors come into play. The thought of environmental protection of transport back then, when these matters began to be handled, was completely different. At that time, communities were being taken care of. But today society is on the decline. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to encourage us to consider both of these at the same time, environmental protection and community protection when we're designing roads and setting roads.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u126	V.E.G. President. When I finished earlier tonight, I was discussing flying and how all of this would have to go hand in hand. What I wanted to think about now is about the transportation plan and the destination that we know to matter. It's important that we make sure that there's a equal opportunity anywhere in the country. I'm here giving the review of a travel agency that says that by means of a new transport program, the president's permission, the guards will be looking to the destination plans that have been provided for each area in cooperation with the market rooms in the country where project management will be planned in their territory to be done. This is exactly what I think is of utmost importance when discussing what is needed every time in a place and what is best. When I mentioned the flight earlier tonight, you'd be thinking about opening more portals into the country, and it's probably hanging by how we can spread tourists around the country. But it's not just that. Of course, the airports around the country have a security role. It has to be delighted that now there are plans for the long-term strategy to install so-called EGNOOS satellite correction tools. Such guidance tools have arrived at Húsavík Airport but not yet in Akureyri. There is also something else that can be considered to be significant, and there is a security role, not only in the air but also on the roads of the country. It is called winter service, which has been the most critical of all. It's, for example. a way that we have fought very hard in the Northeast standard, construction of Stifos Road, and this is not merely to get more tourists into the area but to open up more ways because accidents do not lead them. Not only will they be on fine roads but they will especially be during wintertime when it is often difficult to go around and beyond repair. It is also important that the type of road that measures this risk go into cooperation with this same national body of things that I mentioned at the outset. When we discuss this, we are even talking about a bus in the country, which also needs to be able to drive safely so that people are moved to take the bus. I cut it down in a subheading from the SSME, which says that the bus that drives the highway towards Ólausfjörgur and Siglustur, passed the leftover to the Sólsa, where there's a ferryer, does not drive down the leftover. I do not remember seeing a waiting station or some kind of shelter for people. Once again: Hopefully, people with their fingers on their pulse will listen to what the locals say every time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u127	Mr. President. I speak on behalf of the 2nd memory of the environment and transport committee. We gave you a special party, huh? paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason and I, and I gave our opinion on Monday night and follow it below in more speeches. We could not think of the greater part for any reason, preferably because we thought they were vague and inexplicable and that their finances were completely uncertain. And also because in the transport program and the opinion of the greater part, it is recommended to participate in the much - covered transport contract of the capital, which we are closely linked to, i.e. that they will be built up for courses and misdirected corners, which are already an urgent need to enter and break through with them the covenant of the construction that has taken place here. We do not agree with part of the covenant, i.e. the section facing the so-called city line. We haven't been able to settle for being an unpublished check for projects in the community line that city officials call a red carpet for buses. We have not been able to attend the majority of them for that reason and because of road expenses and so on. Our comments focus on requiring government costs that other road users who prefer to travel on automobiles will be reduced in agreement as soon as road expenses are taken up, and that this will not be an additional taxation on road users and will cause increased financial expenditures. We are also concerned about the mass product of collecting, as I explained in the second speech. I'll find out later. Mr. President. I can say anything. paritaprevir Sigríður On. Andersen, who discussed the transport plan and the opinion of the greater part. She missed that in view of the greater part, there were no cups of the impact of a poor state funds during the next few months because of a difficult job situation and foreknowing that money would be less limited than often during the months and years. In many ways I agree. Of course, we cannot expect to be an inexhaustible fund, and at some point we have the money to play. However, in view of the importance of maintaining a job and construction level, especially in economic projects, long-term human transport reforms, and being economically and based on local viewpoints, we still feel that in the lesser part, we still have to provide additional funds for transport, as well as the greater issues. We agree with that. But, of course, there is a time when a person is intertwined because of the effects of the current job situation. Mr. President. I'd like to specifically mention, and agree, word or word. A senator for construction like a city line during this recession period when there is a need to contribute money into the country's economic lives. It should, rather, be given economic contributions, as can be found in many areas in the capital area, but not in an unexploited idea, some kind of dream, cloud cities, about the red carpets of the bus, when the public transport projects and funding have increased in recent years to increase their use. This experiment has failed. Mr. President. I feel that going out on this project at this time is incomprehensible, and I don't support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u128	Mr. President. I was the last to discuss public transportation in foreign cities, referring to the city of Alas, a city of similar size to that of the population of Reykjavík. So they wondered a few years ago, and they wondered for a few years, to set up a easy - to - read system to improve public transportation, but they decided to cancel because they said: " This is just too expensive, we can't afford it, and this won't give back what we're looking for. In Alaburg, there are probably two university areas, and even though it is out, Álaburgs are right now, these are wise men, building third hospital in Álborg, and it's not built in downtown. It's based in the campus, but Danir doesn't start building the hospital, they start building the road to the hospital. Patients should not come there with a city line, either sick or in an emergency range. In Ala City, there's a fast bus system. The rate is very good, but there's some land cover because they have to head north to Limafjörður, north of Sunby, to the airport there, and they have to take the bus to the north to Frederikshavn and north of Skagen, and to the other side of the Aarhus. So it's a very broad, but it's still got a simple, three-, four-way system, and it's set, so you don't usually have to wait for a bus for more than three to five minutes, so it's the frequency there. It's a little different here at home. So I live outside my window is a bus station, where a bus arrives four times a hour at rush hour but twice an hour outside of rush hour, i.e. every half hour. The bus is usually almost empty or has only a few passengers. Now, it seems that while you don't often go into town to get out of bed, if you want to go into town and drive down to the best luxury town in the world, you walk out at a bus stop just outside the house, and you just take a bus down to the centre of Reykjavík, and there are often only two people in the bus. You drive there in a 40-foot ore, yellow, 20 tons, 600 horsepower for two people. That's good work, isn't it, Mr. President? Mr. President. Maybe this is what needs to be done now, only fix the frequency, the easy and simple system that is going on in Reykjavík before we take 50 billion on the project, actually from the state's fund, because the Independence Party is so generous that nobody knows what to do and is ready to take 50 billion and put them on an open window and see where they're going because nobody knows what to do. Now, another show of decorations has been set up, from me, in the hall. Perhaps it would be wise to go out and beat the glory in front of their eyes, perhaps they've taken the railroads that were on the signs before the last election, which gave rise to railroads. Now they may have been taken back and put up something more sellable today. But all of this is based on, Mr. President, bluffing. Some people can be deceived for some time, but they can't be fooled all the time, they were once told. This is true because this matter in itself has not been introduced, not a few, only to have received some glossy paper and so - called stage photos in which the sun shines in a pagan and bold way for trains. It's not an introduction in this grand case, Mr. President. There must be much more to be done, and maybe there is now, in this discussion, to be bold as in 2nd. Which we had last spring. There was information in the case that had not been seen before, and it may be this way, Mr. President, that if we get more time to review this matter, there will be many things that have not been revealed before. I'm done with my time. I have to ask Mr. President to put me back on the rosary because I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u129	Mr. President. As I mentioned earlier, having a talk is a little difficult when it is only five minutes and a lot to go over. I have, for example. as soon as it is considered on planned prenuptures. I will review, as I have promised, the committee books, and especially the extensive improvements made in the case under the leadership of the committee. I will discuss the road system in the capital area and in the country. And I haven't talked about ports. So I'm not going to finish my tour in this speech. But I had come to the section on public transportation and started to cover the city line and the definition of that phenomenon. I spoke out of plans described in a new document from the city's workshop for the first stage of that assignment. In this document, it shows that the purpose of this project is not least to attack a consumer control program, even to force people, mixed with incentives, to change their habits, or as it is said here, to change travel habits within the city. And, of course, there is some news that the Independence Party has become the focus of consumer control, but this may not be surprising, considering many things we have seen happening in recent times. I'm not talking about now that the outfit is getting used to funding the U.S. election government in Reykjavík. But in this document, chapter 2, which is promised what is the city line? says, with permission of the president: The Borg line is the basis for the development of rural development within the central and line, and for the development of a new country without breaking beyond defined growth boundaries. In other words, this is not only a matter of consumer management in the process of transportation but it is certain that it is a fundamental, important point, in the conglomeration policy, a structure that can, of course, be relevant in some cases, but has been carefully implemented in a very spectacular and very damaging way here in Reykjavík. But now this is to hold hands, this crazy convergence and this crazy city line. The city line is used as evidence that the structure needs to continue and be condensed as evidence that the city line has to come. This is how the system works, Mr. President. So if this goes through here, this endless cycle that doesn't provide the end has been created. We have no idea how and when these things will all be over. This is for at least At 15 years of age, people can imagine whether they'll be there after 15 years, saying, "It's been so much already done, building so much up that now we can't stop. ' Now this investment needs to be added. Not to mention the cost of operating, but for some reason it seems completely forgotten in the documents that are proposed for our transport program here. Again, though, the nature of the city line and the chapter What is the city line? It shows that buses on this line are going to get traffic lights first. Traffic lights in Reykjavík have been discussed for some time without any apparent improvement in light control. However, wise men have pointed out that by fixing light control, traffic jams in the city could be greatly reduced. So here we are to pick up this new line, which takes priority on traffic lights. And what does that mean, Mr. President? This means that light control will otherwise move completely because as the city line approaches, red comes on all the others to let the city line through. This will, in effect, be as if the princes of foreign countries were traveling through the city constantly every day and were regularly stopping another round. So how are you going to save the light control when... Mr. President. Could it be that time has gone by? I haven't even finished describing the nature of the city line yet. I'll have to pray to the highest. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u130	Mr. President. I just want to move on, as my last talk has been turned away because, as we have seen, time is really tough. I was here discussing environmental assessments of road events and inconsistencies in decision-making for a comparable project. I mentioned earlier in my talk to Kjalvet on the one hand, a very thorough project, and the Third Way, on the other. While the environment needs to be evaluated, the Road of Tingval, which is within the park, has to be placed on sensitive areas and has special protection by law, there is no need for environmental assessments. It is an example of this inconsistency that is completely disturbing. Environmental evaluations are certainly important in some projects, but in the case of this, important projects are being delayed and this results in the loss of confidence in this system when it is observed that there is an obvious discrepancy. The development of this has been concluded by the development of the development of environmental and transport committees of the European Parliament and specifically notes that there is no need to reimburse the area, to repair road repairs laid down decades ago, to become a hostage of this kind. I have to agree with that. Let's keep in mind that as with Kjal Road, there's a road for it. There is not yet a new path. In certain cases, you may be able to understand that it is normal to have a environmental assessment already to cross a barren country where there has never been a road before in this case, such as Kjal Road, has been a road there for decades. There is another example. The Agency decided that the development of Western roads in 2+1 way should be used for environmental assessment, and it is also not a new route; it is a recovery of available roads, i.e. 2+1, along with side roads, ringing, walking, cycle, and riding trails. The land that is disturbed by that project has already been affected, and there we see that inconsistencies are actually being delayed and important measures, which are to be taken into account. Security. As we know, western roads are dangerous roads. If people take full advantage of these charges, then important projects can be delayed very much and that seems unusual to me, Mr. President. During the double-diving of the Slejanes Way of Hashassun, from the Lonakoti of Sakashun to the Kryrsavor of Hafnarfjordur, a environmental assessment needs to be performed, and there it is not possible to start. The government's special investment campaign is about to finally finish that road, and I, of course, welcome a double Rhines Way. It cannot be started until two years because environmental evaluations need to be performed and design is also being performed. But if some people decide to take advantage of the charges about that side of the road, and realize that it is beside the road that has already been laid, then the matter can be delayed further. It is totally unacceptable, when it is so important to improve safety in this way, that people will be able to delay to such an important purpose in their territory, and you would think that the environment would be at least in the light of it. I think we need to review these issues when it comes to environmental assessment because I think we're in a situation where we're going. [[The president calls.]] It only proves this inconsistencies in comparable activities when it comes to determining that road forces should be evaluated for environmental impact. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u131	V.E.G. President. I would like to establish only a small portion of the section on Aircraft, which is part of a transport program. Committeeliance 2. m.a. Like the private car, we discussed the airport in Reykjavík, which the mayor seems to have a special dislike for. Somehow, it does not seem that the private car should be vacated from the city. The mayor wants to get rid of the plane as well. It must be interesting for neighboring communities to wonder if they can accept more businesses and services from the capital, which the city does not want to operate in its territory. In fact, I think there is a very good porting point in Hafnarfjörður and building in Kopavogi. It may be possible to care for those workers elsewhere around the capital city, as well as to rid themselves of the harbor or port service. The procedure that is made to the airport in Reykjavík is of concern to the city council. It should be clear that the airport is not going and will not leave until, first of all, if you find a similar option, have already weighed and evaluated it, built up and started. But it's not in the obvious future, I would think. Many scrawled when the city of Reykjavík learned of its plans to land a road or to change the organization around the airport. According to the city's plans, one of our important associates was to be cut off by transportation, the airline Ernie, and passed right through its facilities. Fortunately, it was stopped for now, but this greater part is not entirely reliable to stop trying to get the airport away. In this regard, it can be noted that when it comes to stopping the car ride in the capital, humans seem to have no choice. Of course, this would include the eternal problem with the Lader Road. It seems that the politicians intend to do what they want to do regardless of whether it affects their job and their business. And there are some cases of an established business that left Laura's 25 - year - old home Bible study. Another lower part states in the Committee that it is inexplicable to change the shared structure without adequate study of the effect of the structure on flight security. Then, of course, I refer to the projects planned for in the Cutthroat Guard. I think this is very important, or that these words are carefully listened to and guaranteed by any means possible, that the city cannot go higher against the airport. Otherwise, I think it's important for the council to take some very drastic measures to prevent this action that the airport will succeed. This is also a reference, and it is actually encouraged that transport and local government ministers operate in the field of flight and in the case of a walking agency. Then there is the security monitoring of transport workers and again because of the planned development of the cutback. All of this is important because we're going to witness a little bit that it's a cover-up at Reykjavíkurburg when it comes to the airport. It seems to try to use this so - called sauna rhythm, secretly, though, by taking out pieces and pieces, creating an organization that should not be on the table at all and trying to get the cases under the table all the way through the system. Surely, then, we must pay attention to the use of these devices. It must also be discerned what a huge investment it is going to be in the way of building an airport for international flights in another location. In the event of the change in airports, it will cost tens of hundreds of billions of dollars at the moment, and no one will have to think that Reykjavík is planning to pay for the cost of driving away the airport. At the same time, it is actually a check that the government fund should have opened to this city line. A respectable president. When we look at these transport issues, there is much to consider. My speech is over and I wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u132	Mr. President. My first talk was about an article after a traffic engineer. Because of this short talk period, which is only five minutes in this round, I did not have time to get as thoroughly into it as I would like to. But I was there to get the core of this article, and if there is a goal of making a special effort in public transport, the author of the article, Þórarinn, a traffic Hjaltason, points out on a route that he feels is at least a few billion, as he puts it. Only a few billion. And thus, Mr. President - who is not a stranger to government matters - may be spared tens of billions and not be controlled by the services of the bus. Is it not perturbing, if it is possible, to judge foreign - education experts, to achieve an important goal in transportation - to promote public transport and allow people to be inexpensively able to get between parts of the city - for several billion instead of spending tens of billions of dollars? The government intends to spend 50 billion on a project that is not even properly defined. There are some number of cost schedules floating around, and they were one in 70 billion, and the next year they had increased to another dozen percent, up to 80 billion. What's rewarding for such a bag? What is their goal? How can Iceland's government fund become a party to such projects through financing? This is very peculiar. Some people claim that we are trying to hinder this city line, but the fact is that we in the middle of the group are a follower of public transportation. But it is natural that anything is costly to do so. If it is possible to judge experts, to achieve normal goals in this matter by spending a few billion instead of tens of billions of dollars, we certainly are in favor. By the way, where's the community line information? Where are their data on costs, costs cutouts, risk factors that could determine whether there would be a difference in cost estimates? Where's the benefit analysis? Mr. President. In the early stages of this hall, it has been observed that there is no master plan for a city line when it is fully completed and should be a business worker. Neither is the cost to which one is to be paid. I'm going to let you know that it's very ambiguous and vague and unsatisfactory. The plans here on the part of the government, to finance these campaigns in the greater part of the mayors, and especially the Union, are very peculiar to say the least. I think the main thing in this matter is to define goals and to seek the most practical and inexpensive solutions in order to achieve them targets. If they can be caught with a few billion instead of tens of billions, that must be the right way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u133	Mr. President. I'm anxious to get back in speech, and I find it an amazing long time between conversations. I'm gonna use the next five minutes to review one subject. Now that I've gathered these things, I'm going to go over the high-priority ideas in short terms. I don't think that a few people realize where government policy-making ideas are today. There has been a long period of hair tax, and people may not have noticed that we now have to pay not just one, not two, but three judicial hearings that contain various methods of perpendition. Perhaps many people have been overlooked, so I intend to speak briefly over these three matters of Congress and how they overlap. This is one of the factors that caused me to have a minority view of transportation plans, to follow no more of the transport committee, and to give a minority count. One of the reasons is that I don't feel that there's a clear and inadequate plan, and I'm going to argue here, in these three cases and how they are submitted to the council. These are all very different kinds of languages. Apparently, they are not in any particular relationship with one another, which, of course, is a major defect in them. I believe it is right, Mr. President, to draw special attention to the fact that there are three cases in this room that deal with the charges and assume them but are all different, all of which come to the matter in different ways. Mr. President. First of all, there is an idea of land reimbursement in terms of a greater part of the environment and transport committee being discussed right now. On page 18. 11 According to that opinion, by permission of the President: ▪ The Internet welcomes this future view of the analysis of aquifers. The Commission also supports the vision of direct contributions from transport planning and a geosystem plan depend on part of the implementation costs of landways, as well as the payment of traffic funds for operating and maintenance of the tunnel. It is not time to take a decision on further implementation of this funding method, as the result is dependent on the overall analysis. Hence, it is assumed that a tunnel will be made in it. Second, there is an idea that will be paid to the capital area in a so - called capital contract called quick and traffic charges, and we will see it in the bill for permission to establish an official transport build-up community. I read from three. the bill on the role and activities of this Ohf. Company, listed in the joints a, b, c and d, and in the E team, is allowed by the President: To collect quick and traffic charges in the capital area, it will be determined by the law to lay on such charges, and to build up the wood of such collections. This is part of the privates who could handle this project, and this partner, to charge this fee in the capital area. Third of all, there are indiscriminate ideas of remuneration in the transport and rural administration bill on the cross-cutting cooperation projects. It specifically mentions six specific tasks that could be carried out by private agents, where there is an idea that they could, in part, be funded by payment on roads, bridges, or tunnels covered in the bill. In the 3rd. That bill says, by permission of the President: ▪ Part - or total of this cooperation work is being financed by collection through the monuments involved in the cooperative work. In total or in part, tax costs can cover construction costs, maintenance, business, development...• This is where the road structure is authorized to hide privates with a contract to take this fee. Mr. President. I'm calling attention to the fact that we've got three cases, three different kinds of cases, one council proposal and two bills, all of which are expected to be paid in different ways. I don't think it's comforting to put it this way instead of finding support in one of the world-wide bill that would take on the questions that need to be answered in this relationship. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u134	V.E.G. President. This was shown in a talk earlier tonight that the use of public transportation would have to be about 40%, so they paid off, or served. If I noticed correctly, the situation is now about 8% absolute. Yet, huge projects that are going to cost a lot of money are to be done. What is also remarkable is that organizations are moving out of the city center. For example, in 2017, I would like to mention that the Foreign Institute of Iceland carried out his work. In 2017, too, the CDC moved. Insurance agencies moved their operations away from 2018. It also did so, and we know that the Oceanographic Institute has just moved to Hafnarfjörður. And I understand that the police in the capital area are looking for a new home, and as mentioned earlier tonight, there is not necessarily a home in the capital. Not to be overlooked is the fact that toll managers and tax managers have been united, and they are also looking for housing. In fact, it might be wise to take advantage of this opportunity to distribute the activities of these institutions around the country or at least examine another location with distant work in mind, as we learned so well that it is possible to do in Covid. But all these institutions have moved from the center except for the Landspians. A land hospital seems to be in place on Ring Road, and it may solve the problem if there is no organization left but a Lands Hospital. This may as well be good, because there are absolutely no funds to live up to all that is going to happen with public transportation, and especially with what we call a city line. I just want to go back in the winter that hit us with all its weight. That was before Covid's time, now you aim something at it. But the storm that swept through the land set things straight for many. I remember being here at the council, and I was always waiting for this storm, but then I got to drive home in what was next calm because the storm never came here. I thought we could get away, but that's because we didn't get the news from where the weather went so hard and left behind a terrible trail. In most places, we read news, and as the days passed, we saw reports of the amazing accomplishments of everyone we must not forget. And that's exactly what I think this is the point where we have to take very well into account, that by putting all the money on some slot that services 8% of the people in the capital area, we need something else to sit on. I am not entirely convinced that the people of the land will accept it, especially if they recall it for a few months back to what was going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u135	Mr. President. I talked about only a different approach to public transportation here and in Alaborg, Denmark, where a city of similar size than Reykjavík, with such a similar country, thought about going to a light - reading system, but canceled expenses. There is also nothing like what has been published here, as well as what has been called a city line. The most closely similar chariots described here are carriages that you have seen in cities such as Copenhagen, Paris, and even Berlin, and many more people than Reykjavík. Little by little, the way they plan to build this so - called city line comes up. This is of great interest, and it is on page 18. 72 of the long-term program published are images of the city's state line, i.e. of phase two that goes south to Hafnarfjordur, or something like that, and up to Mosfellstown, however. Since there is no overlap, it does not appear to be a center of concern according to what is presented here. But there is also a new feature. We know that in order to finance the contribution of the urban government, the main jewel of the capital is to be sold in a construction land, the only land left to be sold to the ten - month financial minister, and to all, except the natural person who was paid for it. It was financiers who purchased in Reykjavík, but Garden Town bought Vifils, with the proposal, Mr. President, that the town would kindly sell the state back a possible property to a hospital in case it ever became a center later in the process. In other words, this was to be sold away, and then it was to be purchased back. I can see it here on page 18. 72 to one stage of the city is to be directed through the Köldnaland, which is to be built up at the same time. Clearly, she too is to pass through the Bolika Parkland, a prime construction site in Mosfellsville. If it takes as much space as it looks in pictures, you wonder that there's new roads there, they're not supposed to be used. It is supposed to be a new course, but the other is said to be a red carpet along with what we are doing today, where this so - called city line should pass through. I have to say, Mr. President, it's getting very confusing what people intend to do. It doesn't seem to matter who's talking about it. Being an old Kopavogians then I must say that I was somewhat shocked when I saw, on this picture on page. 72, it is assumed that some of the smell of the city line will travel through the area of the University of Reykjavík over the bridge that was once to be a bridge for walking and riding. Now it's supposed to be for a walking, bicycle, and city line. The most luxury, Mr. President, is to be there walking or riding a bicycle and get the sauce from those 600 horsepowers straight into the face. But that's not enough because, as pictures of this phenomenon now appear, these may be trite carts, very large, they are to drive a street in Kopavogi, a cityholt Way, a 60 - year - old neighborhood of living quarters, an apartment area. That's where these monsters are supposed to go, and they're baby schools on both sides of the track. I must ask, Mr President, aren't men of themselves? I have to go on if I get back to the word I'm asking for. I can't take these five minutes to talk about it right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u136	V.E.G. President. I'd like to cut down on a little something earlier in the winter from the West Country Association. It also says, with permission of the highest power. President: ▪ On the other hand, the organization of rural society in Western lands is disappointed that only 1,070 million are estimated to be on the road to the West in the next five years or much lower than in any other part of the country. Thus, rural society in Western lands cannot be enjoyed. So the organization makes the following comments on the transport program and asks for changes in the schedule. Go on says: ▪ Federal society in Western lands strongly stresses the hurry of construction on the Forest Road. The design will be completed during the first period of transport and that the first period of transportation can also be started, but not during the second period, as planned. And go on: In the western part of the United States, it is unacceptable to stop construction on the Uxabal Road for five years and delay the completion of the work until 2029. It is emphasized, therefore, that the design of the adjustment in the chapter from the Pioneer Service that the Kardaldeaf will be completed as soon as possible and that the construction of the road will begin no later than 2023. And later: In the West, some 14% of the country's roads are affected, with about 60% of roads without stretch marks. Three rural areas in a Western country are among the ten rural communities on a national scale, where most roads are not bound in length, but they are Slaerdal Stripes, Valley, and City. Less than 10% of the country's road system is in these three rural areas. The rural areas of urban areas and the Dala settlement are large rural communities that have united a number of rural communities, 30 years ago 20 of which were in the area of which these two rural communities are today. It is very important that, when communities join, they receive support to build an focal point of work and service. Good transport is a key factor in developing such areas and especially important to consider when working together. And only forward: ▪ In our review, we have rejoiced to work on a double western highway, starting with projects on Kjalarnesi. During the second period of transport, it is assumed that the road from the Hagland tunnel in the city will be doubled (2+1). Therefore, the European Union of Western Europe stresses that sufficient funding will be provided in 2020,2024 for the preparation and design of Western soil roads from the City's Hafjörður tunnel so that it can be started immediately in 2025,276. In other words, it is not asking too much in the big context but only the minimal maintenance or just that way. It says: It has to be said that the state of the West has deteriorated over the past 10 years, and the population with the road system has increased greatly, including the increase in dissatisfaction. reports in the 2016 survey of RSV. Since 2008 little has been done, and Westerners experience that the national part of the world is slaving. As a result, many looked forward to a new transport program that would offer suggestions for significant improvements. For years, Westerners have struggled to double the western road to Kililarnes, so they are happy that they will finally begin. It is very difficult, however, to expect that in the next five years, only over a billion people in the Westland will be carried out, with no country living on lower budgets. So many were words.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u137	Mr. President. By the time I was gone, I was discussing the nature of the city line, but it's been pretty confused, at least is no different from hearing counsellors. However, the city seems to have everything clear for its own time, and it has published a few reports that provide insight into the mind of the mayor of this city line. At the end of the final talk, I explained how plans for light lines to come first will confuse the entire photon system of the capital area. The importance of improving the light control system has long been discussed, as this alone would greatly improve traffic. But when the city line, no matter when it comes to light, gets first, and puts red on all other traffics, it tells itself that all ideas of light control go courts. But this could possibly be the case. to the value of the city line, in the opinion of its most important people, some of them, and many of them, fear to explain that one of the advantages of it is to squeeze into another traffic system, pushing to win and to use public transportation rather than using the family car, and the city line will narrow down the traffic. In many of the areas where the pressures are already the most intense, lanes will be taken under the city line and off the other road. It's all holding hands. They're taking lanes from the car traffic, and the lights are all out. In view of the traffic situation in Reykjavík and the local capital area today, you can imagine what this will be like once this is done. All of this will be paid with the expenses of those who are not making use of the ministry. Of course, city line users will pay something, but it is assumed that investment in this project, and no doubt the business, will come through taxation, reimburse other traffic, and, in fact, sell on state property. In other words, there is to be an even greater strain on traffic, increase the city's traffic knots, and an even greater proportion of those seated on fixed cities for sitting fast, since this planned fee was promised in advance, which was, of course, a valid name but has now been reimbursed. It is hard to see how a currency that has fallen into traffic can be called a speed charge. Yes, on the nature of the city line: The city line is expected to be unregistered by the continuation of neighborhood cars. In other words, twice the system of public transportation is being installed at the same time as the existing system has been in endless trouble, and countless attempts were made to try to fix it. But now it's time to run a double system, and again I remind you that we need all information on how much this double system's business will cost. In other words, smaller buses will be running the neighborhood, gathering people and moving them to the city headquarters. If a person is going to make use of public transportation, if he is living in one of these disappear, he must first go to the bus stop, wait for a neighborhood bus, and when he comes and returns to a city stop stop stop, wait until he goes to the destination or even to a place where he can wait for the next neighborhood to finally make his way. This double system is a recipe for difficulties in business, whether it is economic hardship or organizational.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u138	V.E.G. President. I'm just going to grab a little bit of the Commission's opinion of more parts of the Environment and Transport Committee. It discusses some of the features of this transport covenant, often quoted in these discussions, and gives details that need to be completed, etc. We're talking about everything here, and I'm sure it's all related to what's going on here. However, it is quite ready for the city-line project to take a long time. It can be done better to work at what needs to be done better. What I'm driving at, top dog. The president, by permission of the President, is the sentence that reads in the leading committee list of parts: It is more important that road laws be made clear about government and rural development on urban transport so that the expense shifts under the Treaty are in accordance with the Law. Encourages the committee to review the law in this regard. The fact that the other part puts this sentence in its committee opinion makes me wonder if most of it's not starting backwards. In effect, this shows that road laws are not clear regarding land and rural development in urban areas. The difference between state and rural society is not clear; therefore, the cost change is not clear, for it says that the cost of action that falls under the Law is necessary. Then you wonder: " If all of this is unclear, how can you think of handling the issues under consideration? In fact, if you are vague in the transport contract, which you have pointed out, what the overall cost and responsibility of the individual is in the city, you wonder how to say in the panel that it is all unclear, yet you want to accept it in the other case, or in the transport covenant. I don't think that's very responsible. President. I don't feel very responsible for the greater part of the situation in this way. There's another part of this chapter that I'll be in later. However, the committee specifically recommends a review of the law, i.e. that the costs of division between the state and the community are explained. Let's get started, let's get right whether the state should pay 50% or 30%, or whatever it comes out of this reexamination of the law. That's at least It is confirmed here that it is unclear. There is no question about what is involved in this process. Of course, this is nothing more than an open source. They have opened the contribution box, the State Fund, and recognize it in fact here, on page 24. 17 In the leading section, we're just going to pay, no matter what the cost, no matter what the cost. Also, I'm sure they'll come here and say that there's a lot of warning signs there that the Council is willing and that sort of thing. Is it not true, then, that in view of the fact that the law needs to be revised, it should only be hard on them if they are present? Why don't you just speed up the law this summer, for example, set in motion that they could be ready for the next fall? Then you could go into it on grounds of it, have it black on white as to what it should be in accordance with the new laws that have been reviewed, and the more part suggests. I find it very unusual to approach the situation this way and not very responsible, so that's what I'm saying. I find it special, too, if you look at the rural administrations that are all but the capital controlled by the independents, who have been led by the mayor to this amazing journey, not to sit down and say, "Wait, we have to get this transition clear before we make up the deal and go to finish the project. We need to know what to put on our country funds. It doesn't seem to be a concern for these agents, who are very special.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u139	Mr. President. I'm going to continue to deal with transport in the Blue Forest. I was talking even. The challenge, that it would be launched on that important project, unfortunately, has been delayed because of the demand for environmental impact which is totally in conflict with the comparable project being undertaken, such as the fine Celebrity Way in use. In the autumn, a great deal of transportation is being done, and in this regard it is successful. During the second period of the transport program, funding for the Bishop's circuit in the area of the Geysi and the Moon are expected. The continuation of this schedule is very important. The area has a very low traffic weight and is very large when the tourists were here for the virus epidemic. Hopefully, this will change, and tourists are growing again. This procedure has to do with the development of the state of the Funeral Zone, as we have heard. It has now been declared at peace, and I congratulate the people of the country. I think it's been a long time. It's one of our natural bulbs. These projects are linked to the route to the region. It is urgent that the road structure has funds to get started in the preproduction and assessment of environmental impacts. I want to come to the dirt and keep them. This is true in many parts of the country and in all parts of the country. It is necessary to secure road funds to maintain dirt roads. Many of them spend a year in very heavy traffic, and of course, dirt roads are not as safe as those who are bound to break, so this is a security issue. In the Blue Forest, it must be ensured that you will be bound to a fragment in the Eyster-Tunway, an important route of transportation within the community. In addition, because I'm on the Southland, the Justice Council's department has strongly emphasized that there will be an attack on the tarmac road and there is a need to increase funding for them. Then it's a burnt bridge. A transport program has defined targets for reducing the number of single - site bridges on the ring road as we know it, and there is a very important work that greatly increases traffic security and needs to be handled. It is in progress to the government's investment campaign for the virus epidemic, and it was decided to go on that journey only, and it is good as far as it goes. However, the rural government of the Blue Forest points out that there is a great need to reduce the number of single bridges on road roads, e.g. It is the most extensive bridge of the country, on the Bishop's road, across the Tuunga River, between the multiplicity of tourist attractions, Gold Falls, and Geyssi. Everyone sees that in those places where tourists have attended, there is a great need to do some redoubts, simply because of safety. I also discussed earlier today's talk about the importance of improving road markings, signs, and so on, when it comes to single bridges. Travellers know something, for example. not the custom we have in Iceland, that when it comes to a bridge like this, most of the time, the person that comes first. Since they do not know this tradition, it is very important to inform tourists about exactly how to behave when it comes to bridges. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u140	Mr. President. As we discuss the transport plans and trajectory in the capital area, most of the city's city line, the city authorities, have put first, and the waterways that have been set aside. This means that, in fact, urban projects are at the expense of the Sunway, especially if this is to be used as a source of stress for the programs that result in the loss of the city line and are running at tens of hundreds of billions. It's the last cost you don't know how well it's based on 80 billion. Based on progress experience, this may be expected to be at least That's a good one for a hundred billion. If they are to be kept under stress, contrary to the advice of a traffic engineer whom I have quoted in this discussion, who believes that improvements in public transportation can be achieved by spending up to several billion dollars, a city line is in a very striking way at the expense of the Sunway. Split path is a real project. She serves realistic goals and has fallen for safety. Just like other projects that have not received enough attention here during the discussion, the Grand Way is making much more money so that you can drive out of the Athenians River and west into Hagah Square without having to study. It would be a significant operation that would have fallen to make great traffic around the city, which leads from east to west as man knows and would increase the safety of the city, just as the Daffway did. Mr. President. I have to say that there are aspects of transport discussion where I don't feel that enough discipline and a lack of careful discussion is needed. Why are we talking about a city line without any meaningful suggestions on that matter? Depending on who's expressing themselves on this subject, the people who follow this concept are not closer to you. One day, they tell you they're red carpets for busies. Maybe that's the best description you've ever heard. In other words, a campaign to pay for a bus trip around the city. Another similar example is the discussion of a potential airport in the Washingalike field. What's this going to be for, Mr. President? There are wind and weather that are not suitable for flying. On the one hand, it's natural in a natural field, so I think it's searching for the natural scientist or geologist who would recommend that location when that reason occurs. A third reason is that the lava in this area is beautiful, and it would be very serious environmental damage to plan to take them to the airport. I urge, Mr. President, that the discussion will be much more disciplined and based on practical programmes and analysiss of costs, interest, business and other such factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u141	Mr. President. I'm just going to think about the road system, normal, we're discussing a transport plan here. The road system in this country has endured years of neglect, as it were. It could have been better if traffic had not gone too far beyond what men imagined perhaps 10 to 15 years ago. As the number of tourists increased, road traffic increased tremendously, and this has resulted in a fragmentation. Thus, there is an increase in the weight of a traffic vehicle that transports goods across the country to care for its inhabitants and visitors. I was curious about the road transport vehicle site, i.e. the traffic vehicle has been broken. It says, by permission of the President: By increasing traffic, road erosions have greatly increased, making it more difficult to import goods. Heavy vehicles break the highways far more than a gentle car ride, as heavy traffic gradually breaks down the road layers and eventually reduces their ability to bear. In extreme terms, the influence of weight is thought to have a fourth effect on the degradation of roads. This means that the weight of a 10 ton is 10,000 times greater for the degradation rate than for the 1 ton tox. I also found an old secretary of transportation 15 years ago, at the 135th legislature, in the inquiry of the Ármann's Council of Kr.. The son of Ólafssonar, the then senator, who is now the mayor of Kopavogi, asks for the very broken truck. The request was: ▪ How much more are the roads of the country than the average person's cars, considering that the truck has 80% loading, with and without a wagon, and the truck is 1,800 kg? I think maybe that's a little more, maybe it's some kind of a sledgehammer. The answer, by permission of the president, was as follows: ▪ Boundary parts of the opposite population are roughly shaped and dissociative. The discolouration layer may then be either bound or unbound, i.e. It's a painting. The magnitude of degradation (i.e. perennial) constitutes the following proportion of: One vehicle without a vehicle's vehicle's 80 percent loading could cause a devastating effect similar to the total of 9,000 missions of 1,800 kg human automobiles. One vehicle's passage by a trailer and 80% of its load could lead to a devastating effect similar to 12,000 missions of 1,800 kg human automobiles. The increased degradation of road heavy cars beyond the degradation caused by a lighter car is based on the increase in weight limits on the road to transport. The metabolic effect of heavy vehicles on weight tolerance may vary, including depending on the strength and equipment of the vehicle. Thus, the relative degradation of heavy cars is more likely by weakness than by strong structure. The effects of feathers, tires, and vehicles can also vary from one to the next. The answer given here is based on a simple model of the situation considered typical here on the country. For example, if you look at broken hooks on bound fragments, you may think that this may be about four times the size of each car's tire, but may depend on a variety of factors, such as the weight of nails, the type of wear, etc. Madam President. This raises a lot of questions, e.g. whether there is enough work to limit the traffic of heavy vehicles around the country's roads, whether this gap can be reduced by making these vehicles in any other way to spread the weight, e.g. More shoulders, more tires, bigger tyres, and so on. There's obviously a lot to do, Madam President. I'd also like to name a council proposal. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson set out for the winter of increasing coastal transport by ships that could then lighten the country's roads. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u142	Madam President. As much as it pleases me to see this President in the President's chair, I can't help but miss that she's not with us here on a discussion as the Independence Party's chief expert on public transportation. But it is likely that there will be an opportunity for us to have a word at this point. A senator and a chief. The president of the next few days as we continue our discussion on this matter. I wanted to refresh only what was stated in my last talk, as I was considering the map on page 24. 72 of the long - term schedule, which follows the second development of the transport program, as I told them, is intended to lead to south or southwest, probably from a circuit along the airport to the rest of it, and across a bridge originally designed to transport people and bicycles. After this change, however, this bridge is to move walking and cycle round and city line, and it must be wonderful to ride a bicycle and put on air from the four bodies that are going to pass through it. I was worried, Mrs. President, that according to this map, the city line is supposed to travel about 60 years old street in Kópavogi, a cityholsway, a city street, and a child school on either side, a house that isn't far on the road so that they are on their own on this street. I must say, Madam President, I am deeply troubled and disappointed. I just don't understand why men chose this way, and now I'm talking like the pictures we've seen lately from these city line cars, proving that these are bus replacements bigger than the buses we use today. This is very serious to me, Madam President. There's something else I hadn't quite realized. There's not enough about the government's object, i.e. Part of that part will be paid by selling one of the main pearls in the bank property in the city of Reykjavík, i.e. It's a country that's holding the city line going through the country. In these cases, outside of cityholtways, new highways are to be placed for the city line, and now there is not much here at any time during the dawns of a red drag and a second round in Reykjavík. There's a new country to be broken down through Köldnaland and through Blancaland to the town of Mosfells. President. With members of the Central Party, we have warned against the vagueness of this project. In itself, no one knows what it looks like, and some have acknowledged it as the highest. Secretary of finance, he does not know what a city line is, even though he is prepared to finance it with 50 billion of the state's funds. I must admit, and again I say what I said in the speech here recently, that the discussion has come to mind the second discussion, the drinkers, that we had here last year on a different subject. It happened that this discussion deepened the subject and produced quite a number of new facts, some of which have become reality in the past year. I'm beginning to feel that this discussion is developing just like that, i.e. now that there is a little explanation about what is meant by a so - called city line, you begin to see in the front of why this money area is so vast, if you have to break a new land under these roads for this so - called city line. Unfortunately, my time has only run out once. I have to ask a president to put me on the rosary again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u143	Madam President. I was beginning to review the nature of the city line by a new report from the city Topic Centre. It has a map showing the first stage of these plans, but it is very clear that most of the neighborhoods in Reykjavík, the suburbs, do not relate to the city line in the first stage. During the years it takes to set the first stage of this line, the big neighborhoods, such as Grafar Bay, Aarhus, the Breast, and the central area in Reykjavík will also be unplugged to this line, but at the same time, they will squeeze out of these neighborhoods. Not only are the neighborhoods not connected to the line but they suffer when they go to the family car between parts of the town because they immediately begin to squeeze traffic through the city's transport. One endpoint is expected to be the Altaics Head and the other Hamraburg, Kópavogi, where the line will pass through an apartment area, like the dog. paritaprevir Sæmundsson described earlier. It is assumed that the line would cross the imaginary bridge and then land just south of Reykjavík, probably where they planned to pass through a hangar, and then into the town center, finally to mount a twist and celebrate the Cape of the Athenians. Imagine how the reaction will be if the first stage is complete and in the day all of this proved to be far more expensive and more difficult than men thought and began to squeeze into traffic. From the bulldozer and the Canvas. Yes, it will be said that there has been so much money put into it that it must continue to work better as a unit. We simply have to put more money into it. You can see that the inhabitants can't get out of the Grafar Bay, that they can't get out of the tomb, that they can't get out of the North Pole, from the Breinholt, etc. and that's why they need to be connected to the city line as well. This is how the end result will go on, with the argument that there has been so much putting so much emphasis on the project that it is inevitable to place more capital on the project. And what will the Kingdom say? Well, in view of experience, if there is no change, the government will do just what the mayor's office in Reykjavík expects. This report explains how this should look. It clearly shows how much space goes under this city line. If you start on one of the sidewalks, consider the sidewalks on either side of the street, then the first is a sidewalk, so a tree, so a bicycle track, so the road, one lane for cars, so an island with trees, so that the city line comes, two lanes, one lanes with trees, then one lane for cars the other side, and then more trees and finally the sidewalks across the street. This may go up to a hundred feet [15 m] in total. It will not necessarily be an attractive area, for the passengers of the city line will be placed in the middle, in a kind of worthless land, and then have to get through traffic, cars, and bikes to land on the other side of the sidewalk. This reminds us of a game that was popular in the days of video games called Frogger. But this is the plan. Then there's a question... [[The president calls.]] Madam President. It can't be that we've run out of time one more trip. I must ask the President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u144	V.E.G. President. In this speech, I'm going to read from a review from a country partner in northwestern. I read in my last talk from a review from rural areas in West Germany. Both these reviews have a bearing on the fact that they have a great degree of humility and modesty. It's actually just a request for a minimum maintenance amount of money to drive through the roads with no major setbacks while talking about 50 billion dollars. conducted in the city line. But only to this review. For a period of time, the construction of the Pelurustine Road has been in the process of transportation, but with each new strategy, it has been pushed back into the implementation. It had recently been invited out and is now in charge. The last transport program expected work to start in 2020, but the proposed delay is now being made up for 2022. In this way, inhabitants of the national part of the world cannot enjoy themselves. This road has the most dangerous roads in the country. There has been an increase in the number of heavy transports and tourism traffic. The road is one of the projects that all parts of the country have put in place in a new transport and infrastructure programme. It is disappointing that the measures taken to speed up transport in the country are not being carried out in the northern part of the West but rather that are urgent in the region pushing back into the development program. SSNV government requires implementation on Mount Mortar roads to begin in 2020. And only forward here, by permission of the President: ▪ SSNV's commander stresses that Alexander's airport will be reassigned in the base of airports, and a planned flight will be part of the government's support of national flights. [...]◯ ▪ SSNV's management points out the importance of the airport on the carburetor and the need for maintenance and restoration so that it can play a vital safety role for the inhabitants of the Northern West and road users of all. A common hot tub is rising on a transport schedule slightly, which is well - off. - That's what I call humility, chief. Mr President, a little bit, which is fine. - --we're talking about what we're going to do for the 2020'2024 will allow the total amount of money during the programme period to cover a total of 130 miles. In the north of the West alone, the rural communities put 225 miles in place in the earlier transport and infrastructure programme and realize that these funds are not sufficient for acceptable road improvement. This pot needs a lot of access. Despite some limitations in the current rules, it is decided that the 2020 2020 202020234 programme will put effort on the road to break - up barriers. The SSNV government has over the years suggested this and suggests that by this mechanism the rate of structure can be high. It is also assessed by traffic security experts that in most cases such projects would not threaten security, and it is difficult to see how the roads of the abandoned barrier could be more dangerous than those of residents and tourists today. SSNV management points out that large increases are needed for build-up and maintenance of roadways to achieve an acceptable performance rate. At the same time, she rejoices at the emphasis on more distant fragments, even though they do not meet strict standards according to current rules. It is stated in the schedule to 2020 servant22024 that the translucency should be stratified by the OD and the length of the transferways per area without the boundd wear. And it goes on to be modest: ▪ The SSNV government points out that in the northern part of the Western world, one of the highest malarages in the whole country. At the same time, the country has one of the longest schools leading the country. It is reasonable that clear criteria determine the priorities of the road, but distance and traffic should not be the only factors that are resolved. Road type should also be part of these criteria. Thus, the SSNV government suggests that in addition to the above priority factors, the roads that go by school are defined as priorities. The SSNV government suggests that in addition to long distances within the area and traffic in the definition of priority for limited deserts, roads in which schools are also put first. V.E.G. President. I see my time is up. I wish I could be put on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u145	V.E.G. President. I'm just going to grab on to the committee opinion 1 less, because I feel that some contradictions are in the picture. A senator who is in the process criticized members of the Central Party something in a talk. As a result, I began to look at the committee's opinion. On the other hand, there is a warning against excessive remuneration, but it suggests that the transport agreement must be taken care of, but one of the key elements in it is to collect the so - called speed or traffic charges. I looked for the government site to find this transport contract, and it says in the white language that the established organisation will be able to collect such rapid or traffic costs as the result of the changing government funding. This means that there is a charge for the use of tasks linked to the transport contract. I don't quite get it to work out how my 1st things can be against reimbursement, as it is said here, by permission of President Mrs. President: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. reduces the share of the warning about excessive charge of public road routes within the country of its environment and reminds us of the Norwegian experience in the environment where road costs meet increasing public opposition. And then, in the next paragraph, we say, with permission of the president: The first of my items depends on the importance of the implementation of plans under the transport contract of the capital area. The first minor part says, "Don't charge. " In fact, it says an overemphasis, so we're clear here. As I understand the opinion of the committee, it is against excessive currency in the vicinity of the environment and yet in the transport covenant. I don't think it's working. I think there's a lot of inconsistencies. At least there is no attempt to explain the difference between collecting these speed or traffic costs in the transport contract, i.e. that the company which appears to be to be its source should be authorized to collect these charges, and that the costs of other projects should not be charged in close-to-environment. There is a contradiction that may reflect only the attitude of those who follow this transport contract and then pay in general. Other matters are briefly discussed in the minority view. There's talk of energy changing, and there's an interesting measurement of electrical aircraft. It may well be that some future time between parts of the country will be possible to fly a electrical plane and probably monitor it. But most of this committee party is about to start financing the infrastructure and cooperation. That's the point of this incident, I think. There is a contradiction in the committee's opinion, my knowledge, and it would have been interesting to explain why this is happening in this way. If the person standing here disagrees with the committee's opinion, it would be just that way and it would have been good to be corrected. Later tonight, I may be going back on the transport program and later on the possible ports and also entering the vision of public transport in the country, not just in the capital area. Of course, public transportation is important in many places. But then, hopefully, I'll have time to review the financing a little bit better. To this I said again, I wondered a little bit about the contradiction that is in the Committee Part I, both to warn of remuneration and to encourage her through this so - called society which seems quite clear according to the website of Islands.is that it should be financed, including With quick and traffic charges.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u146	Madam President. All I want to do is cover the roads in the South. Last year, the Southern Company Association reported on the challenges facing the South Englands on transport. It is an interesting report, as well as a number of interesting facts that appear there, and it is done well. The report lists ten priorities that will focus on transport in the southern part of the country in the next few years. The organization says that all of these emphasis are equally important. I'm going to go over them a little because they're going to make a clear picture of what needs to be attacked in the next few years in the South on a firm road stop. First of all, there is safety for road users in the southern part of the country. As residents and tourists, we must feel secure on the highways. Unfortunately, the South and other parts of the country do not exist. It has to be said at the moment, because the weight of traffic has been very high, especially in the South, almost all year before the epidemic, and the number of tourists is going to increase again, and therefore priorities are very important. South roads are often confined, causing accidents, and roads are also poor in many places or even out of hand. This is especially true on the highways of one of the marshlands and the east of the Skaftfell County as well as on many continents in the countryside. This road needs to be improved, strengthened, and improved, as well as natural management and traffic in today's projects. It is not just in the capital area that many people and pedestrians must be expected to do. Then it is important to put rifles in the middle of a security issue, so that people are not going to the wrong side of the road, where there is room for it, and also to set the wall where the roads are steeped and the roads are low. This is especially true in the Eldun and the Page and in the wilderness under the hill country of Eyjah and in the valley of Moriscos. Then we arrived at single bridges in the South Sea, many of which are available. On highway one, there are 21, and I have previously discussed the importance of destroying them. It is a major accident trap, as we know it, and it is not compatible with the traffic weight and the demands we make for national safety. In addition, the activities of the Southern Company are important, and they emphasize the importance of setting out and exiting, and exiting on dangerous places in which traffic and fast traffic meets the road and roadways. This is just a very important factor because there are many military forces in the South, in the fields, and in the Holths, in the United States, and in other locations, and it urges that the full safety is maintained because there is danger when driving on the highway and that it is improved. Besides, law enforcement needs to be promoted. We all know it, and we've talked about it here often, and it's indistinguishable to see law enforcement and intensive traffic control but to slow down traffic speed and speed, which is more often than not a factor in major traffic accidents. In particular, there is a need to strengthen the law of the Central Area in the South, the Viking, the Kurds, and theboxes, to name something, as well as to strengthen the public defence and the work of other respondants. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is indicated by a report by the Santanian Country Association on Roads in the South. [[The president calls.]] I'll go into the details afterwards, Madam President, if you could put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-120.u147	Madam President. As we discuss transport conditions in the capital area, we will not be able to deal with the city line, especially because it is predictable that it will suck in at its own expense. The last cost plan recorded is 80 billion. In another bill, we expect this to be the subject of a government fund that will contribute until 50 billion. Based on budget experience, it is far different from making the shoes that the project may cost at least good for another hundred billion. Contrary to this, a traffic engineer I have allowed me to quote in the discussion earlier tonight. In March 2018, however, Þórarinn Hjaltason writes that the target of a city line could be achieved by protecting the project by several billion instead of a few hundred billion, and it is only to see that it has the same definition of a city line that has now been cast out here in this hall, that it was a red carpet for the street. The problem is, there are other tasks. In particular, there's going to be a waterway for this course. Then there is a little strange discussion around a so - called private car, which in general may be more than right to teach with a family, he is a family vehicle. Then, of course, he's a professional, and I think about people going from house to house for many reasons because of their work. Today, there is a lot of work around the elderly'home service, and many people are traveling around the capital area, and I speak as an example of nurses, physical therapists, and people who are visiting older citizens who are living in their homes. There are also food shipments, cleaning services, and other items. You ask yourself: " Is all these people who leave because of their job to travel in a city line? Is there any reason to call their transportation devices, which, of course, must be a car, some private car, and talk about some so - called private carism? It is very peculiar, and there has been no discussion of the aspect of those who place great emphasis on the city line. Then there are many other factors of the same nature. Another prominent point is that the mayor of Reykjavík seems to have made an effort to make it difficult for him to drive. I've mentioned in this discussion of Hofsvalla Street and Birkimel, which is the Snorra Way, at least in the past. In some places, stand against the advice of police and ambulances, who, of course, need to get a clear route. This quoted article in the nuclei shows that one - sided propaganda and compromise have not been entirely honest and even pointed out in this regard. on the site of the city line. I don't have time to track down the examples outlined in this article. There are some, and I would point it out to those who might be interested in it.
