ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u1	There have been letters from foreign and development co-worker at a request every time to provide written answers to panel requests. 584, search for submarines, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson;sk. 1052, on the influence of foreign countries, on election results, from Hrafn Gunnarsson; on deck. 124, the Ministry's comments on legal opinions and on trinkets. 113, on the commitment of the Icelandic government to properly introduced EU types, the European Court of Justice, both from Ólafur Ísleifsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u2	The president considers that a meeting meeting can last longer today than the Senate dictates if necessary, which in itself does not require a special agreement, in which a work programme has been temporarily decommissioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u3	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers and Health Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u4	President. Again, I wish the highest. The prime minister of the work to help deal with the big issues now facing and waiting. We in the Middle East have resolved to work with the government and to support the development of all the issues that make progress and try to improve them if necessary. In fact, I think this is the attitude of all the groups of government opposition, that they have shown that they are willing to cooperate with the government. Today, the government groups have put together a small list of adjustments to one of the issues discussed here. It turned to investments, and in fact government officials had previously said that what was introduced a few days ago in Harpa was some sort of start point or start of action, a need for more action. In the meantime, I think it's safe to say that more measures are needed immediately. There, at the government stand, we try to add something by adding just a little, nothing very much, for this is primarily an addition to what the government has said. As a result, I ask in view of the fact that we must all want to work together in this situation, and we have tried to do so in the opposition: is the ultimate. The prime minister is ready to allow the members of his body, a member of the greater body, to support these refinements if they are man - made? Very much. Prime Minister at least granting its members permission to support the changes made by a member of the Parliament? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u5	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson for both the inquiry and good communication around all the procedures we have had in the field of the council for the past few weeks. I repeat it as a matter of course. A senator said, it's true that we've had a very good conversation over the last few weeks of this viral epidemic with both the Central Party and the rest of the government groups, and I thank you for that. Not by default. Hv. A senator specifically tore extra allowances for investments from the U.S. government groups to 30 billion dollars, as I have understood. I have considered this conversation to be part of a financial committee. In fact, I've heard that there's a further five billion in the name of the All Committee, i.e. that there have been 5 billion improvements in the budget, but another 30 billion proposals come from various governmental groups. As to this, I'd like to say that we are now at the end of March 2020, and I have emphasized that what we are putting into investments now may be useful this year. That is why the investment package, as it is combined, is designed to form a relatively significant amount of transport, since it is easy to attack very quickly and ready, while other items will take longer to implement. I think the changes the committee's proposals are very good. Hv. A senator asks if I will allow my council, as he puts it, to take a stand on the motion. I think that each senator is only bound by his own convictions, but I have emphasized that suggestions are practical in that they are being made up in this year and that there is a normal balance between the different types of projects in the package. That's our main guide in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u6	President. The government groups have had this same guide, that it is a project that is successful in the year, and that has varied suggestions. They have simply stressed the importance of adding to what comes from government projects that are urgent and that can exert a great impact on employment and our potential for further building us up. It must be that in such circumstances, when much is called upon for cooperation, it is at least opening up the possibility that the government could offer proposals, not just try to give tips on committees, as we have certainly done, but that governments, governments, are ready to consider how to adopt ideas that come from government opposition and that the members of the administration are at least. not a sharp class history simply to make a person reject everything.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u7	Mr. President. In view of the 15 billion proposed by the highest power. Economic and economic ministers have now become around 20 billion I believe that it truly was listened to the suggestion of the lesser part, not just the size of the object. A senator calls out tips. I view further suggestions not necessarily from the greater part, rather than other changes now made by the committee as a cooperative project. On the other hand, I would like to justify what is stated here on proposals to improve health - care systems that are being submitted to the legal committee's proposals, that it also provides a clear statement by the government that there will be a second financial bill this year. There will be an improvement in the health benefits of this virus epidemic. It's completely in place, and it's not predictable, as the situation is now. We all know who we are. The guides in this subject are primarily that we see that money is being used during this year. This is why a billion people are laid on hand - to - hand rather than to - excess expenses. [[The president calls.]] Because of it. A senator asks about the will of the senators. Congress officials are always bound by their convictions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u8	Mr. President. It's true what happened at the highest. The prime minister of the last inquiry, the government's work has been very objectively in committees, and, for example, I think there are improvements in the part-back pathway and conditions for bridge loans for the promotion of the government rather than the initiative of the government, as noted in the reports of a number of ministers. But not everything we say is listened to. A few days ago, the government presented something called the largest economic effort in Iceland. Besides exaggerating, they pale in comparison with neighboring rescue packages, even though the problem here is much greater because of the vast amount of tourism. Of course, the union will support any action aimed at reducing unemployment and increasing the operating capacity of companies while going through this stock. But we need to think about more than a company, we need to take a much more drastic approach to homes in the country, the people themselves. Although it was an excellent tool for the children's improvement, only 1% of the total amount of rescue package is spent on it, and beyond that, there are no special measures to be found for individuals and families, no corrective measures e.g. for housing security or household management. Unemployed individuals are in a particularly difficult situation right now, so it is surprising that there has been no word of a rise in unemployment rates. So I ask the minister: When will we expect further action on the interests of companies and people as well, and will the government contribute to child reform? Will it increase contribution to interest and housing improvements in order to improve the security of the people? And finally, much of the highest. A minister resorts to an increase in basic non-employment?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. Einarsson But I'm not going to get in on a story about who said what first. I have thought of it as a cooperative task in the committees of the council to process the proposals that governments are making at tremendous speed and enter into the council. I repeat what I said before, in my answer to what. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, that I rejoice in the success of committees and that there is no need to be involved. Hv. A senator specifically notes that governments are not effective enough. It has been prior to the beginning that we have made it very clear that they will be reassessed on a very regular basis because there is considerable uncertainty. There are no governments now dealing with this epidemic that can confidently say: We have a final package. It's just not like that in real life. We presented our actions, and they are divided into direct government expenditures, bridge loans to work, and then transfer money to people and companies. I want to reiterate that the way we can call part-time or part-time reform is probably the most important thing for the people of the country right now because of what's going on in company income loss. Our most important challenge is to ensure that people maintain their livelihood by keeping their jobs, by maintaining recruitment relations with companies. The way we act is similar to what our neighbors in the northern part of the world are doing; yet, there are differences, e.g. Danir's particular action is more consistent on the economy of 2.5% of our country's production, which we do not make, even though automatic fluctuations in Iceland are very high, i.e. On the one hand, due to an increase in expenses. Hv. A senator specifically mentions unemployment improvements. Like what? A senator well knows what it says here that they would be promoted in 2018 in cooperation with the labor movement, along with the rise in pay payments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u10	Mr. President. We are not discussing history, and it was an extremely good and urgent operation. But I now ask, because of historical low unemployment improvements in these difficult times, if it is possible to increase them further. Then I also raised a question to the highest. Ministers for child reforms, improvements in growth, and housing that are especially needed today to cope with difficult situations. Of course, our actions toward neighboring countries are somewhat similar, although we are, of course, more mild - tempered in our steps. However, there is a difference between us that we are spending too much time on committees to improve the bills that do not come in well enough simply because we do not go along the way of Dana and the Norwegians to call the government opposition to the table right away and let her do the operation. Of course, saying that when I want us to do business to improve all the action that is being proclaimed, I reiterate the question: Will the actions I asked about be attacked?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u11	Mr. President. When the dust is settled, we can review a comparison of the northern routes to form the power that Norway's prime minister has now given to action that is not heard in Norwegian history. I wondered when this is going to be compared, as I say, when we can begin to look in the rearview mirror, how we're associating with Congress and democratic traditions between different northern countries. I think Iceland will make a good impression on that comparison. Hv. A senator specifically mentions child benefits, housing allowances, and unemployment benefits. To answer, of course, we are about to be able to provide this special child - welfare aid, which I believe is of great importance to meet with the children outside that the current government has, of course, greatly increased child support on the payment of two last budgets. We have also issued a declaration that we want to review overall support to children in Iceland in cooperation with the labour market partners and was now issued with the signing of BSRB agreements to state and rural society. Then, in particular, I would like to mention that we have, of course, strengthened the general housing system and are still working according to our biographer declaration to find ways to support both tenants and to protect their rights and to support young people's housing. [[The president calls.]] We have not yet decided to introduce our actions, but we are working according to these guides.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u12	President. Following is the government's investment campaign because of the economic effects of a pandemic crown virus. The operation is at the height. The prime minister described my questions as the first stage of a bigger project. Ministers are twofold. First, they turn to the treatment pack, which the council will issue below, and second, they will act toward the future. The first reaction to the government's Supreme Court. While the prime minister was investing the largest of all of his capital and concrete, 70% of the government's investment campaign goes to road construction and construction projects. I'm amazed at this priorities. Minister because she's the head of a party calling herself green and the highest. While a minister presents himself as environmentalist, the government led by it goes to concrete 70% while only about 3% of the budget is combined in energy exchange, forestry, land healing, and recovery of wetlands. Why is this so important? Ministers such extremely little emphasis on green solutions? I'd also like to ask a minister who has described himself as a feminist, if a gender concept has been considered for the priorities of investment projects, as well as a top priority. A minister believes that this campaign will turn out to be a professional for women as much as men.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u13	Mr. President. Yeah, I'm an environmentalist and a feminist. You're right next door. A senator, as evidenced by my political actions. I'd like to say that when we introduced our actions, we were guided by some. First, defend people and businesses, as I did well in response to a question of why. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, and that's what we're doing with the larceny. Of course, it is important for both men and women, so that it is said, and what we have been discussing, perhaps not much in this councilroom, but in public discussion, that there is no partiality in business--no, it is not, because it is not important that we do between the paymen of this country, that we all have access to this way, that we are providing real and true survival of people, no matter where they work. Second, I'd like to say that the investment initiative is, of course, shaped by what you can do within this year. There is a second investment of 2,222223, and we will, of course, see only another type of emphasis, since it allows us to look more ahead. The fact is, as I went over in answer to a question of what. paritaprevir Sigmundur's winners, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, of course, that we also need to make sure that the money is spent within the year. For example, if we take research and innovation, it takes some time to apply for such projects, to evaluate them professionally. V.E.G. A minister of education has informed me that she believes that she trusts to use that money in this way and will likely use certain tools that are faster than direct, such as a goal plan based on professional viewpoints that are within the Research Fund. But there we are, in effect, considering how we can let the money work within the year. It is also a means of spending money in energy exchange, so that all of these projects create resistance. Finally, I'd like to say why. A senator asks about sex, that the third guide to our actions is to protect basics. And because of what? A senator is thinking about gender, so whether we look at the medical or educational system, we are, of course, running a state fund in a way that we are going to defend the basics, a huge sensory question, as I know well since the collapse. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u14	President. Thank you very much. Ministers of Answers and hopes that there will be some environmental and feminist project at the next investment initiative. V.E.G. Ministers have expressed themselves in the pursuit of prosperity. I remember that I welcomed the Minister's declaration at the time because in the economy, I speak to quality of life in a much more precise way than we do with economic growth. We recommend happiness, sustainability, education, intelligence, and prosperity of the people of the country instead of focusing on the average growth of a ready economy. That's cool. Minister Jacinda Ardern has dedicated 4% of New Zealand's budgets in a budget of prosperity with the aim of building a sustainable economy with low greenhouse gas emissions. In Canada, the minister of finance is working on the request of the prime minister there to introduce the quality of life to the decision-making and budget of the government. President. As far as I can see, the first category of action by the Icelandic government ignores the prosperity of the economy, although this was an ideal opportunity to promote the most beautiful promises. Minister. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Will it show that it really means building the economy with the next government package of action?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u15	Mr. President. Government action does not take into account prosperity, however. Senator. That we're assuming that you're 20 to 30. Who shall go into stocks to keep them from work, is it not in the spirit of prosperity? Hv. A senator evidently does not think so. She does not feel that it is in the interest of prosperity to spend 203/430 billion in securing people's survival and securing their recruitment relationship with her employer. I think that's an interesting conclusion from this inquiry, that's why. A senator does not consider it a matter of prosperity to maintain a professional level in the country. Clearly, we disagree on that. I also believe that the investment of the government in the medical system over the past few years, with special emphasis on mental health, has now made a difference. I believe that investment really matters for the prosperity of the country. I wonder why. A senator disagrees with me on the fact that our health investments, in securing jobs, in ensuring that people's survival is a spirit of prosperity. I think we need to have a deeper conversation about this because we clearly disagree on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u16	A respectable president. I have come to believe that by mid - January. have seriously stumbled at the single twin sister of the Covid-19 virus. Why am I convinced of this? Because it tickles every box. I've never coughed as much in two weeks as I've ever coughed. I've never had anything like mucus in my lungs. My sense of taste disappeared, my appetite disappeared, I lost three pounds. I do not recommend that dieting, this was pathetic, abdominal pain, bone pain, and the odd thing was that for a long time I was not allowed to laugh without coughing. What I can also confirm in this context is that I know of two family members who got this in December and are still bad three months after this virus came and ticked into all the boxes. I wonder, " Is that an explanation for why this virus is so different in the nation? ' Has anyone developed immunity? Then I started checking it out and just asked people if they had got the flu that we just call the flu. I say for my part that it was nothing else, I've never had this flu in my life, yet I've got the flu. I asked a lot of people and everyone said the same, but the really amazing thing is when you ask them the same people if they were around and/or got the Covid-19 virus, they haven't got it. I'm asking the highest. Health Minister: Has this been investigated? Isn't it a little strange that December and January have a flu in progress that's so completely like Covid-19, tick in every box, and yet they say, "No, it wasn't her?" Then it must have been an identical twin, and I'm just asking, " Has this been investigated, or will this be checked? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Since I am not a medical professional myself or a doctor or any other one, I do not rely on the symptoms. A senator and even less so. But I would like to say that it may be very interesting for Icelandic society, and about it it has actually been discussed, studying social resistance. At some point, it may be particularly interesting to see if people have been exposed to Covid-19 at previous levels and even with very low symptoms but are resistant. This is one of the things we have considered: Might it be reasonable to do? Our actions seem to be making a lot of success. We are already experimenting significantly more than any other state, and Icelandic genetics continue to be tested in the community. We have seen it in these last days, but we have to expect to have more days in it, that the result of Icelandic genetic analysis is that in the general public population, people with little traits are down to half a percent of the latest numbers. Now Icelandic analysis has discussed the possibility of researching public distribution in other parts of the community, possibly across a country that I think might be of great benefit. It has been our delight here in Iceland to accompany the scientific community in taking a stand every step toward what is under there and the decisions of the health system that have been intertwined with these scientific emphasis and factors. That's what I'm talking about. This is an indirect mention by a senator, i.e. reviewing the social resistance status.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u18	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. In this context, I also want to show that the original Chinese tried to cover the spread and latest information I have about when the first transmission was found in mid - November of last year. I know of individuals who were in the city in China and came from China and were here in the country in December. I know of a person who got very ill at the time. I know this can be found by taking a blood test that's probably expensive, but I think it would be really great if the situation had become so strong that a large group of people had become resistant to the virus. You don't take a chance, you don't know, but what I think is the most amazing thing in this is what it's absolutely alike. I haven't found one thing that's different from what I got and the description of this thing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u19	A respectable president. It is not much, however, to add what was previously revealed in my reply. I'm right as soon as we have our statistical team up the model from day to day, we're also looking at these actions, i.e. presence of inhibitor. I think it might be a unique opportunity for Iceland to perform such a procedure, which would be done in a very broad and decisive way, not by home-testing, but by our view of the general social situation, as well as by each person. There may be opportunities for us to take steps when we begin to watch the epidemic that hopefully will happen sooner or later, and it is vital that we be aware of how wise it is to take steps back into life.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u20	President. Like the rest of them. The senators before me, I wish the highest. The prime minister and the government of all the best in the face of a very difficult situation with the fierce, global virus. It is heartwarming to see that much has developed during the council, especially when it comes to health itself, not just within the council, but in the community. It is beautiful to see society squeezed together and standing firmly together, completely listening to the instructions directed to us. However, it has to be said that when it comes to the economic response, this is not the same standard of distribution. Although some adjustments have been achieved in the government's affairs, it was clear in the work of the committees during the past week that there was no desire for any extensive change. All the larger suggestions offered to the lesser part were immediately stopped, many of which were simple in action, such as. to reimburse the enterprise's research and development activities and to increase contributions to innovations, to increase contributions to projects that could already be done, to increase contributions to welfare, and to continue to be counted. When we look at the facts, it is clear that in this country, people are being made up of what they say in comparison with, e.g. The North and Germany. We spend half of our lives there comparing ourselves to Sweden, Denmark, or Germany, despite the fact that this is a great deal of tourism and thus much more economic damage than these countries do. That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Wouldn't it be advisable to work on a real partnership at the council for a greater form of resistance, greater measures? [[The president calls.]] There are people here who are losing their jobs on a scale we've never seen before. These days, up to the month, it's time for action, not later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u21	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson queries and insists on communicating with all governmental groups, including restoration, have been most successful. I have sensed a real interest in achieving a solidarity in dealing with this disaster, both in the field of health and in the economic field. Hv. The senator here will discuss the scope of action. Like I left briefly in another answer to what. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson I believe Iceland will come out well if we look at the list AGS that compares economic activities. Certainly the scope of action in Britain, the United States, and Germany is more than just looking at what these countries, especially the United States, already have on the health system. Then I say, I am very happy with the Icelandic health system and how it has been built up, and I am sure that it will. I agree with a senator. I also remind you of what I pointed at in answer to a question. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson that Danir takes charge, e.g. especially the effect of fluctuating the economy as they present their actions that we do not, so the presentation of these actions is not quite the same. If we just look at the state financial package that G-10 countries have reported, they are usually about 1◯3% of land production in direct expenses or tax reductions. In Iceland, this aspect of the operation is less than 2%. Substitution of taxpaying and loans to enterprises is then generally another 1◯2%. As I said, the United States stands out in the size of a package in terms of both other health systems and automatic fluctuations. If we are in this comparison, and I think it is in itself interesting for the council to have such a reality won, because it is not entirely comparable between countries, what is included and what is not, I believe our package will come out just fine. That is not to say, however, that we need not do more than what we have said. I think we're all aware of this room. The action that is hopefully completed here today is a certain stage, but in present uncertainty, I think we all agree that more is likely to come. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u22	President. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. If we follow this international comparison, it would also be good to remember that 70% of the government's system's operations package is a financial loan and a delay in payment. There are only 30% that you could call a direct injection into the economy, and therefore it is important that more is done. It has been repeated in this hall that it is better to do more than less. I say, now it's time to do more than less because the resistance has to take place right now. We need to get work and injection into the job life before the summer, not show it in the financial or financial programs of the government in the fall. I'm going to go to the top. Prime Minister and his government to take over the right hand of my portion. This hall has a rich will to do what must be done. It doesn't matter where good ideas come from, the only thing that matters is that we limit the economic damage we're about to suffer, that we lower the limit of unemployment, when people lose their means of living together. What we need to look at and focus on together is how we can prevent further damage. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u23	Mr. President. If we discuss outhands, both parts and smaller parts at the Council, we have seen exemplary work on the committees of the council. I've watched that job from the sideline, and I think it was good. To make investments, I like the appetizers they've made. I'll just mention one small example, which is an additional addition to an investment of 100 million. K. in the student's innovation fund, one of the most practical and effective ways to create summer jobs that create knowledge. I know those who run a new creation business and have new students in recent years agree with me. This is an example of a good addition to the council. Of course, the added addition comes from old ideas. I stood by myself to promote this fund in 2009-2010. I repeat, automatic fluctuations are very important here, but I'd like to say, too, because of that. A senator specifically mentions our common goal in ensuring people's employment, that we are aware that in all likelihood, it will have to extend the part-change process. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we need to appreciate, too, how it has proved to be. We are aware that this is one stage today and that more will come to pass. What matters is that each one has been saying in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u24	A respectable president. First, I want to express my joy in the Supreme Court. From the beginning, a minister said that it was important to do a little too much but too little in this situation. It sends an important and positive note to society and has been followed up in all government and Congress jobs, apparently. The cases brought on by the council today are similar. This is not to say that the situation is quick and that further measures are always needed. Hence, during the week they are here at the council, significant changes are made, all for improvement. I'd like to mention one that was directed to the council after the government's release, which is a very positive step and shows a firm solidarity with the public, which is to freeze the salary of the senators and to guess 200 other government employees. This doesn't matter much to state funds, but it shows that everyone here is on the same boat. However, the willingness to cooperate in a considerable way in the community is large, and I would like to ask a minister if he has considered any general procedure other than the freezing of a small group's pay, procedures that are also more demanding, whether an available person can show a solidarity, e.g. by placing special stress on tax revenues and remunerations to the top tax level. This would be a relatively small amount for individuals, let's say 3.5%. Such a amount could be about two billion dollars. in the second half of a year of budget money and several hundred million of pay and could be used directly to strengthen the current public ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u25	A respectable president. Thanks to this government proposal, I also insist that an excellent team effort has been made on all key suggestions, even though it is taken into consideration. The suggestions we will discuss here today include: Whether or not to add extensively to the investment package or to the investment part of this schedule. Here's your deal. We now propose the second year in order to postpone the pay of high office officials who accept pay according to the arrangement that was taken after the decision of a decision. I think it's important. This year's trip has not been considered to increase taxes, neither to finance taxes, nor to arrive at the fourth tax level. I think it would have a negative effect in this situation. The amount of money a person would be trying to pick up and be called in the inquiry is of no importance in the large context of the section. This would be a harmful operation, in my opinion. Much closer is involved in focusing our eyes on where we can encourage and make sure that the companies that are being affected most by the spread of the virus will be equipped to act at the end of the day, i.e. when the pandemic is over. It may be important that we at the council have information from day to day and week to week on what is going on in the country. I think we've just begun to look at the consequences of what we see in a group reviews right now, but over the next few weeks, there will be a much greater gathering in the cable, which may give us reasons for bringing other types of action here. So that will not be out of the question of raising taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u26	Mr. President. No fiasco rate increases at the highest level. Minister. But now, as we look forward to the road that we are dealing with today, we are likely to plan for a financial agenda in the Ministry that is to appear before the council for the summer, and we are expected to have some rough ideas about how the budget or other budgets of the year might appear. Then you must ask: How will the government bridge the gap that will be in the state book if not by finding large banks and increasing income? Will government action shift from the investment campaign we are working with now and to the cutting down of the second year, as is often the risk of a financial decline? Will jobs in a public employment market be viewed as a tool to balance economic lability? [[The president calls.]] Will the government even be tempted to postpone expenses but important improvements, such as. prolongation of maternity?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u27	A respectable president. I believe the government has its previous plans to show that we've been thinking in the long run, that we used the good years to make the best of a more difficult year like what we're going through. By using long - term thoughts every year, you will be able to live in favor of the future and to strengthen the United States economy, both the general market, of which you are valuable, but also of the public part where support is fired, each year, and from year to year. That's why I don't see that we're going to do a lot of cuts. But I don't think we should give up one chance to do more for the money, to show extra efficiency. Part of what we are doing in the investment campaign is just investing in public services, e.g. in digital technology. That'll give you more production.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u28	Mr. President. I recommend the Economic and Business Committee's Committee on billing measures for economic impacts following a pandemic crown. The bill is part of the necessary and massive measures taken by the Icelandic government by the economic crisis that have followed the Covid-19 epidemic. The objective of the procedure, whether in terms of financial or financial matters, is and must protect the interests of the households and support companies. Uncertainty abounds, and the situation is constantly changing. Therefore, Mr. President, it is important that governments are prepared to respond immediately to changing circumstances by making reasonable and targeted measures. The bill comes in addition to the law the Council has already passed because of the epidemic's impact, such as the payment of unemployment benefits against a poor employment rate. In 1st. The bill is authorized to postpone up to three pay days of payment between April 1 and December 1, 2020, and January 15 of the coming year with the possibility of the payment of the debt thus collected up until August 15, 2021. The Commission's review has provided a view on the fact that the conditions for the use of sources for the continuation of pay will not allow enough space and may limit the ability of resources to use enterprises that really need them. In the situations planned for the hearing, especially in the light of extreme uncertainty and lack of leadership, it is normal for the surveillance provider to follow up, i.e. The tax, which has the means to assess situations in different cases, is not confined by the precise definitions. The committee suggests a change of 1 st. the bill aimed at allowing the tax to set aside sufficient space to determine whether the basic use criteria for the remuneration are met in significant problems leading directly or indirectly to the pandemic coral virus are considered to be met in individual cases. Other requirements as outlined at 1 Corinthians 15: 33 - 33 were set out in the first century C.E. .. including the lack of remuneration by public fees due to last year's due due due to pay and management problems are not considered to be present in the sense of the provision in 2020. The Commission takes into account the importance of being aware that because of the nature of the subsidies, companies are under strict conditions, including to pay and buy your own stocks. With law No. 17/2020 approved at General Assembly on March 13. was the pay of half of that standard and the insurance fee on the pay date of March 1. postponed for a month. The remaining portion of payment has been due April 1st. and 14 days later. Clearly, it is important for many of the enterprises which were used in the selection that further postponement of this payment might be made possible. At the same time, it is clear that this portion is not considered to fall within the pay period of April 1, which is permitted to delay according to Article 1 and Article 2. the bill where there is a narrower requirement for procrastination on the basis of them than under the law of No. 17/2002. The Commission has concluded that it is most successful to add articles that stipulate the provisional terms VI in the official payment and the X provisional terms of the insurance fees, however, that instead of April 1, 2020, a pay date will be set on January 1, 2021, and that will be the 1st of the budget on January 15, 2021. The Committee suggests a change in child-replacement regulations for the b-jords. that under the pressures of the government, 2020 should be added to the general child development programme according to the A team 68.g. On one hand, a special replacement will pay for a sum of 42,000. with each child to those paid child support, and, on the other hand, those who are not called pediatrics should be paid on the basis of a reduction in the income of a special child's expense of $30,000. with each child. It will make it clear that special child reforms are not considered taxable and will not lead to a decrease in other income, such as government insurance benefits. In that case, the child's benefits will not be in proportion to the unrewarded fees or provisions. "B" Unit 4. The bill is suggested that those who are paid for this year's export fees be authorized to distribute each payment for two days. Taking into account the above recommendations and having agreed with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Committee suggests that the second due date should be strictly considered, i.e. Day 5 of the second month after the end of each two-month run-in period. By doing so, we will further meet with immigrants because of the payment of export costs, which are toll provided from March 2020 through the year. The date of the transfer fees prior to January and February 15 was March, and the first development will be due to the upcoming period of March and April. So the payday of this period will be June 5th. The change will allow importers to be given 20 days more time to return a valuable tax to customs, i.e. so-called torchrit, due to import and initially due to the time of March and April and then out this year. Along with this change, the Committee suggests a change in the c-join 5. the bill (s) to be allowed to deliver the merit tax due to the period of remuneration due to tax payment, despite the lack of pay-to-dos tax pay paid at that time. As a result of the change, due to the same implementation period, the currency of the cost tax to the toll for import and deposit of the valuable tax in the country will be met. If the tax is higher than the tax so that the tax remuneration is entitled to a remuneration tax, then the tax may be equal to the tax tax paid for import. I realize, Mr. President, this is a bit of a dozen. It sometimes took us members of the committee a little time to figure this out. The Committee also presented the view that, under current circumstances, it would be necessary to meet the job in a more intensive way than the proposed bill when it is due to the paydays of the value tax, which is now April 6th. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that two new preliminary regulations are added to the credit laws. On the one hand, it is suggested that during 2020 the date of the assigned reports should be the same as the due date of the period. The adjustment form is aimed at ensuring that according to the credit report provided before and during the due date and time of the regularly paid will be given the same value date as the due date. In this way, interest rates in credit taxes are not calculated, which will not be paid on due days if there is a holding that could be equal in return. However, it is strongly suggested that in view of the circumstances, the tax should be allowed to eliminate stress due to dissociation of worth tax, as recommended or to have agreed with a minister for the upcoming period of 2020. There was a great debate in the Committee on whether or not these remuneration measures on public expenses would provide SMEs with a large business problem of insufficient safety. Clearly, a land in the economic uncertainty that has followed the spread of the virus will ever take place, and it is necessary that governments show firm will to help. In discussions with the committee, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the tax authorities have a strong desire to use the resources available to meet the companies that need deadlines for the Committee mentioned above. In the context of this, the Commission wants to justify the importance of a minister to direct them to the tax that pressures will not be imposed on the value tax on paydays in April. At the same time, there will be regulations 12. law on the collection of public remunerations for public fees as far as possible for the enterprises which have such support need. It would be preferable that the tax could offer an electronic application for a payment plan in accordance with the rules of the law. The driver's maintenance of a vehicle was encouraged by the Driver's Association on the bill. where there are reimbursed credits due to human work in apartment and vacation living. The Committee suggests that there is good evidence to suggest that the reimbursement of cost tax from car repairs required for the period required to meet the specified criteria and suggest a change in the 5th section. The bill for that. The financial and economic memo to the Committee suggests changes between 12 and 13. The bill, as well as Team 7.32, section 4. The bill for the 2020 budget, to be discussed afterwards. Will the Ministry contribute, not to Article 12. will be required on the authority of the state funds to submit responsibility in relation to a accord with the National Bank on the provision of the bank's payment for loans to facilitate additional financial loans made in the law that the state's funds are permitted to enforce commitments to loan institutions for additional loans and that financial and economic ministers will be permitted to negotiate with the National Bank on the implementation of loan institutions. In addition, the Ministry proposes at 12. will be added to two new paragraphs that insist that a minister ship a committee that supervises the implementation of Kingdom responsibilities. The Court of Information Summits will be unambiguous and obligatory to report to the Minister for the implementation every six months, which the Minister shall submit to the General Assembly. The Committee considers it important that a follow-up committee with additional loans carried out on the condition of the state of the country. In addition, the committee suggests that 1st mg. Section 12. it should be noted that in the agreement between the Minister and the Council Bank on the implementation of the law, the basic criteria for additional loans with the State's responsibilities should be met, including that borrowers do not pay interest or purchase their own stocks as long as Kingdom responsibilities are served. In addition to the changes I've traced, the Committee suggests that there will be some new regulations, such as the addition of temporary laws on the insurance policy of pensions and pension expenditures as a home to the management of a pension fund to set rules on collecting less interest because of pay paid over one day's pay. The source covers a period of pay since the 1st of January. to January 1, 2021. In connection with creditors' agreement on temporary deadlines of corporate loans, it has been emphasized to keep terms as simple as possible, saying in the agreement that the Contestance Commission has agreed to delay interest payments and payments should be made at the head position and that the contract period should be extended by the number of off-payers. The committee expects similar changes in terms of individual loans. The above terms will inevitably follow a large amount of documents that would remain unmistakably signed and be reported by Congress. The committee feels that this can be almost impossible when thousands of people are infected or isolated, as well as bans on meeting and other government arrangements aimed at limiting close communication. The Commission thus feels that changes in terms of terms of terms that are mostly valid electronic signatures, but they also direct them to credit institutions to search for solutions and to guide people who do not have electronic identification. Since documents that have been signed have not been signed electronically are not available, the Committee suggests that in terms of terms of declarations there are provisional regulations that recommend that the addition of such documents be signed, where the requirements for a public agency, a business bank, a savings fund, or a credit agency, should have the same effect as if they were approved by any later pledges. The committee received a tip from a health committee that had to be canceled on 6 mg. provision for temporary XIII on unemployment insurance law to ensure that fish farmers have the same right to unemployment benefits along with a decrease in employment rate and other employees between March 15 and June 1, 2020. The committee makes a suggestion accordingly. In accordance with an announcement made by the Council of Human Rights, which was published on March 27, 2020, the Committee suggests that we may have a law no. 79/209, with a list of remuneration arrangements for specific groups, including Implementation of the reputed representatives is also a provisional principle to increase the pay of those under the United States B.C.E. the section of the law, i.e. General Parliamentaries, Ministers, Ministers of Justice, Attorney General, Marshal, Bank Manager and State Status to come to action on July 1, 2020, will be suspended on January 1, 2021. In view of the situation in the modern economy, the committee believes that this postponement is both normal and reasonable. The committee also suggests that we add social security laws to the provisional regulations for special payment of $20,000. Microenergy and rehabilitation patients should be paid on June 1, 2020. The pay is not considered taxable to employees who earn money, nor should it result in any decrease in other payments. Mr. President. The Commission emphasizes that this bill can never be considered a final factor in the government's defense of the economy. The close and good cooperation between the Generals, the Government, the Federal Committee and the labour market agencies is crucial when economic problems are dealt with. Iceland's late tank has taken a stand in the financial sector. During the past two weeks, the bank has dropped the rate of growth by 1 percent. The bank's main growth is now 1.75% and has never been lower. Thus, there is room for further increases if needed. The binding property of banks at the Federal Bank has been reduced by 40 billion. The pager has declared that he is ready to export more cash into the system if necessary. Then the bank lifted the fluctuation balance of a financial company, which helps the banking system support homes and businesses, making up up to 350 billion opportunities for new loans. The committee emphasizes the need for the banking system to make room for their customers. Intensification, decomposition of the eco-efficiency, lower commitment of cash and decrease of the individual bank tax must be made in the more favorable credit rates of enterprises and households. That decision was made on March 22nd. to begin directly at the post-reliminaries of the state's financial policy and to strengthen the Court's aims to secure households as well as businesses lower financial costs. The General Assembly has already approved part - time bill where government funds pay up to 75% of people's salary. The part-time job route is to protect jobs and ensure that, as much as possible, a recruitment relationship between employees and companies can be maintained. The cost of this event is calculated to be about 22 billion. and I'm sure it's not overrated. At that time, companies were given the option to postpone half of the public pay period in March and April, which suggests that this delay will be extended to January 15th. It is estimated that the volume will be about 11 billion. At the end of specific conditions, companies with the approved bill will also be given the option to postpone up to three pay days of local and insurance fees until the next year to improve their posts. It may be estimated that the local pay of taxes, income tax, response, and insurance fees to non-U.S.A. can study about 100 billion dollars. All over three months. Reconservation of hostilities to the end of 2021, assessment of property savings and increased reimbursement of employment tax is action to ease the balance of the sector and stimulate it. An important part of the government's economic activities is to increase government investments this year by a total of 22.5 billion. Of these, public companies are expected to invest for 4.6 billion. This is an additional factor in the investments already planned, so it can be expected that the public student's investments will be this year approximately 97 billion bucks. In this case, the changes made by the Committee indicate an extension of the pay period of transfer fees concomitantly with the authority to transfer all valuable extra taxes to the tax in the configuration period, although the import-based supplementation tax has not been submitted at that time. The same will be said of a special warrant for the tax to eliminate stress due to miscalculation of the value tax in consultation with a minister in the light of the circumstances in which we live. The State guarantee of loans to companies along with a decrease in bank tax, ablation of the fluctuation bonus, and the lower binding of the funds increases the account of the banking system to loans to companies and households which enables them to deliver and maintain the recruitment relationship of companies to employees. At the same time, companies can be better equipped to resist when uncertainty ends. The Commission reiterates the importance of financial enterprise's being a big part of the business. Mr. President. This bill was not simple. However, I would like to use this opportunity to thank the members of the committee in particular for their cooperation. We didn't always agree on everything, but it was clearly the firm will of everyone on the committee to do something that would make us feel any decent. Some people don't feel that there's enough going around here, and under these things I can handle. But I say it's perfectly clear, and all members of the committee have been aware that this is only the first quarter. I don't know how many parts of the game will be in the end. It is also clear to me that once we see the true situation in companies, we will certainly be on the economic and commercial committees ready to roll up sleeves, start jobs again, and do the work we need to do. That picture will be clearly explained after April 6th. I thank you so much to all members of the committee and, especially, the representatives of the government opposition. Although we did not agree fully in the activities of a committee, they are honest and loyal. Hv. Parliaments of Harðardóttir G. Hardyddótttir, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, and Smári Mccarthy are signing this with material instructions that follow the committee's opinion. Sæland hareland, who is a member of the Committee to Re-Elect, also has a comment that comes with the opinion. The committee again reviews the fact that government action does not end with this bill. However, its agreement with the changes proposed by the committee is a big step in the right direction. The aim is to limit the inevitable damage caused by pandemic crown virus. Clearly, in the coming days and weeks, governments as well as others must carefully monitor the course and continue to look for any less ways to meet present challenges. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes presented to a special Senate document. It's under the heading "Why." Councilmen standing here, Óli Björn Kárason Kálundsson, the Þorsteinn of Wílundsson, Brabbur Níelsson's son, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, with material notice, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Sigmundur, Gunnlaugsson of material advance, Smári Mccarthy, in material advance, and Willum Þór Þórsson. Besides, it's like I previously made a comment from an Inga Sæland, an audience on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u29	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech and for the cooperation of the Committee. In today's tragic situation, and we have not yet seen how all of this will be over, there are people who want to make money, engage in unwholesome business, market mismanagement, and even embezzlement. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he believes that governments have enough equipment to monitor and stop such organizations or whether we need to develop new tools or to strengthen those under government supervision for such unhealthy business practices.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u30	Mr. President. No, I have no reason to believe that we need to come up some new agency to observe. But I think that's right. A senator's concern is that in such a state, some excited people try to take advantage of it. When making a decision for the State to meet an enterprise and help them get over the hard part, there may be some who will take advantage of it. I trust the Skatti very well to follow through on that. Just the same way, there is a danger when it is decided to provide state responsibilities for some of the corporate loans. Therefore, it is so important that we join together and agree that a special surveillance committee will be established with it and the review board should report this to the secretary and minister of the Council to report this procedure to the General Parliament. I think it's very important that we who are in this room are also on the watch. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u31	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. I've noticed that rural society is wondering 5. The bill and how it leads to the rural communities in terms of reimbursement of GPA due to development and maintenance in rural areas. I'm asking why. A member of the council how this becomes part of the rural community, awaiting the evidence that the article is the same as the local community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u32	I'm not quite sure I've come up with a question yet. Senator. The reimbursement of cost tax due to work on apartments or new buildings is first and last to the individual. It has also been shown that this includes partners, such as. Ordinary funds from the labor force helped us to see that it might be wise for them to fall under it. It turns out that they do. On the other hand, we wanted to test the reimbursement tax. I'm in favor of doing so myself. However, it was decided to go another way, that direct funding would be provided by a local cartel. I can totally understand that, but I would have thought it would be a better option for the communities than for the protection of nature in Iceland, it would be a catalyst for the rural communities in the form of reimbursement of values taxation from these projects. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u33	A respectable president. Thank you for this package that's available. That is commendable, and much good things are in him. What's bad is what's missing. Now they've put a package in there for disability and also child support, but what about older citizens? Many older citizens are bad, but I can't see a dollar for them, not a dollar. Why not? Children's benefits would initially be 40,000 for those with less than 11 million a year's pay and 20,000 for the others. Now that's changed. Today, it is 42,000 and 30,000, respectively. It would be good to get an explanation of why, on the other hand, the worst in society, the disability, gets only 20,000. Why don't they get a minimum of 42,000? [[The president calls.]] They're placing 20,000 bucks. June 1st, to disability, it says here, in special compensation, but the child's raise is 42,000. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] If we add this into an absolute context, why, on the other hand, the micromasks don't get 42,000 K, i.e. the maximum?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u34	President wants to ask why. Councilmen to respect the speedy deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u35	Mr. President. I state that many indications came to the Committee from a number of stakeholders, companies and individuals, many of them very good. You just can't do everything for everybody. There's some kind of misunderstanding. A senator by the time he gets to the child's bonus. If the bill had been left standing by the child reformer, we would have made a machine that would have been one of the most unjust things I would've ever seen. There were times when a family with less household income would have received less money than a family with more income. There we were on the committee completely united. We agreed whether or not the income will be added to the child's benefits, but we reached that conclusion. [[The president calls.]] We make these changes, and we raise the numbers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u36	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer, but he didn't answer the question about the older citizens. Why aren't they inside? Why do we have 42,000 bucks? child support, but only 20,000 bucks. to the poor, the worst? Why are we paying the high wages of 30,000 dollars? At the same time that we can pay for microchips only 20,000 bucks. and seniors don't you think it's a crown? Why on earth? Answer it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u37	Right away. A financial and business committee was given this bill for consideration was not expected to be a sign of disability in the way this is suggested. If I'm right, I'm looking at it. Birgir DírðurnarnssonÞórarinsson who serves on a financial committee - a financial committee has taken the initiative to contribute funds that would enable us to install holiday supplies, if I might call it so, special payments for disability. Could they be higher? Yeah, sure, yeah. Senator, at least we're taking this step. [[Up front.]] Can we approach the current steps and suggestions so that these are not the final ones in what we need to do? [[The president calls.]] This is just the first step. This is the first part of the game. My only problem is, I don't know how many of the parts are gonna be, but it's just the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for history. There's a lot of good in this bill, and I'm telling you that we in the Central Group really want to contribute on these topics. I would have liked to have made some changes better, but this is a first step and important, and then we have to reevaluate the situation soon and see if they have the certain results we expect in these matters. What I wanted to do was come in with what I wanted to do. A senator is a decrease in the bank tax. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned that he expected a more favorable option for homes and businesses when the tax dropped. I agree with that, but I'd like to ask you a question. A senator on bank interest. They've been buying their own letters, and I especially mean the bank. Will require any shareholder to return this condition, i.e. Are they using their own money to deal with these tragedies? [[The president calls.]] And now the highest government officials are being freezed off. What about the bank manager's pay? [[The president calls.]] Should they not be reduced when these actions are being carried out and all that can be used?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u39	Mr. President. The decrease in the bank tax rate, which was determined some months ago, is rapid but not due to be carried out until the next year. All I'm going to say about the banks is that now they're going to try the Icelandic banks. The way they drive will be watched. They will be watched as they take part in the defense of Icelandic business life because we are defensive and have to support their customers wholeheartedly. They must show that the Icelandic home and Icelandic company are allowed to enjoy the measures being taken; the swing balance, the lower financial commitments, and, in particular, the lower host growth of the Federal Bank. [[The president calls.]] It is in such a situation that we need, the Icelandic economy, the business, and the home, really a powerful financial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u40	Mr. President. I agree with every word I have. A senator said and supports him in it. The bottom line, though, is that the public in Iceland is burned of their business with banks after the collapse of the bank. Hence, there is great suspicion that they will come to be as well - meaning individuals as business or business. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason mentioned here and asked for it. I'll do it my whole mind too, but I'll mention it, e.g. that when the bank tax was to be dropped earlier this assembly, we came to the Central Party with a motion that would be conditioned in such a way that we would see results in the homes and companies of the country, i.e. to see that they were down payment and interest. No such measures are available. Sure, there's a lot at stake for the banks, I'll bet on it. A senator as far as it is concerned, the companies get through this great difficulty, but I want to to to to swerve my concerns here. [[The president calls.]] The banks are being really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really? A senator rightly mentioned it, and then I would have considered it desirable to look into it, e.g. The banks who have made high money, such as in private banks, would it not be reasonable for them to return it and make use of their own money in this situation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u41	Mr. President. It is worth remembering that all the banks have published that they will not pay interest this year. The pursuit of interest in interest is a government fund over the years, something remarkable. Why don't we just take a look at this, huh? A senator, who has the opportunity to regain the trust lost in the collapse? I've seen how the Icelandic banks responded very quickly now when we were quickly taken by individuals with a shelter, with which they also offered a shelter, and they've been lowering interest to individuals and companies, including them. on apartment loans to companies. They have taken steps in the right direction, but they will test the Icelandic financial system. [[The president calls.]] Now that there has been an improvement in the scope of banks and the ability to support Icelandic and Icelandic companies, they do. I expect you to.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, for his good cooperation, as he arrived in his speech. That's right. Although there have been disagreements and that many of us have not considered these measures to be sufficient, it should be noted that good cooperation was able to adapt to the extent possible. You should be grateful for that. Hv. A senator repeatedly says that he expects banks and businesses, especially the banks, to respond to the call for support from an all - time job. I expect and demand that governments do the same, so I would like to ask: A senator did not need to go further than simply postpone and lend money? Do we not have to take permanent measures to reduce the potential debt of employment when this unprecedented crisis is due? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u43	Mr. President. It's not supposed to be a document here, but I'm going to thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, vice president of the Economic and Business Committee, is very much involved. It matters to me because I wasn't too smart to understand, and then he came to my rescue. Thank you. You're right. A senator brings attention to the matter. Clearly, we need to be ready to do more. The measures we have been taking include pushing only the ball ahead of us, perhaps in order to get space to see the bigger picture and to see more clearly the seriousness of the situation. But it is also quite clear that when we decide to postpone the government's income, postpone the expenses and taxes of an enterprise, part of these revenues will be lost because the companies are going to fail, and thus they will lose their income. [[The president calls.]] We may as well not be hiding it, but we may face such facts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator. We can form a formal documenting alliance here and now. If we were to do so, we would probably fall into our arms. I'm glad to hear it. A senator has an understanding of this. I urge him in his work within the majority of the world to promote these views. I think it's very dangerous with debts, especially when we look to small and medium-sized companies. We must not forget that the Icelandic standard of living is a microscope, a company with employees who count one to ten. A large part of the employee works for companies of this magnitude. Here we are dealing with absolutely unprecedented economic crisis, total operating center in a large part of the economy, and we have to be careful in long term that this company does not come out of this crisis debt because action has solely aimed to postpone payment. [[The president calls.]] I think this is especially what we need to keep in mind when we take longer action.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u45	Mr. President. I think the oatmeal is absolutely correct. Senator. I think we'll have to make up the details of the measures we take over the next few weeks and months that they aim to see that the Icelandic working life, small and medium-sized enterprises are in such a position that the firm can still take the opportunity when the year is over, that we haven't put them in a position where they really are some kind of living corpse because they can't move out of debt anywhere, etc. We need to make sure that our companies come out of this way that they have real opportunities and a real chance to turn their backs on when the opportunity arises. That's where we got what we got. A senator and I believe that everyone, at least to the Economic and Business Committee, a common objective in these areas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u46	Mr. President. The preliminary rules given by the bill we address here are necessary to deal with an enterprise that would otherwise be out of control. We in the United States support these actions, but we are aware that we would have wanted to go further and do more. The measures are temporary, and they are limited, and there is no question that further measures by the government need to be made and that will be immediately taken. The work on the committee was well off, and the head of the committee, why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, is to be commended for the way he led her. The representatives of an economic and business committee were fully working, with a greater part, to add the bill as soon as possible. I had hoped that in such an emergency now, I would be willing to cooperate closely with groups. So it was disappointing when the last record revealed that it was not true among all the rulers. The greatest opposition was to suggestions on the issues of children and women's classes. I was surprised at the inflexible nature of the majority. Before that time, few would have assumed the opposition in a government - controlled section that supports the government under the leadership of the left green. To do good with a business, however, there was no problem. The Commission's proposals for the bill are improving, and the head of the Committee has handled them well. I don't need to do it again here, but I can specifically mention the changes in terms of cost taxes and the possibilities of canceling stress if there is to be a delay in paying and the rules of interest and buying in corporate letters that make good use of government resources. During these difficult times, disability is very important. Many homes, like an enterprise, are affected by economic pressures, and most citizens will experience economic ruin during the period of the epidemic. Governments must face temporary business problems, as well as business. The cost of living and operating by automobiles is a major factor. The tenants will be like those who live in their own homes, with a fixed cost of household management. That's why I'm celebrating the change in the government opposition proposal at the moment. The budget for the increase in housing benefits. Many rural societies have published declarations of compromises by paying real estate bills to companies. In this way, homes are also in trouble. Governments have to make clear a requirement to the bank that they provide support and show by their actions that the actions of the city's Bank and State benefit the people of the land now in a more delicate position. Since lack of trust in financial management has not been since collapse, governments need to apply themselves and clearly indicate that they demand to increase financial status, low interest, and the decline of bank taxes, which have been speeded up to gain better terms and advice from banks, such as loaning loans. President. You need to revise your child's recovery system from the ground up. Child damage criteria have not increased for more than two years, and pay deficits are cruel. From April 1, child benefits begin to be reduced to a salary of 10,000 dollars. below the lowest amount of pay you will be given. Families far below the average of 2019 will not get pedophiles. The average prize of 2019 was about 770,000. The child - reform system that the board does not yet want to change is so that people far below the average will not get pedophiles. With increasing child - welfare benefits, the government should counteract the spread of the economic effects of the epidemic on children's families. The child - reformer that the government offers is a good idea, when families have lost their income quickly in the emergency situation. However, it is quite remarkable that the more important part of the project suggests making a contribution to the income of 2019 when the amount to children is set. I strongly criticize the administrative point for this treatment of child improvement. He is a single - trade operation that is particularly useful to parents who have lost their jobs or a lot of their income because of the epidemic and who are experiencing uncertainty about how to make money in the months ahead. Thus, it is absurd to attach money to the children's benefits to the income of 2019 C.E. More reasonable and reasonable, it would have been to pay the same amount for all children. As a result of the decision of the EEA's Environment Department, the total income of 1,250,000 parents per month during 2019 last year receives 42,000 dollars. with each child but the parents with the 1,251,000K. or more in a month in 2019 alone will receive 30,000 dollars. has a child. It is heartbreaking to see that a larger part of the government led by the left green wants to throw out a large network for the companies in the country, thereby agreeing to the head of the Independence Party that it takes more than a lot less to make sure that no company is left out of the business that has been paid than will that children who have lost their jobs get fewer dollars with each child just to make sure that those who have not lost their income don't get paid no more money. Doing more than less for children's families in the management sector is a problem. The government has not yet met the problems of those who have not been able to go to work because of the lack of play and elementary school function. In the event of that crisis, we need to act immediately. This includes parents who are alone and unable to work at home. This applies to people who engage in caring for their responsibilities and secular work. President. The committee's meetings discussed whether and how to expand the law on all work that worked well in the collapse but mainly as a means of building up activities as men. It is shocking, then, that there is only more traditional male activity to be carried out by the Commission. It is surprising that there is no solidarity to offer suggestions that are involved in more women's groups. Meeting bans take a bad turn at large industry that women do in much of their business, such as hairdressing and cosmetics. In order to instill healthy, more intensive business after the meeting should be completed, they should be included in the arrangement. The economy should also be promoted, e.g. by promoting business in sewing rooms and similar activities in the same way. However, the bill on all the initiatives is discussed in the series on work that is almost exclusively performed by women, household support, and household care. The purpose of this article is to keep homes that need help to keep them safe when their income decreases. Social services do most of the homes needed for such service. So this law focuses on those who do not need social services. It also benefits companies who work in this area and hopefully that most employees can lose their jobs. In its review of this provision, the BSRB says that 13 - year - old experience with such measures has not worked in Sweden. The directive did not improve the position or increase the rights of the staff, but instead it increased private business in the social service at the appropriate expense for those who need the necessary services. The country's development of these issues needs to be monitored when it comes to the adjustment made in the bill. Now that unemployment is going to increase rapidly over the next few weeks, there is a poor situation where unemployment rates are minimal relative to minimum wage. The Union demands that unemployment rates immediately rise, and at that rate, it would normally be the most necessary basis for raising the total number of centenarians to a total of 17,000 dollars. of January 1 and 24,000. of April 1st. The level of unemployment is now much lower than the cost of the lowest wage. In the months to come, students will be facing challenges because they have lost many part - time jobs as they study and obviously become very short in their summer jobs as students. Educators must not be forgotten in this situation, and they need to be resolved quickly and effectively. The problem apart from the health problem is that Iceland's largest industry, tourism, is in total freezing, and the article is actually a global collapse. The government already has to decide how to improve the quality of the business where the work has stopped and no income comes in, and it is predictable that this will continue for a while after the epidemic has passed. The cost is fixed there, such as housing, real estate, insurance, heat, and electricity. A temporary delay in several pay days of public pay will not be sufficient in these circumstances. Especially is there support for small companies all over the country and sensitive sceptical companies who have the potential to thrive with increased support. The actions of Dana and the Germans to counteract the effects of Covid-19 in small companies are good role models in this. In an emergency situation right now, opportunities may arise for those who want to profit from the situation and the situation of people and businesses who are weak in this situation. Governments have to work on this with further action to keep living in viable companies. Such ones who want to do dishonest business have already begun to feel for themselves. The members of the United States require that the government establish a special surveillance of financial and commercial systems so that no questionable business, marketing, or internal frauds will be carried out in the tragic economic situation today. Moreover, we stress that the government will see to it that banks show community responsibility and work with homes in a difficult position. The message for all of us these days is, "Don't be an idiot." If we avoid being foolish and taking public responsibility for all things, we will succeed. A discussion and a good information flow between the government and the government's opposition needs to be made to protect yourself from the serious consequences of the epidemic. We must be careful of the democracy with the right government information and look for solutions to meet together. Aggressive forces thrive on uncertainty, try to find fault struggles, and offer irresponsible solutions and false news. This can be avoided by consultation and broad solidarity. As soon as there is a national consultation, international cooperation is vital. If the countries around us close down even more for a long time, there will be great consequences here at home. The cooperation of measures and solutions on free and open communities, the increase in equality, human rights and freedom after the pandemic is a key to a good outcome. President. Now we are in the eye of the storm, and in the midst of it, you are not always looking very good. It is difficult to see what happens, what lessons can we learn from the situation, and what should be done better. One thing is certain, two things we've already learned from the Covid-19 pandemic that we have to take with us into the future. At any given time, we must have a powerful health system and a variety of activities. Strong and good health systems for everyone are vital for us and for us the pressures of public defence and national security. The variety of employment activities is also of utmost importance to the economy of households, businesses, state and rural society. In this country, it is too unique as the building blocks ahead of supporting more work. During this period of time, health - care professionals and the system are under intense pressure, and they will increase as more and more are infected. It's overworked. It's overworked. It's before a pandemic. As soon as health care professionals are commended and thanked, there is a shame in this situation that governments do not negotiate the purchase and interest of employees who have been uncontracted for a long time. All budgets must be deactivated during the epidemic. There must not be money to protect people's health, and there is hardly any reason to believe that this will already be the case. Economic and economic ministers announce action and consider the state funds to be in good condition to do more than less. True, he mentioned this in a discussion about assistance to a company, but it must be safe to assume that the same applies to the health care system. Governments need to understand that the public will not be satisfied with the increase in costs resulting in surging this year by cuts and reduced service next year. Even better health systems are one of the greatest national security systems and must be the goal for the future. Travel services have grown in this country in an insurmountable way. The government promoted the growth in various ways, and the article played a key role in bringing good things together after a crash. Travel services represented 8.6% of the EU production last year, four times that of tourism in Denmark and more than 2 percentage points more than in Greece. Therefore, because of our tourism activities, we need to be larger than in the countries around us, which are not based on tourism as a main factor in the world's economy. Travel is a treasure, and there are a number of low - paying jobs. The article is now vulnerable to the consequences of the virus and of a travel and meeting ban. At dawn, the General agreed to a non-employment law so that employees and businesses can maintain recruitment relations in difficulties. The laws were also made to pay the person in a contour and to postpone pay paid pay made by an enterprise to the State. Most of the measures that we will discuss today are set aside to meet the temporary problems of the epidemic and work against unemployment. They are all necessary, but it will also be necessary for governments to provide additional measures for long-term freeze-free enterprises. Small companies need to be taken care of, as I've told you, especially sensitive cuttings, if they are to survive the storm. And we have to make sure that transportation to and from the country is open. To stimulate innovation and technological advancement, more extensive employment for the future must be the goal of providing both financial resources that can be drawn in but also through serious education, especially professional education and ongoing education. Finally, President, it is necessary to look to the countryside in the country. It is essential to look especially at the areas in which we live and the areas that are especially exposed to the problems society is going through. Some communities trust in a large workplace now closed. Already there is unemployment and increasing. The communities that care for close - to - house service, play, elementary schools, disabled ones, and services to the elderly also suffer loss of income, such as a government fund, and the cost increases. They need to be careful that they have the resources to care for their close - up service, which is so important when we face such an emergency and face the challenges we are facing right now. The epidemic has not yet reached its climax, so conditions will get worse before we can look to a better time. Then, President, it is important that we bear in mind that the epidemic will take place, and finally we can resume normal life, which will be a country, state, and we all have to see to minimise the damage.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u47	A respectable president. First, I'm going to have a quick ride out of here. The Senator discussed the importance of speaking across the political field and developing a broad solidarity over such measures. We also discussed this when these suggestions were presented, and it was criticized that it had not yet taken place in Denmark, to have all classes on the stage of introducing common suggestions from all classes. I can think of this because I made sure this weekend that the New Zealand Parliament has started an emergency program, which includes the fact that a special council member is holding the guard's mind on how to react to Covid. 11 Councilmen are in it, six from the government position, and the head of the committee is from a position of government. This is one way to secure a solidarity of action, one side of the political agenda, and the other side work out at the council. Although I'm sure of it. The head of the Economic and Business Committee has done his work faithfully and ambitions can be done better. That's what you did. I'd like to ask about everybody's work and whether the Senator can instruct me about what analysis is behind the bill. The focus that was in the construction industry after the collapse of 2008 was due to the loss of the sector at that time. Do some analyses show that this is an urgent procedure today? How does it rhyme with the fact that in committees, there is a need for further implementation to emphasize articles in which women are large but at the same time are added to articles where women are not numerous, at times in which there are numerous articles in which there are numerous articles on the bottom - freeze meeting grounds and are not allowed to follow up? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u48	The president asks why. Councilmen showing respect for the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u49	Mr. President. First, I'd like to mention the cooperation. I think it would have been better if we had cooperated on the bill's contract and from the first point of view, there would have been intervening between the classes and across groups. The situation is that each of us should come together, and then all of us must give in to a small amount as soon as we receive something for our benefit. That's how I walked, for example. In the commission work, so I speak for myself, and I'm sure that means more, and I was ready to agree on things, since I've liked to have different things if I had received most of my offenses, such as taking the children's benefits in a different direction than the results. For all the work of the law, I think that was especially looked to because it proved to be good in the collapse. Of course, it should have been considered from the situation today. Many services simply do not exist anymore, and people have been completely dumped and are not even doing part - time work as their wives do. Other articles in total freezing, such as hairstyle, work as beauticians, massage rooms, which are forbidden to have activity during this process. Of course, we could cover this up and offer suggestions on how we can enhance these activities after the epidemic has passed and also meet the great number of women who now lose their jobs in the service sector. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u50	A respectable president. I think once we're out of the storm, we'll have to look in the shades of the resistance that will be started because in today's operation, sex error is indicated. I agree with the senator there. I need a little explanation for the children's benefits. A paper with the bill says that paying 20,000 dollars is affected by its impact on the government budget. 40000 k. To all the children of this country, there are 3.1 billion. 80,000 children times an undelivered amount of 80,000 times 40,000 times, totals of 3.2 billion. What purpose does income exchange serve when the benefits of a government fund are as low as they seem to be? [[The president calls.]] The group with reduced compensation is still no longer anything that can be promised. Why bother people with this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u51	Mr. President. There's hope for it. A senator asks. It's a mystery to me, unless the administrative part likes to make sure that some well - earned children get a little more, and it doesn't matter that much of the child's families who have lost their income and go to the criteria since 2019 get less. It seems to be the thought. Of course, it would be great to get those in charge to explain, first of all, why they want to aim for numbers in the child - reform system, which, in my opinion, are unrealistic, and secondly on income in 2019 when most people are paid in 2020. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u52	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by saying thank you. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for the talk, and particularly for a very good partnership on the Economic and Business Committee. I want to take this opportunity to thank everyone. Congress members of the Committee for a good, honest conversation through telecommunications last week. Still, I feel that there are two factors that I should mention. A senator came in, the one on the other hand, the child reformer who was only here for discussion. I want a trial, because some people might get it wrong from a speech or something. A senator before, to the bill as good as any. A financial and business committee went into the child - welfare business service, which paid for the income of 2019. We have no other definition. It is true, however, that a talk was given. A senator debated whether there was a reason for failure to have children's benefits and thus did not have to look to 2019. The conclusion was, as it should be clear, that we changed the bill considerably, and then my question is right. A senator's opinion is that the current export is no better than that of the original member of the bill. There was an error in the area where only one parent's pay was to be seen, not the whole family. This change, however, is done, and the total population of more than 15◯6 million receives 30,000 dollars. with each child and another 42,000. This is my first question to why. Senator. I see time is running fast, I've been planning on coming into everybody's work, and I've got to do it in a later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u53	Mr. President. It's true that the credit for the children's benefits was faulty in the bill. However, it was far higher than what the administrative point suggests. Based on that conclusion, only 130 million people would have lost their income and given 40,000 dollars to all. I hope that no one gets in the way that I don't like it very much, considering that a whole month's income, with a higher child's benefits than in 2019, is just below the middle and below the average. It is based on 625,000 k., if both sides have equal monthly rates, but the average wage was 770,000 k. in 2019 C.E. I think the prince's back is a great idea, and I'm complimenting the guy who thought of bringing him into the bill. You see, it is a good idea to bring the sum and contribute to every family in the country. We cannot find out what their status is today, whether it is above or below this absurdly low standard established by the government. To be sure we do more than less, like the highest. Of course, we should have put the same amount to every family in the country. [[The president calls.]] That would have been really fair and fair.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. As indicated by what. The senator realizes that any financial differences were made to the committee as to whether the funds should flow from common funds to families regardless of their financial situation. It is also true that we find it a challenge to see now the financial needs of families. Therefore, it is important to repeatedly repeat what is stated in the committee's opinion that there is no doubt more action to be made. Then I'd like to step into an operation that I think is urgent, and I spoke very highly to the committee. Hv. paritaprevir For some reason, she was joined by a G. Harðardóttir, and that's the way we're going to all work. It has a fine work assignment that proved to be effective. The senator came in and I think it's not the least because it turns out that it's a good thing to keep these sectors from getting into a black economy, which, unfortunately, is all too common. That's why I think we have to react and look especially at jobs where there are more women. I have given special attention to this at the Society of Industrialism, and I expect them to offer us suggestions and be especially looking to goldsmiths and tailors in those materials. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, but I think everyone works less well for the hairdressers and salons. I wish to. A senator comes with me to think outside the box and wonder how we can meet those important classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u55	Mr. President. It won't stand on the person here going to that job with a what. Senator. I have pointed to it many times, and even before the actions came to care for the sexual affairs of the world. The situation today is different from what was in the collapse. Of course, while we are trying to learn from what went down there and to learn from the mistakes made under these circumstances, the same things do not happen at the same time. The government's actions are masculine. There is more and more money to be done on roads and in articles as men. We cannot fail the women's classes of the land by doing nothing. [[The president calls.]] So it is embarrassing that we add more traditional male groups to the proposals of the committee rather than to the female classes. We do, however, have to do it, and I'm going with it. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir all the way in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u56	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For a fine talk, a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter also thank her for her cooperation at the moment. A financial and business committee that didn't agree on all matters, as the senator came in. The landings the committee eventually represents vary from the emphasis on the people considered. This is reflected in the warnings as well as the answers. Councilmen have written. I'd like to ask you what. A senator into all the work that the senator actually made in answer to earlier. It is true that now there is a gender error in the sample as after a collapse. The senator correctly mentioned a branch office that would be available to meet. Is there an arrangement that the senator envisions that would specifically be able to meet the classes mentioned? Today, the majority of hairdressers are made up of women, and these classes are under a special ban because of nearness. Does the senator have ideas about further action, such as making more payoffs or some sort of appeal to these matters when they can begin? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u57	Mr. President. This is also true of the articles mentioned in all industry, industry, and e.g. We're talking about repairs in an apartment building, that we're not calling people to our home in the current situation. There's gonna be some delay in the ability to work properly. The same is true of cleaning in homes. I can't quite understand why the trades of the women's professions, which are mostly unable to live up to the law. The law is designed to build business, making sure that it does not enter the black economy. Of course, these classes can go there too. Why should we not try to build up our business there? I don't know what the evidence is, and I don't understand it when someone tried to bring it up. Either we have to do this or look particularly at the economy of these little companies. In the country, there is often only one hair shop or one toilet doctor who keeps it out, and these rooms are not capable of losing business in the way that the ban obligatoryly obliges them to do. They are to shut down, the government commands them to do so. They can delay some payment, but I can't see that there's enough action, and then they'll have to give some kind of bone strength. On the contrary, I feel that we should sit down, apart from the House, and try to build practical suggestions to meet the sexier labour market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u58	Mr. President. I agree with the senator and, in fact, with the senator. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, who mentioned earlier that we needed to resolve to find these ways. I think it's true that we should. I think it's true that the senator with the inhuman view, at least. More often, when not usually selected, the classes that men are more in. The Senator mentioned something else that I think is important too, and I just want to come in with this counter-sponsored group. The Senator mentioned the need for us to look to the ways in which they can participate. It is a special joy to see that Reykjavík has already taken place in that regard. I assume that this summer many students will go to the local community for summer work. [[The president calls.]] Does the senator believe that the council or the State could in some way be met with that assignment?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u59	Mr. President. With my community, I know and I know. A senator also knows this, for their representatives came to us on the committee and reviewed their wishes, that in town people naturally worry about business institutions. We place a lot of demands on rural society. We encourage them to go to all kinds of projects and maintenances, but we do not make it clear that they too will be reimbursed on the merit tax. I'm afraid we have to go over all these things. Of course, students will turn to the local community, but this is not just the case. I come from an area where unemployment is already 14% and more than that in Smokeytown. Since unemployment has reached 9% in January, many will be affected by some 290,000 penalties. [[The president calls.]] Societys will need to provide social services in this respect. It will increase, and therefore we need to look especially at the situation of our rural society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u60	President. I come up here to explain everything. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr and hence our Pirata in the government's operations to face economic impacts following a pandemic crown. Significant economic impacts can be expected in the following pandemic, so it is important that governments respond by vigorous and effective protest measures. It is easy to support most of the initiatives proposed in the bill, even though they are not extensive enough, some of which are not likely to be effective and finally lack vision. Substitution of taxes, child reform, reimbursement of a tax, decrease in bank tax, additional payment, and State responsibilities are all measures that are falling in support of the economy business in the current year. Pirates and I are glad that the Committee agreed to make a clear effort to make money and a different kind of money transfer out of companies to their owner during the state-of-law loans. Unfortunately, these conditions will not limit access to such loans for enterprises that have paid a substantial amount of money recently but will respond to a worsening condition with groups of sources instead of capital spending. It may be understood that such restrictions are complex in implementation, but we want to use this opportunity to reduce their community responsibilities to the companies involved. The importance and benefits of such measures as incineration of the host tax and the payment of special savings are ignored, leaving either minimal amounts of money or some specific measures that will bring benefits to relatively few. A special child reformer will certainly use something for children, but the operation is irreverent, and the evidence behind it is unconvincing. It is critical that measures are primarily involved in larger companies. In effect, companies need to have reached a specific size in order to delay the pay of taxes and the access to loans have a basic impact on the quality of life of the business. Thus, the reality of many smaller operators and dictators, such as artists, independent industrialists, and experts, who cannot take advantage of such provisions without a long - term decrease in income. We're going to miss more drastic measures to help the public in the country. A significant unemployment and the lack of income in the public can be expected and will not be seen to be enough to cope. President. On September 16, 2018, Ángel Gurría, the chief secretary of the OECD, told him at a conference in Reykjavík by permission of the president: ▪ We need to build a smarter economy, a new economy that highlights mankind's health and prosperity. You're right. In the present situation, it is possible that the Covid-19 pandemic has already released cumulative pressures on the economy resulting from increased self-activating, changes in international trade, and underlying changes in the labour market. If this is the case, and especially if the pandemic has a significant and permanent impact on the world's system and work market, it is clear that the actions displayed in this bill will never be more than a temporary barrier that is of limited value to the new global economy. Since the world already seems to have changed permanently, it is vital that governments adjust these changes. If that is so, and even if it did not, it is time to look to new ideas that have come up and have increased support for scholars in recent years. They aim to make the economy manly and more sustainable and to promote prosperity in a different sense than just traditional economic growth. In such a approach, it would be emphasised to ensure that public growth and to direct the State's efforts to promote innovation and creative articles and to finance well - research and development, especially in scientific fields that work to solve the environmental climate crisis. Clearly, during the months to come, the pursuit of employment insurance will be significant. Once the adjustments have been made to make it possible for people to obtain partial funds from the fund because of reduced work resources. It is, in fact, just the war difference to set up civilians in the form of a negative income tax level, but to take it a step in making the transition to a non-employment insurance fund in line with what will be expected from the future's economy. In this way, income would be up to a certain level of centenarians, with an antiquities in the state that would decrease as income increases. Thus, people with no income would be able to earn adequate living, but those who had considerable money and yet lack of income would have more freedom because of what would be added. This operation involves less overwork for the State than it is now, and less paperwork for everyone. It would cover all events, but it is clear that there are many special cases in the present system where people in a difficult financial position fall apart. That's a concern, Mr. President. Economic response to an ongoing pandemic can either be based on the government's belief in the ability to maintain a previous situation or their belief that this is not realistic. Pirates and I regard the process as excellent for maintaining a temporary dominant system, yet we feel that the situation requires a better view of new possibilities. We support these actions, Mr. President, with the warnings made and in view of the short period of time needed for the first government response, but we call for the wider cooperation of the government with the General Assembly in the coming weeks and months to rethink the future economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u61	A respectable president. We're here to discuss the government's proposal for the Covid-19 virus. The minister of finance has repeatedly said that he believes that we should do more but less, and in this context, it is rather surprising that at first the suggestions did not include a special payment. They're in, but they're in the weird way that they get 20,000 bucks. payment, which is very good and should be thanks and doesn't work, but let's put it in perspective that we're paying 42,000 bucks. to those who have had minor damages or partial impairment, and then we are paying $30,000. to those who have never been sued because they are so rich. And if we put this into context, I'd say we should have the numbers so that 50,000 bucks. 42,000 k. for the children, and we would have been able to release 30,000 K, except for those who can prove that they really need it because of a decrease in pay or other options they've been exposed to because of the virus. Older citizens are now in, and this was done by a smaller section of the budget board, the smaller part of the council. Then will I mention the bottom of the tithes, those who have no forwards other than the striped payments of bail. We would have wanted to see that the FEE is now losing almost all of its resources because of the epidemic; the fairy sale, reserves frozen because of the epidemic. We will probably never in history need as much help for the weak as are those trapped in isolation. We must realize that in this epidemic, selling alcohol twice in a few days. We just have to hope that soon they will respond and help everyone. In this context it can be noted that by permission of the president, self - preservation, a national network of motorists, was making a announcement. The economic impacts of the pandemic of Covid-19 affect the disabled. There is much about a building that has been built that now stands liftless or other factors that are lacking and that have even been in use for many years. More buildings than fewer such places can be counted. Such a building is expected to last many more years as economic disasters strike the world. Signed to this question, Is there a chance for all these buildings to be registered in a special job campaign? The restoration of the disabled is required, however, to improve the availability of housing. Signed feels that such a fund could work in a similar way to a tourist position, but it would only have the responsibility of improving access to everyone where there is a lack of access to land. This is one of the things we could take into the package and make sure that everyone can make his way in the simplest way. The central Party, the Conspiracy, the Piratars, the Reconnaissance and Party of the People are at a minority party, and it contains, for example, a minority. proposals to invest in nursing homes for 5 billion and many practical suggestions. True, it is going to put in a much greater amount of money than the government intends to do in this rescue package. It's, for example. It is awe - inspiring that a certain group of health - care professionals is on the front lines and needs to work a huge task under extreme circumstances and tells themselves that they are to see to it that they are rewarded for their work. And in this context, it is also worth noting that all medical contracts have not been negotiated and that not long ago have been completed. I'd like to find out more about what was in my speech in the first place. What I can't understand is why in the world someone thought of paying out child damages to those who have previously not been paid because they have been too high and as a result have fallen under impairment, but at the same time the state, year after year, current governments and former governments, has grown to older citizens and desperate. If we put this in any context, we today have a 60 billion impairments in older cities and micro-piercs. We are talking about 5 billion a month. If we want to take out some kind of impairment, we could start out there. If we put it in context of the entire rescue package of 230 billion, as already said, that would be small in percent if one month had been taken out and stopped cutting. But that is not enough. As mentioned earlier, there is a large group under which there is not even a fall, and they are in the long - term payoffs. He needs to help and put his arms around him. If we do not do so after much weight gain, this is the group that does not have food, medicine, or other necessities at the end of the month. Now it's a month's convention coming in the same amount as usual in this group that is so low that it is far below the poverty line, i.e. very low. It tells us how incomprehensible it is that we shouldn't have at any point, no one has done it, found out who's the usual forward. True, a few years ago, but the conclusion was given. Since then, it has been based on some strangely low amount of money that I have often asked myself how it was found and that has not been answered. Which may not be strange because if it was given correctly, and we only need to go back to that point when local tax payment was recorded and recalculated social security, we wouldn't be talking about someone having 200,000 bucks. signed. That would be well over 300,000 bucks. That's what we need. People need that amount. Then it's a little weird about this government rescue package that it's all a man's job. These jobs are, in effect, 90◯95% for men, but women are left behind. In my lecture, I noticed that local societies were kind of referred to, that they should create jobs for women. And I ask why not the state as well? Why direct it to the countryside? There's a lot to add because it needs to be helpful to everyone. The second part of the package is how the switch is. The funds are for example. There are good points, but we need to make some adjustments. One of the things we should do right now would be to finish, for example. The smokeway from the capital area, even into Cheflavík, doubles it. It would be a great effort and would improve traffic security, for as we know, this very bad chapter is an accident. We've been setting up some sort of priorities, and I say to my part that we should prioritize number one, two and three to work and people. Those who are in the worst position today, who are losing a lot of work and who are in part - time work, and the rest of those who have gone into unemployment - this has become a huge group. This is not a very wealthy garden, since unemployment rates are about 280,000. Yet, they are considerably higher than microenergy pensions and considerably higher than what many older citizens are experiencing. And just as they need to be added. It tells itself, and we know, there is no need to inform one or no one about it, that there is no pleasure in 220,000 bucks. paid or less. I think it should matter to us all because statistics show us, in Britain a survey showing black and white, that poverty costs much more to society than to make sure that no one is in poverty. There are health benefits, hospitals, health care, medicine, and so forth. Therefore, it is clear that the best thing we could do for society as a whole is to make sure that no one has to live in poverty. Sadly, though, more is involved at the council. There seems to be more of a thing to keep things private. Then the next question is: Why on earth has the government after the government not made room for the complete destruction of our shame that 500 to 1,600 families need and must rely on food supplies, waiting in rows for food supplies at the present time? Now a certain group gets a pack of food home, but I know, unfortunately, not everyone gets it. Some are not online or are able to call and save themselves. It sucks to know that in 2020, people are living at home alone, with a galtoman refrigerator, and unable to make any money. The rest of us have to stand on our feet and keep an eye on us. We need to point out where the shoe goes, try to find these individuals, get information about where they can look. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] They're setting up a telephone at the Red Cross, which will be able to call, as well as an e-mail with the Ministry of Health. It's good as far as it goes. What's missing in this too, and I've never seen in any of the cops here are what the government is going to do for the church's relief work, Iceland's Family Help Committee, Mother Control Committee. There's no dollar in it. I really hope that there'll be millions of people in there, they'll make a big difference. This is where governments and societies need to come because people trust in them. I'd say it would be great if the money they put in there was spent so that these people could get wholesome products, light, vitamin D, vitamin C, everything that helps, and we know that helps. If we don't, I think there's going to be a lot more cost for us. As I said in the beginning, it returns to what is put in there, returns with better health, reduces the pressure of the health system, and makes good money for everyone. The underlying principle is to use common sense in such matters, not just to put on your sensible glasses just before elections and then take them down and go to your old, good gone. We have to make sure everyone gets a rescue package. No one gets left out. If we succeed, it's okay, but if we don't make it, it sucks. Well, on a trip like this, as it is now, we shouldn't leave one of them out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u62	Madam President. To save time, I will just read my warning on that committee opinion as a matter of course. The head of the Economic and Business Committee presented earlier, a opinion that all members of the Committee signed, but that a number in advance, including me. The alarm reads: The EEA has made significant changes in the activities of the Economic and Business Committee. It is reason to thank the chairman of the Committee for giving the Committee the opportunity to make these changes and to have taken the initiative personally to make changes. The various comments published in the hosts have been taken into account. This applies both to correction of technical defects and chemical alterations. The changes proposed by the committee to meet many of the points that the members of the Central Party pointed to during the first discussion of the subject. The central Party's position has been that governments should have reported action early and that it should have been much more extensive than they were. Yet, we have repeated that members of the party would contribute to any action that would lead to the damaging effects of the crown virus epidemic. Clearly, some of the changes laid down in the bill and the changes made by the Commission need to be implemented before a month's match. For these reasons, I sign the committee's opinion, and I don't suggest adjustments beyond the suggestions offered by the committee in common. Many proposals made by the Committee and some of the comments published in the committee are greatly improved and, in certain cases, reflect practical insight. Although it is important for me to say that I do not agree with all that appears in the opinion of the committee and that some of the conclusions there are very opposed. There are some examples of things that have not been resolved sufficiently. This is not a complete list, but the above are listed to show what might have been considered better by the Committee. The payment of a special child improvement proposal is completely incomprehensible. It has been shown that it is a serious problem to perform the procedure in the way the government presented and published on the bill. The proposed income transfer is ineligible, although there is no data on tax pay in the past year. In addition, it is clear that in many cases more than a year, income does not comment on the income and the circumstances of people in the current year because of the pandemic's impact. Finally, the general procedure, in a way that reaching all who have children in their own time, has been found to result in a relatively small increase in cost. It is likely that the complications of achieving the unshrunk fixation will be more costly than simple. Moreover, the simple one would have guaranteed benefits that would benefit those who have lost their jobs, or a substantial part of their income. There was nothing more to be heard in the discussions of the committee than that there was a broad understanding. Thus, the conclusion that lies before them is surprising, not too much of a question as to how political doctrines are based, rather than on real conditions. It has been suggested that even more complicated matters have been tried to resolve complications. Such methods are most inappropriate in today's situation, requiring that action is as general and simple as possible. There is a serious problem with the exporting of companies. It is enough to mention that the conditions to set up for borrowing enterprises with the State's share responsibilities seem to be a failure to rule out enterprises that have not been exposed to the major business problems, at this point, but are likely to face great difficulties soon. Thus, there is a danger that companies who could keep people in work and prove to be a long - term success in the economy between ships and docks. To the extent that they had to resign, the companies could be badly equipped to bring about the restoration of the economy. This may be added, Madam President, that this case has, to some extent, under a budget committee, and in its part, the Economic and Business Committee has made adjustments to reduce the conditions that had been agreed with the Commission. Nevertheless, there is reason to express concern over the conditions under which the tax is appointed to work on the job involved in making a decision between enterprises. Then I'll continue with my warning. With the bill and the changes to the committee, the tax is entrusted with a very large role in evaluating companies and their rights to the state of the country. However, there is still considerable doubt as to how the tax system is going to fulfill this role and realize that it will include a huge amount of work, time, and number of opinions. This is yet another reminder of the importance of action under these circumstances being as general and simple as possible and that it can be introduced rapidly. There might be a number of other examples of how the committee's comments could have been taken more seriously, e.g. Regarding the effects of alcohol charge on tourism and restaurant services as well as the effects of property taxes. Then there are measures that would have added to the government's plans, but as mentioned earlier, the Commission will not allow room for suggestions that fall outside the framework set by the bill. When the government presented the measures that the committee has considered, it was noted that changing circumstances would call for further action. It was clear to me that before the operation was introduced that the situation would soon be much worse than the ones proposed. In this context, it is appropriate to remind you that the sooner you take appropriate measures, the more likely they are to produce the desired results and the less the costs for society will be at the end of the day. Although I'm signing the committee's opinion for the above reasons, I reiterate the importance of the immediate attack of further action and that the Committee allows the Minister to adapt the proposal to the real situation or to take the initiative to suggest measures that are in order to minimize the loss of society of the current crisis. That's what happened to my captain at the hearing of the committee. Finally, I would like to mention thanks to the chairman of the committee and other members of the committee for the general cooperation of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u63	Madam President. At the beginning of my speech, there is every reason to say thank - you to the committee at what time. A financial and business committee to the Chairman of the Committee and, indeed, to all members of the Commission for good cooperation and solution in this case, will end up in a very special situation today. In my speech, I will not discuss all the articles of the bill, for other members of the council have already done so and had access to the factors that I might have affected otherwise. But there are some significant changes that have been made, and then some of these have also been added to the bill, and I will touch some of them. It has been said today, and it may be over and over again that, of course, the action we are taking now is not some final answer to the situation, but the circumstances that we are in today that we are in to answer some questions permanently are impossible to respond to a condition that is likely to be affected by such a situation. There has been a lot of talk about money money and how to put your arm around companies that are being paid by the government in connection with these measures. But it is important in my opinion that in the bill it is actually taken completely into account, both in terms of the loans and the payments for public pay, that companies who make use of these support routes can pay off money or buy their own stocks. This is of utmost importance, for it would offend moral feelings, I think, the vast majority of the people if we were to overlook such factors. The committee makes a move toward complete solidarity, and this is very important. Similarly, there has been a considerable discussion of the child's improvement and whether it will achieve the laid goals, i.e. meeting with children's families who have had problems with school endings, habits, etc. The children's roof is also a message to families in the country that governments will remember what they can do with their families and homes. There's been a little discussion about the transition, too, i.e. drawing a line around a range of revenues, and as we have seen before today, we will make family income, not individual income, as is the case. The head of the committee came in handy earlier today. The committee, however, changes the amount of money to the top of the range that is higher than the amount in the lower range. In a sense, this is to meet the views that have been tore up here today, that it is difficult to understand exactly which groups in the community are in trouble today, although their position was in a certain way last year. However, I would like to mention and believe that it is important to think that those in the upper income range last year should be in a better equal way now to respond to the situation than those at the lowest wage rate. That may be where the big difference lies. Then you can ask yourself, " Do I not have to continue improving my child - welfare system, and I agree with that? ' But that is not part of our provision now. It is not given to make a significant drop in income to form microsurgents, which we meet in some respects with the June single payment. However, it is important to look to that group of people in this action, for we cannot really know for sure that a certain group has not been affected. And let us remember, too, why. Councilmen, that it is likely that in fact, the very ones who may be mostly involved in part - time work are individuals, some of them even in low percentages. This may mean that they do not have access to the part - time benefits we have discussed here during the past few days. Hence, it is important to meet this group, and this is an important message for these individuals. In the last week's discussion, it's all coming together, but it's probably last week, we talked about the partial improvement system and the parentheses that were then put on fish farms because of the specific rules of unemployment for that group. Hv. The welfare committee at that time had been assured that they could be met properly so that their rights were comparable to those of others in the labour market. However, since then it has been found that it is not, at least not entirely. Hence, the committees decide to remove the freedoms that were valid for that person. Fish-employers, after approval of this bill, should have exactly the same rights as others, in spite of specific laws on the non-employment insurance policy, no. 51/1995. The whole project turned out to be pretty good in the collapse. As members of Congress have established, it is true that in a sense, a small male - eyed part of the workforce, which men may do to a greater degree than women, is focused on. In fact, Madam President, I'd like to be delighted that here in the hall today, there have just been ideas and speculations that, as governments, we might have to find a special way to deal with this and try to get, we should say a little more soothingly on this project, not all jobs involved in traditional male activities, but women's work if we can afford to put such labels on certain professions. The bill assumes that the provision of the provision of the bank tax will be removed and the outcome will all be implemented this year. This is to try to pressure the banks to reduce interest and thus meet families and businesses. It is also important that the Council of Government and, indeed, the Economic and Business Committee itself continue to observe this and be assured that this plan is actually being used for the purpose of it. For example, the white book on the financial market shows that this particular point was mentioned exactly as a means of reducing financial growth. I think it's important. Then, there have been some discussions today about rural society and how they get involved in the present problem. In the bill, there are several paces on both the real estate costs and the local authority to compromise the financial rule over the past three years. It's very important. On the contrary, we have to be confident that similar to what Reykjavík has announced this weekend, the local community will meet its inhabitants. In the capital area, society has already published a declaration in terms of remuneration, and hopefully there are more such resources in the lake, and hopefully it will not be long before other rural areas in the capital area report in detail, such as Reykjavík in what way they will react. This is especially important in support of local homes. These measures will take the way that other government members must take on, but the load will be reduced if more people come to bear them. At the end, Madam President, I would like to mention options that may not have been much discussed in how we can deal with this problem, and that is the publication of government bonds. This has been done before in crisis and also in special projects in this country. Some of the people in this room may remember that when the Icelanders took up the task of making their way around the country, the public was invited to invest in government bonds to handle this assignment. Now the current epidemic is not compared to the funding of that project; however, it may be a reason to give those who are able to place their money in the stock market, thus adding relief to the government. You might think that these might be in the form of letters for special projects, and I specifically mention that the letters would be green and perhaps in some cases you could choose to buy such letters. I think it's at least... something we can consider. Of course, the main thing is that we are now taking probably another big step toward meeting society and homes and businesses in the country. We will need to take more steps, but the more sensible these steps will be, the easier it will be when the epidemic is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u64	A respectable president. I agree with the senator that much is looking forward to improvement in the release of the committee on this matter. He spoke only of the child reformer, since I believe that steps were taken in the right direction, but that situation reminds us, as the senator mentioned, that the words are an urgent need to reevaluate the system as a whole. If we simply had a child - reform system that worked, the coin that is planned for this and put it in the children's relief system could be taken, and it would almost automatically share the funds to where they need it. Now the sleeves need to be boarded and a proper child improvement system. In a committee program, it tells us that for further implementation of the EU budget, all of us need to focus on the larger number of articles. I'd like to ask you when the committee saw to do that and who to do so. This is not indicated in the report. Further implementation is carried out by the addition of a new male class to the changes made by the Committee. So I would like to ask myself, " Is everyone working may be a child of his time, whether there is now anything the same urgent need to rebuild the construction industry as it was in 2010 when these provisions were made? ' Is it copied from that time without taking enough into account today's need, especially in view of the fact that later today's investment campaign will be followed by an investment in which the construction industry receives something for which it is due. Would these funds be more used in more specific activities than those in the sea? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u65	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for the answer. I came into it in opposition to earlier and again now that the senator's right to improve the child repair system as it is right now. Exactly because I think that I and the Senator agree that the system is not good enough, even though we don't go into details about how we wanted to change it, we would have continued the same system by putting all the money into the same system, we would have kept the same unfairness if we could say so. For further implementation, everybody wins the range. The Economic and Business Committee for that work immediately after Easter break, if it was my option, and tried to complete for spring to find some ways or instructions, probably in cooperation with the tax and the Ministry, because it is very important. I'm pointing out what. A senator is required to direct the effort to an article in which homes consume a certain amount of money, but not necessarily to accomplish such projects as building a building. Hence, it would be possible to find articles that are more concerned with women and that, if that is a word, are more consumer and look into the context of adding them into this arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u66	Madam President. I encourage the senator to get an economic and business committee to cover these matters. I remind you that there is no work plan in force, so there is no such thing as Easter break, and there is a way to resolve the matter right now. Wait a minute. A senator taking with him the job to see if all work is over the head of a creative hormone that works, on the one hand, because worth tax is one of the most important state's revenues and everything we do to weaken that income stock, we need to make it a careful consideration of matters and, on the other, simply because of the scope. In the bill's report, it's important that unchanged resources, which everyone works only for the construction and construction industry business, call for a post-impliment tax of 8 billion. That, then, is one of the largest points of the nearly 60 billion in pure public donations in today's government campaign. What, then, is involved in the entrance of the car branches? Did the committee shoot at it? What is included in the ongoing addition of new classes? I encourage the committee, when she starts looking at this, to see if this is the wrong way, and to see if it would be better to identify the classes that need to be strengthened because of the situation, for example. An ban on meetings sets them up and then find pointed ways to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u67	Madam President. Hv. A senator knows that we agree on quite a lot. In that sense, these answers have certain similarities. Everything's fine. I can totally understand the senator's view that maybe everyone is working as good as unnecessary, and that some of the valuable taxation system is going to bleed. As such, it is not ideal in the long run. I think it's right for the senator to think that because there is just a limited amount of time for next year, we should use the time, whether it is during the Watchtower week or what, to determine what other options we can find. I have more money on innovation, design, technology, or articles connected to the fourth industrial revolution. It's certainly an opportunity for us as a community, as I think the senator would agree with me, to find ways to get a better foundation to kick us out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u68	Madam President. I appreciate this discussion. Many benefits have been observed in the important issue involved in the economic impact of the pandemic, Covid-19. Of course, we in the media support this matter. The head of the party, my ass. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, has taken note of the warnings we face, and I'm not going to take a closer look at them here. There's a lot of good stuff in this case. There's a deadline that's very important in these difficult situations, e.g. to the local pay, and to the benefit of a lot of people. The big problem is, and it may soon be revealed how much it is as soon as it is due to an enterprise's pay on a merit tax. There will be an excellent scale on the problem. I'm afraid we could see how serious this problem is. It is also a matter of payment on certain public fees and of whether at some point it must be dropped. We know for ourselves that payment is temporary, and then it comes back to dues, and the debt has to be paid. The question is, will it be easier for these companies to pay it later, you fear that it will not be, and we will see the need for some sort of demolition? This is difficult because many companies will try everything they can to keep the staff and get through these difficulties without any government aid. Thanks to that. Sadly, it seems that a company that is doing well will take advantage of this part - time work method to save money this April year. On the other hand, there are good companies who could easily have taken advantage of this route, saved millions, but do not also intend to shoulder the responsibility. It is a social thing, an appeal to human conscience, that business owners appreciate what they can do on their own without having to seek Kingdom help. We should not forget, though, that tens of thousands of people in the private sector have now moved on to a financial compensation that is added to the less than 11,000 individuals with no employment. The pay of the majority of big companies, private companies, is now being paid largely by the taxpayers. Let us not forget that these companies are the common people. In addition, private companies are being given unprecedented access to tax money to survive. We show this understanding because it is important to maintain employment relationships and not to be abandoned. The most serious blow is to be dumped, but being assigned to part - time work is a much better way. On the other hand, big business consciences must be appealed to. I'd like to mention one company, the Blue Lion, who has been on the news for using this way to maintain employment relationships and who doesn't have to resign people, but it's a company that paid a very few shareholders interest in 6.6 billion in two years. By the end of 2018, the company had over 12 billion in its own money. I think it's right to promote that big firms aren't allowed to have free cards in this regard. We're in all of this together, and people have to look to what they can do to meet their employees without being helped by the State. In the end, this is the common fund for all the people of the country. In terms of the conditions in these areas, the tax has been discussed as a key factor when it comes to spending time, and it is very important that the procedure is general and simple. That's important. The tax authorities need to realize that understanding must be exercised and that they will not work hard to collect official fees when people know the situation. In a sense, this is passed to the tax authorities. I'd like to specifically mention the way that's been listed here, everybody wins, i.e. reimbursement of cost tax on work at a construction site. It has been extended to cover the driver's license show. I like that way, and she's shown that she's been successful. We have considerable expectations that those who are able to carry out will do so because this way is an incentive for them to do so. The same applies to the specialisation system. The purpose is to stimulate the economy, to have money from one hand to another, which they can use to buy goods and services. In this regard, it is essential to encourage people to buy Icelandic and select Icelandic. That's important. We see in the global economic catastrophe of what is truly important to us. We are to support him by any means available and to select Icelandic. All I want to do is come to pay for an invalid, so-called holiday remuneration of 20,000 bucks. which does not involve impairment. This, of course, is a cause for rejoicing. This procedure is also thought - provoking in a considerable way to promote the economy, i.e. that those who receive this payment will use it for consumption, which will go into the economy. Then you might ask, " Is it not reasonable for older citizens to get the same amount of payment, some kind of remuneration in their pension payment that comes about a month - time period, that some extra payment would come on top of it? ' I would have thought that was normal. I spoke to them on a budgetary committee, but that was not the result of the committee. On the other hand, we move to the government's stand for changes in order that pensioners receive the same payment as disability, especially to stimulate the economy, which is extremely important in this situation. I'd like to step only on so-called bridge loans, extra-employment loans to companies, and the Shared Bank in those topics. There are questions about how this will be done. First, the project needs to be simple. Commenting on the possibility that this could be too complicated, it was observed to the authorities, and they have also been concerned that there is not enough understanding in the banking system in this regard. After the collapse of the economy, bankers and creditors have been advised to keep full insurance so that the attitude of the banking system is a little stiff. We need to consider that within the banking system, we have a complete understanding of the problem. I've tore up these concerns on my work within the Committee, and in my opinion we of the Committee have achieved a reasonably good landing on conditions for paying the loan. It is important to consider the company's position, as suggested, that companies do not pay money and do not earn their own stocks. I have also suggested that this year's consideration is not natural for companies to reduce pay paids for management and executives. This makes you more appealing to the consciences of those companies. Regarding what is involved in the Saver's Bank, you wonder how the Governing Body intends to coordinate its role as a responsible employee on loans to monitored parties. It turns out that the check is on the same hand as the lender. How are these different tasks compatible, e.g. when borrowing calls for borrowing the terms of terms? Then there's always the question of who might be in charge of taxpayers. That's important. If the bank is a harmless intermediate, you will ask how it provides for the interests of taxpayers and how it becomes active in that regard. Then there is the question of how the steward will make sure that the portion of the loan he is responsible for guards on interest from less than other loans. Some companies are in a bad position because they have been paying off and buying their own letters and then standing before high pay fees for employees and owners. How does the Secret Bank intend to ensure that the measures taken will not be used to save these companies? Although it is a payment fence, taxpayers are not to be responsible if the management of an enterprise has been irresponsible in this regard. The terms need to ensure the interest of taxpayers. It's very important. A person in the community hears that suspicion of the options for this reason and that the measures such as these are important need to ensure that there will be no reason for suspicion and that a perfect, transparent state will exist. The U.S. Senate approved a huge rescue package, which is conditional to make it official which companies are borrowing so that the public knows exactly which companies they are. I would have thought it was natural that the public knew which company was going to get credit. In addition, if there are miscalculations on the bridge loans, you may ask, " How does the Federal Committee intend to secure the interests of taxpayers, as well as insurance? ' It's all in the hands of banks, but who makes the decisions? That's what we need to be able to do. Does the late bank come to that decision? Is that consistent with the bank's surveillance role? These are all questions to keep in mind. I would personally have thought it normal for the General to go over the contract that should be done between the Huns and the financial companies and that it would be made completely official and beneficial so that we wouldn't have to look at secret in these matters. It happened in the collapse of the bank, making decisions that have not been enough to get information on, e.g. of the Secret Bank and Hilda ehf There's got to be a transparency. In addition, you need to ask yourself, " Is it not normal to be made public exactly which company gets credit money? ' However, I am stressing that it is necessary and that we in the Central Group support this strategy. We want to consider, however, that the taxpayers are paying personal bills, so we need all tables and activities. I don't think it's too much of a discussion about individuals, the public, in these measures. It will be necessary to help those who face problems and to postpone the payments, as the financial institutions have done to companies in the country. We must not forget the individual. It is absolutely necessary to extend the payment charge to the bankruptcy laws, to reduce the number of bankruptcy in the longest law, and not to work hard on individuals in a bad position but to give them the opportunity to make loans. I stress that it will be necessary to help people who are facing great difficulties because of their unprecedented circumstances and, in fact, an economic catastrophe that is happening to us and to the entire inhabited earth. In addition, the inflation has to be carefully monitored. There is an increase in the amount of money in traffic that can cause more inflation. We need to keep a very close eye on this. At this point, the late bank does not have much concern, and that is so fine, positive news in this situation, yet we need to be on guard. If this persists substantially, our fight against this virus and all that is involved, it is clear that we must be at least prepared for the removal of the index and thus protected homes. I point out that the Central Party has provided suggestions that I hope the government is using. These rescue measures need to be restored within a short period of time. In addition, the smaller item has provided substantial suggestions, including some of which may be considered helpful. the country's security. That's something the government hasn't seen. In the memory of a section, we have a special arrangement for setting $3 billion. in interest and housing improvements. It's an important option that's absolutely necessary to go in because the homes must not be forgotten when we're helping the companies. It's all going to work together. [[The president calls.]] Hopefully, all of us will take delight in doing our work ahead of us in great peace and cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u69	Madam President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much. Many of the government's measures are very good and, of course, thanks to the good cooperation achieved by the Economic and Business Committee on improving as much as possible. However, it has to be said, as it is, that I and other members of the committee would have felt that it would have been more important to go further. The basis is that these economic measures, the first measures, turn much toward postponing the cost of employment and opening credit lines with a state guarantee. I really need more direct injections into the economy, where I especially look at small and medium-sized companies. We may be inclined to paint the interests of employment and the public as some of the opposite interests in this context, but it is good to remember that measures for especially small and medium-sized enterprises are primarily in my mind to spend jobs, making sure that the most jobs are lost in the down cycle we are dealing with today. It is only good to remember that nearly 50% of the labour workers in Iceland work for companies with fewer than 20 employees. These are mainly small companies, the largest number, 35%, working for companies with fewer than ten employees. The small companies, micro enterprises in the international context, are the dominant forms of employment. These companies are many people getting really bad at this time, and there are all the jobs that are going to be lost. This enterprise is most difficult to get over the head of some loan account, even when it's well over, and it's these companies that need all the support they can get in times like this. Therefore, I have to say that it is disappointing that in reality none of these companies have actually been involved in some sort of demolition on public fees. I would have thought that such measures were completely justified, at least in the first round, with this little company. We are to keep in mind that, as a result, a large number of small services have just closed down. Owners and staff are helpless for an unpredictable future because of the measures we are taking as a community to stop the spread of the crown virus. It is perfectly normal and necessary for governments to meet these small companies because of a major loss of income. It's a service like hair salons, beauty salons, hospital massages, and e.g. a variety of healthcare professionals, a service that will not be performed again. It simply falls out, and this is a huge loss for small companies who don't necessarily have a lot of resources to deal with it themselves through a large and large account, such as larger companies have frequent and frequent. That's why I would have liked to see more decisive measures for the small companies, for them the burden of employment, the delivery of the households as soon as household incomes are included. We've seen this in the treatment of the Council of the operation that the government has presented so that it has managed to correct certain things. The part - time work route that shows itself on this month's match is likely to be one of the most beneficial actions for the soon - to - be - short careers, in the management of political reconciliations and smaller parts, which required much adjustment from the original administrations of the government. I would have wanted us to have made comparable peace, comparable ambition to the issues we are discussing here today. I especially miss this case that we have not gone further to postponement of other paid days, such as merit taxation and tax transport costs, i.e. Import fees. This may be a serious problem, especially for smaller companies, over the next few weeks in total lack of income. Although this might be a real problem, I miss that no more lasting action was taken. We're just making it possible for companies to push it ahead and at expense, with tow growth. Only here on merit days is it being suggested that the stress caused by neglect be canceled, but divorce will then bear a tow. There I would have wanted to go further, and it would have been taken in a decisive way on the authority of an enterprise to postpone this pay period against as little as possible. According to that, I also want to commend what is being done, e.g. will allow companies to postpone three pay days of their choice to have a considerable impact, it will be relevant for companies, small and large, and it will be a very good price. There is good work to be done. I missed the same way that comparable measures were not applied to large taxpayers, such as the valuable tax and the so - called toll centenarian tax. Once again, I miss that we do not have much more direct support for our micro enterprises, small and medium-sized companies, who will have whatever is most difficult to deal with this problem. I think it's true that all of us who are employed here have this in mind because I have felt that there was a lack of courage in the operation of the government so far. It seems that it has taken the government a long time to realize how much economic effects the Korean virus has reflected in the fact that most of the procedures presented so far have had to be improved. Even so, they are in international comparison if we look at an appeal number, as a ratio of land production or whatever the way we want to measure it, despite the obvious fact that no Western country has the same degree of tourism in its country as Iceland, and no industry around the world is going to be as bad as it is in the pandemic. I hope we can get together on it here in the weeks to take further action. I miss the fact that this package of action has not been entered with more weight than it does. To say that, I sign this committee opinion and thank you for the cooperation that was achieved. She was very good on the Economic and Business Committee for the past week, but I'm signing off on notice that I've been doing this very hard-to-get.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u70	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion at all, but after joining the Committee's work on this important issue of economic impacts following a pandemic crown virus, I want to do what others do. Committee members of the Commission are concerned with the results and are grateful for the cooperation that was achieved by the Committee, particularly for the head of the Committee, to work particularly hard to achieve a solidarity on the issues of opinion. It is not simple in this brief period of time. This is indicated by the signing of all the committees, and it is very important, despite many of the people who wanted to go further as they have explained in their talks. I reiterate, a respectable president, that this is not final action. This is made clear in a committee program, and I tolerate and respect all the ideas that have come to the point that there may be a need for further action. Here are very important actions, I appreciate, since the main objective is to protect jobs, companies and the economy of the households. It's all interwoven in the economy, with two main pioneers, company and home. All these actions here aim in that direction and it's important. I emphasize, however, that we are to watch it every day in this grave uncertainty about what needs to be done more and where we need to go further. To put this matter in line with the issues we will discuss in the future, and I will have a story about which is a financial bill, budgets, and authority to go to an investment campaign with a Senate resolution of that matter. Thank you for the great discussion that's been here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u71	Madam President. At the end of this discussion, I'm going to thank the speaker very much. The discussion was rich, and thanks to it. I thought, however, that it would be right for me to speak up eventually because I answered. paritaprevir It's a G. Harðardóttir with a question for even a new G. The possibility of having a partner make use of reimbursement tax because of projects in an apartment building, mainly because I wasn't on very strong ice when the question was raised. After comparing me with lawyers, both at the General Assembly and then at the Ministry of Economics, I just want to state that all barley residents or owners have a right to this remuneration of the prize, i.e. those who are building or parking for maintenance costs of apartment or vacation houses, whether it is individuals, rural areas, tenants, housing partnerships, holiday funds, or anyone else. The principle is that reimbursement is not used in worthwhile tax service. I felt that it was proper and obliged to state this because I could not answer a question. paritaprevir Oddný new G. Harðardóttir daughter. But again, I thank you very much for this discussion and thank the members of my group. A financial and business committee, for a long, hard time meeting. It wasn't always simple, but we managed to get it to this Assembly Hall, and now the matter awaits the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u72	V.E.G. President. I recommend to the Committee's members a greater portion of the budget on the budget for 2020, while offering a proposal for a temporary investment initiative. The committee discussed the matter at a number of telecommunications, and I thank the quick response of these many people with reviews and a conversation that is always important. They are listed at the front of the written Trinitarian party. 1,190, which will take care of both issues, as it shows. The main focus of the bill for funding for 2020 can be divided into three major teams, remuneration warrants increases, and sources for financial and economic ministers for a change of 6. ... abundant. First, a total of 21.1 billion can be requested. pay permissions on three topic areas and categories. It's 15 billion dollars. special investment initiatives, 3.1 billion due to special child improvement and finally 3 billion due to special marketing campaigns in tourism. Second, request an increase in clearance to borrow a government fund of 95 billion dollars. from what was expected in the budget up to 140 billion dollars. Third, please request five new sources that are added to Article 6. financing on financial and economic sources. In addition to the measures I have already listed, it is finally necessary for a minister to give the funds of the state's loans as a result of additional success loans to the enterprises which have suffered significant loss of income due to a pandemic Korean virus, up to 70%. At the same time, a minister is allowed to negotiate with Iceland's Secret Bank on the implementation of this responsibility for loan institutions. In an upcoming agreement, the objective conditions that will be proposed to establish decisions on the exchange of responsibilities between the loan institutions and the greater terms on how to ensure that loans can be provided are based on clear, grammatic and transparent criteria that will lead to the equalness of the companies seeking such payment. I think the committees all, the more part in this case, emphasize it. The review of the Commission and the discussion with the client generally shows satisfaction by the actions of governments displayed on the bill and on the bill to legalize measures to meet economic impacts following a pandemic crown virus. That is not the case. 683, and we discussed it before, a respectable president. At the same time, it may be necessary to take additional measures to meet the economic challenges caused by the epidemic. The result of the economic downturn is severe, and economic impacts on a number of sectores and homes remain very uncertain. All the measures these aims to achieve, as soon as the health show is first, to protect the businesses, the economy of citizens and the work of the country. There's a lot of pressure on the health system. It is not only a direct cost to the virus epidemic but it is also a disorder of the normal health care system that may eventually resume the pandemic. It is important to hold on to the cost of this, so that it can be met systematically by means of financial contributions. In particular, a majority of the measures taken are called attention to the health care professional's health care status. One of the talks is the formation of the health and welfare departments. It is noteworthy that people are willing to work hard in such circumstances, and health professionals in many places have already registered themselves. Many people thus want to share in solving this temporary problem, the class in the front line, the nurses, the medical staff, and the doctors in these dangerous times. The majority of them stress and feel that it is important to acknowledge and thank their work. The importance of these groups is undisputed. The budget of the year for 2020 is smiling, as has many times been discussed and widely, but it is recently published by the Navy. One is darker and the other milder. I'm not going to do that exactly, but I'd like to say that in the past few years, the State Bank's goals on prices have been going on. However, the greater part emphasizes that governments constantly measure prices as time goes on, especially in the interests of their households. In our conversations, it became very clear that there is real concern that there may be some in times of inflation and anxiety that could well be passed on to the committee. The majority agree that it is important to maintain the level of prices achieved in recent years and to communicate with the National Institutes of Economic Affairs, the National Association of Iceland, the Federal Bank, and other Member States. He emphasized that this was something that the government had to do with it. The uncertainty of the pandemic may be expected to cause severe contractions in the workplace investment. It looks like more investment investments this year than it was predicted before the epidemic broke out so that we were in some sort of economic recovery, even under the circumstances we were looking at in front of us than in situations we have not previously seen by this method, it is important that the public responds as reflected in an investment campaign and attackes on human resources and exploits. In many places it has been observed that the treasure of the Kingdom is blessedly equipped to carry out such projects today. This is based on the wisdom of the way things have been handled over the past few years, especially in view of the debt paid down. The same can be said of the economic situation of households and companies whose debts have decreased. Then I'd like to state that in the current budget, when 75 billion are in investments and that I have doubled from 2016's budget. It is important to add to as we are doing here and to see the progress of the Senate arrangement. It is very important that the actions we are taking to reach this year, but as proposed in a Senate resolution form, the criteria are that the initiatives presented in funding and Congress resolutions will not be adopted later than September 1 and will not be completed later than April 1st, 2021. Substitution of projects can then be seen in the chart on page 24. 13 of the proposal. This investment campaign generally receives a very positive response from a teacher. Some of them suggest that funds be added to the campaign and that there are ways to which they can relate, such as increased input into the Technical Development Fund, increased reimbursement of research and development costs, and the cooperation of road projects, which is the prime of the British department. Transport and Regional Ministers and has been submitted for the council. It was a big discussion on the committee, and it is absolutely true that we must look ahead and as soon as we work through the uncertain times that are now and that these are not the final measures. A number of assignments are urgent and are being prepared. The majority of the items expect further steps to be taken, which include: asked for a report with the bill. He likewise feels that, as we can see here, it is urgent to prioritize more money for research and innovation, as well as the introduction to transport and nursing facilities. The majority makes several adjustment proposals to promote investment spending, which are explained in a specific section of the Committee opinion, as well as other adjustments. The bill asks for $3.1 billion. a contribution to special childhood improvements. That proposal is implemented in the case that we discussed the previous operation package, and I think it's an excellent landing on that matter. The proposal was generally very positive, but opinions were normal. It may have been the main point and the information we have regarding income, as they appear today, and compared with the past year. It suggests a different output than originally shown in the bill, in a modification form in that case, and I think it reached an excellent landing, which was just overstepped earlier. This change is expected to remain within the budget that we are about to accept in this financial bill. The bill also asks for $3 billion. due to the markets associated with travel services to address the reduction in the number of tourists. It is estimated that there are halves of this product in the international market and a national marketing campaign. It's like I said earlier that the government's loan will be raised from 45 billion dollars. 140 billion dollars. Because of the increased financial needs of the state fund. Several sources have pointed out that these 95 billion dollars. increase may be underestimated. The majority estimate is that there is no need to raise the loan at this time. However, the majority of the items will be closely monitored over the next few weeks and months and may need to be reviewed later on. Here's a proposal for authority to increase the share money of state companies in order to improve their investment capacity. It has not been determined but is expected to be able to study up to 8 billion. The mostly looked up in this relationship is Istavia ohf. and Farice ehf. Both of these societies are 100% owned by the government. It is evident in these days that the spread of the Korean virus has had a major impact on the operations and activities of Istavia, and it is clear that the Society will have to reorganize his business in the next month. It is therefore impossible for the Society to live under the aforementioned investment level without support from the State. It also points to the fact that Southnes have already been hard at work because of the crown virus. There is a lack of employment, for which there was a greater need for employment in the country. I think there was a solid agreement in the Committee that there would be a special effort, and we look at this route as part of the action required. Here's a proposal for authorization for Ministers to give loans the responsibility of a government fund that students in the range of 50/70% of the head loans to those enterprises that have suffered significant loss of income because of the pandemic. The majority and the committee all agreed on the importance of ensuring the management and transparency of this arrangement. This document requires changes in the case of 683 and including This is from the warrant to negotiate with Iceland's Secret Bank on the implementation of responsibilities for loan institutions. To establish a contract between the Minister and the Council Bank, the bank will negotiate with credit institutions, where the scope and conditions of responsibility will be further defined. The majority suggest an increased flexibility in the proportion of responsibilities so that they can be between 50 and 4700%. A secretary's agreement with the Federal Bank requires that you set out conditions for which the bank allows the scope it provides for the responsibilities of individual loans. This need to ensure that credit costs are made up of clear, grammatical and transparent grounds that will contribute to the equalisation of the companies looking for financial support. Nevertheless, in view of the uncertainty about the company position and the extent and nature of the problem they face, it is necessary to provide a specific flexibility in the implementation of the conditions that will be given responsibility because of the extra loans so that they can make the most use of the most necessary enterprises. The majority of the shares measure that there is a need for more information about the company's position over the next few days and weeks. In addition to the conditions outlined in the bill's report, a greater proportion of the items under the economic and business proposals of a bill will be taken into consideration by the legislation on the implementation of economic impacts following a pandemic crown virus in the issue of 683, to the minister of a vessel to monitor the implementation of this provision. The committee shall submit a report on the project and submit it to the General. In addition, the more part suggests that enterprises with additional loans of federal responsibility are not permitted to pay interest to their owners or to buy their own stock as long as the loans are available. This is in harmony with the suggestion we see in the case of 683. The majority stress that the criteria presented in this report are fundamental and will be developed more closely in the financial and economic contracts of the secretary and the Secret Bank and that they will be submitted to the Commission for review before the contract is signed. The majority of the committee's proposals are based on the review and I think it is reasonable to believe that the whole committee has agreed on the changes proposed by the greater part, but it is not fully agreed on how far to go in this field. As I found out, at the beginning of the story, the budget bill and the synonym are interwoven. The draft proposal is about the investment initiative and how it will be implemented, where investment funding are so part of the budget bill. The majority of the two-change proposals for the utilities bill on this one. 1191 and 1192, in addition to suggesting a change in the synonym that occurs on a panel. 1193. On the roof. The 1191 is all the more complex changes in the budget. It's a total of 4,476 billion. K. There are 2,936 million of them. K. Because of the investment effort, it is cut to pieces into a new arrangement for the campaign. 1540 million. K. Then, in turn, 1 billion are divided into three groups of cases, to health care, where we have begun working at the cost of the epidemic; 400 million. K. is a single currency payment for micro-energy pensioners. This is the group that has the lowest improvement, and that is not different from the one that had gone in December and that was a supplement. This is a tax and inadequacy, a respectable president, and is called to the end of a case of 683. In such a situation, many groups are isolated, and these problems may add to them. We view mental health problems and a number of free associates. We had a fine conversation with mental - health professional who works hard to meet the needs of these groups under difficult circumstances. The committee decided to contribute 40 million to the project. The minister and the Department of Social Affairs have the greatest perspective on where the need is most urgent and where they can meet the number of activities that appear each day. Changes in the share of investment initiatives include in increasing additional contributions to research and innovation and creative articles, about 1,250 billion. K. There's also 510 million. K. increase in maintenance and improvements. That's 480 million. K. In new buildings, 300 million. K. on other infrastructure projects, 296 billion. K. for maintenance and restoration at airports and, finally, 100 million. K. on energy exchange and green solutions, a total of 2,936 million. K. I will not be able to make time, a respectable president, to discuss each of these matters, but we had a good conversation and cooperation with them on the committee. The majority of the items are entitled to these matters, financial and investment initiatives, and measures announced in this event, are not completed at this moment. Here, though, we are taking steps in the right direction to meet the ruling conditions. We need to deal with this situation, protect the economy, work in the country, the economy of the enterprises, and the people in common in fixed, safe steps, and work alike from the uncertainty, both the health sector in the presupervised and the economic challenges. I encourage all of us to consider all the measures required to correct them. I want at the end, a respectable president, to use this opportunity, and to thank the entire committee for their cooperation, the contribution of all members of the Committee. My understanding of this work on the Committee is that there are agreements on the issues we are about to agree with here as well as the changes, but naturally there are many who want to go further in this event. It's just opinions that should be respected and put up with. A number of projects are shown in the modifications of smaller items that will be on the program. I think it's a very good thing that they're being brought up here and that these ideas have been treated by this case. The Birgir of Þórarinsson sign in advance, which he will make clear in speech. Sæland Goland also writes under the opinion of the committee in advance, which is already recognized, that the action of the government does not complete with these matters. However, their agreement with the changes made by the greater part is the first step in the right direction and will be of great benefit in limiting the inevitable damage caused by the pandemic that causes the Covid-19 disease and would have wanted to see intense support for poor people and families right away. It is a fundamental human right that the State meets its basic needs for food, clothing, shelter, and necessary health care. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the changes I've made and stated in the committee's list of parts and in specific documents I've already referred to will be agreed on. Under the order of the centuries. Councilmen: Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Haraldur son of Benediktsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Páll Magnússon, Bjarkey Olsen, Gunnarsdóttir of Þórarinsson, in advance, and Inga Sæland Land, in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u73	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the chairman of a financial committee about the conditions of bridge loans. The bridge loan is one of the largest actions of the government. I wondered if the chairman of the budget board agrees with me that the company will be informed about the state-security of the bridges. This has not come up with what I know, but it's important that there's no hiding here. In my opinion, both the public and the rest of the companies who are not going to have Kingdom responsibilities have the right to know which competitive business theirs enjoys Kingdom responsibility. How important it is not to hide behind banking! I would like to have the political opinion of the chairman of the budget board and his mind on the factors, whether it is not possible to inform the public and the job life on which companies will enjoy this Kingdom responsibility. By means of it, the Icelandic public is taking on as many as 50 billion dollars. State-respecting companies in town. This needs to be on the table, Mr. President. That way, we'll secure equality and transparency. I think the Icelandic people have had enough of their gray arts and skirt cataholics. This would be a very simple way to ensure increased confidence in the operation. The question exists. A senator: Is he willing to support it, when the conditions of the bridge loans are going to be discussed on the budget, as I understood on the Committee before the weekend, that we set it as a requirement to inform which companies get a loan?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u74	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A member of the body asks a good question and has an opportunity to correct what I discussed in a talk made up of members of the committee. Naturally, in view of the financial breakdown of history, we discussed this at the branch office. You're right. A senator came in, it came about when we discussed the matter, and he was put in the language of No. 683, also, fully agreed that a special committee would be arranged to handle the management and ensure that everything on board, all listed and information and full transparency to the companies that will need this option. We are now to change only course of thought, and we are to trust credit institutions to use these resources, and we are to try to put full confidence in them all the way through. We are very aware that at the same time it takes a flexibility to make this decision happen, the situation is serious when a company is there to need a direct political support in such a form, or responsibility, let's say, rather, because it's a loan that the companies naturally pay back, and everything needs to be on the table. And it is also very important that the committee's committees are regularly informed about the surveillance of this special committee. We will have this discussion when the Federal Committee and the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs have already negotiated their terms and established a budgetary committee to discuss those conditions and this management.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u75	Mr. President. I appreciate it. The senator with regard to the idea that there has to be a full transparency and trust in the operation. As I understand why. A senator agrees that there will be informed about the companies who will enjoy their Kingdom responsibilities. If he can't necessarily correct it, if I've misunderstood him in this regard. I think it's important that this chair makes it sound that the head of the legal committee makes it clear that we need to inform which companies are responsible for the state. We need to learn something from experience. After the collapse of the bank, there was a lot of discussion about the authority of banking institutions on employment, choosing which company would live and which company, so to speak, would die. Here, it is of utmost importance that there will be transparency, trust, and equality. It cannot be guaranteed unless it is clearly informed which companies are borrowing because it, of course, affects their competitiveness with other companies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u76	V.E.G. President. There were no additional questions in the second answer to why. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafurs, Ólafur of Ágústsson, perhaps more of an accusation. All I can make up for is the equipment that will be on these loans, as soon as there has to be some flexibility in the light of uncertainty and serious status, that I reviewed it in a talk that over the next few weeks and, of course, months will need to gather information about the situation and they will appear. Of course, it is much more healthy to have credit institutions that know their customers carefully review which companies are in the more serious position that they have to use these resources, while it is also important that we have a transparency, equal to trust and trust and everything on board. We will certainly apply it to a financial committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u77	Mr. President. I have two questions. It says that the past few years were well handled, but much has been said about the debt we have covered. It is not surprising when you can shovel a lot of money into the hole you see starting with the concrete projects, the inner debt you are in, instead of a much more upbuilding future project. France was e.g. to report four billion contributions to innovation, which are slightly higher than the government package that came from the government despite the improvements made by the committee. I think your priorities are strange. Of course, if we're going to catch a highly predictable unemployment problem, we're going to try to stop it from becoming unemployment to begin with, but we're going to see the evolution as it is, and the way to catch it almost by innovation, to create new jobs, and to try not to go back into the same gear as before. I'm totally scratching my head over another thing. I don't quite understand my priorities. The bill's report says that contributions are being made to projects that will start no later than September 1, 2020, and that will be completed no later than April 1, 2021. I don't understand why you can't start with a project that just starts in the summer, even though they don't run out on April 1st, 2021. We expect, then, to be a year late for the work that would provide us with many opportunities and that could start right now. This is the most obvious problem of any project being proposed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u78	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn wife, Gunnarsson's Leví, is a pleasant question. First, I want to step toward the debt of wood that we truly face. It's a fact and we haven't reached our tails with it. We are often given very careful reviews from the Society of Industrial Affairs. I'll just let me mention it, and we'll have a good conversation with that organization. They have a very good overview of this, and they put it very well. I could quote some numbers, but I'll pass it on. I think this deposit of infrastructure will lead to most of the major growth in transport. This is reflected in the latter part of the question, Is it wise in these circumstances to highlight innovation, research and evolution and perhaps direct funds into a fund where we can say that there is a measure of confidence that there is full equality and perhaps distribution is reasonable and even beyond the country, etc. This is illustrated by the changes made by the Commission where we go to the highest level in research, innovation, and creative fields. I mean, we've been pretty agreed on this show. With regard to the criteria I call what is stated in the synonym, there are 75 billion investment initiatives in the current budget. A large number of projects are involved. We may have to put up with it during these weeks when we are getting through this temporary situation that slows down in all projects and projects. Yet, there are truly tasks to be done or are about to start, and we need to be careful about meeting these challenges when we get the job done with what we're going to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u79	A respectable president. I don't want to be too quick on these issues about innovation. The government contributes 1.75 billion for innovation in this investment initiative on the budget bill, but the committee adds up to 1.25 billion. We have a total of 3 billion in a number of different funds, including 700 million in Technical Development Funds and Business Associations, notes that of the projects that received the highest rate of last intervention, less than one third of the projects received funds. About 70% of the projects remain of those with higher grades. It pointed out that the industrial body of technology could easily take 3 billion more just for that project, and the addition is 700 million. You wonder why we won't take an opportunity like this and go for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u80	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the question. I share my opinion. A senator may be the only one to be accused of putting extra money in the Research Fund, Investment Fund, and Technology Fund. We have relatively low success rates. Many well - rated jobs have not been met, but we are a little bound to the Senate arrangement in that we are trying to figure out what is involved in the standards set out. And I've said repeatedly that this is not final action. As members of the Committee, we can examine the position, the assignment, and the results. I concluded my last talk saying that we would reach the goals of the proposal, which, of course, are responding rapidly to this situation. [[The president calls.]] That is why the criteria for this year and the next year are set, and they also need to be man - made step - by - step so as to create jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u81	A respectable president. We're dealing with the investment campaign and the budget bill, and I'd like to ask you why. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson. A contribution of 20,000 will be made to the microbubbles. which is good, just great, but at the same time, 20,000 were raised to 30,000 child - savings because of their high income. I would've said 50,000 bucks. ... andif we put it in context of this rescue package, we're talking about 0.23/4.3%, and if we put the same thing to the older citizens who would also need it, we're in over 0.5% of the total package that's not much. Because he said it was the first package, I really hope that these people are the first in the order of the next pack. Then I'd like to ask about the bank tax. Now he has dropped 11 billion. How is it to make sure that he makes sure that he makes sure that his business and the public is involved? We can see that if you owe your loans - now money is at the minimum in history at the Secret Bank - but for people to be able to enjoy them in their loans, you need to make them a debt. Some people have money and they can't do it. I know the worst in the world is those who have an apartment loan from an apartment loan, top interest plus insurance. I'm afraid of that too, and I'm asking if we're in our room if inflation starts to stop these increases if the house's prices start to rise.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u82	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson for very good questions and many. I tried to come up with something in advance, but all these questions were raised by the Committee. First, I'd like to say about the social security and social support that a monotonous member of the Committee was to match that group with micro-energy pensions, which have the lowest income level, in this situation when it comes to social security. That's all there was to it. Regarding older citizens, we were brought to our home by the National Association of older citizens. It is all too important that we accept rapidly the social and child-friendly bill for social support to the elderly. It is a committee that gave better work to embrace the lowest income level there. Another committee is working on a similar bill for the next two. I got it. I got it. A senator and all of us to put our arms around it by accepting the bills and winning them at the council. With regard to child reform, there was a lot of debate about child development, and I appreciate that there was a way of compromise, an excellent landing in that case. This is such an amazing situation we face, that for people who even had fine income during the past year, we know nothing today, i.e. in a number of groups, and what income to make up for. It was thought that the operation would be simple. I can say that in general we want to make some improvements in those most in need. [[The president calls.]] I've got to get to the interest and the bank tax in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers that were great. I believe that, and I trust that we agree, but I took this commission for the 10% older citizens who are in the worst position. It would be very good if such a call was also made to the desperate who are in a similar situation, that they too were to be mapped and put forth good things. I have also been thinking about this because the banks now speak of 35 billion and 35 billion. I believe this is kind of the way that there are 55 billion from the state and 15 billion from the banks because the state has just about two banks. It is a significant risk to the State, and the question is, How well we will spend the money and whether it will not be carefully observed and will make sure that this really comes to those who need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u84	V.E.G. President. Thanks for the good questions. Only with regard to seniors would I want to point out that this committee is here in the strength of social support and security, putting 40 million people on a mental - health crisis, and that is totally independent of age. We know that insulation of older citizens is high, so it should be used in that assignment. Then we have 100 million. K. campaigns to control the homeless. It has long referred to ideologies that turn to a roof above the head as the first thought. The mission has never been properly started, but the committee agreed to try properly in these circumstances. There are 100 million there. In the case of invalids, a financial committee is responding. A number of committees have been able to deal with the system that is wrapped up in the social security and biofuels. There has never been a powerful change for everyone. That is why we are sometimes trying to cope with such an action. The whole committee agrees to do so, and hopefully we will succeed in taking this system to the advantage of a revised system for the benefit of all. Regarding the bank tax, it is well stated in a white book and elsewhere that we cannot directly guarantee by law or by some invitation to increase, but we rely on it and have reasoned that this could lead to a decrease in expenses and interest in it, and we trust in it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator, chairman of the budget board, would like to use this opportunity to thank him for his excellent cooperation with the Commission in the processing of these proposals. Sadly, though, the agreement you had requested for further action was not met, there was an excellent agreement on the procedures that were under attack. We should not forget to thank you for what is good, and the director of the legal committee at that job was exemplary. What I'm wondering and are underlying in my amendment of the government's campaign is that the number of economists, numbers of stakeholders, industrial organizations, business agencies, and others have pointed out that this is by no means enough. An international comparison shows that we are semimissing to the rest of the North countries in government action. We can see, of course, that the only thing that matters in this context is that if not more of these month - to - month improvements are going on, there are probably a third of thousands of others who are losing their jobs. This is a very serious crisis. That's why I have a few simple questions to ask. Councilman, chairman of the budget board: Are the measures we are discussing here sufficient, in the opinion of the chairman of the legal committee? Is he aware of any further action under government investments that this year will not take place? This discussion has repeatedly stated that more would be done. I'm asking you, when? That's what I'm talking about. A senator, a chairman of the legal committee, knows when the government will introduce them, and what this involves? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u86	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for those challenging questions, they're really good. First, though, I want to thank you for the words and use the opportunity to thank you. A senator who contributed a great deal of good things, including in the changes he makes with less parts. I also thank other members, it was fun working on this case because cooperation, suggestions, and thinking were strong. Regarding whether these measures are sufficient or need more, I allow myself to state that they are not enough. It's not final. More is needed. The uncertainty, however, is very strong. I always feel that when uncertainty abounds and situations are not quite so that you know how the step gets down the steps and takes more, shorter, and safer steps. I've encouraged my good government and urged the council and all the others. Senators to consider this. I want to see more money in this thing, and sooner than later. We should not have to wait until the fall for a big amount of money. That's my opinion, and I've made it my point. Senator wants me to know if I'm aware of any further action. I know it's all in my mind every day, but I haven't been particularly informed about what is right now or when it will be. But I do use all the opportunities, and I say so here, to encourage it, and then we're really working in harmony with the government laws when the executives bring this kind of money and ask the Senate to be authorized to go into action before the execution has been carried out instead of waiting and bringing one large amount of funds and saying, "We did this, don't you want to accept it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u87	President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It may not be surprising that I agree with it. Senator. It's not enough, there's more to do. It has been pointed out that we are in a very large debt of wood. There are up to 300 billion people in total investment needs in the interior. It is surprising, then, that there is no further work in the government's assessment that is practical to attack than 10 billion plus/minus on a government program. It's also surprising, and more disappointed me, that no more is being put into innovation and technology companies than it is by government proposals because money is so easy to get out. It makes it so easy to raise the reimbursement and reimbursement levels for research and development costs. It is so easy to increase funds for various research funds. [[The president calls.]] The advantage of knowledge is that it will never be lost, although we often run blindly into the ocean with exactly what soon - to - be - a - day job creation will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u88	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator, and thank you so much for his questions. In terms of assessing the extent of action compared to other countries, I think we must only breathe through our noses. The task is tricky, we have to face up to what is in comparison, compare the measures, and what standards, if that is, for example. the scope of the budget or gross domestic product. I think we're going to go to that exact job. I hope to see some money soon, I'm not sure everyone will be very happy that I say this here, but I want to see it. There were very good ideas that we did not have time to determine whether we would agree that the Senate arrangement and the investment plan, as set out and set out by it. Payback roof as good as any. For example, a senator has talked about being part of innovation, research, and evolution, and we are going to consider it, calling for information about its effect and trying to see if it is unwise to go to it at this point. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u89	Mr. President. I don't have to say, like other members of Congress, that it's obvious that there's an Icelandic career going through unprecedented times. It is clear that the economic and social infrastructure will be tested a great deal. Of course, the union supports all the good actions of the government in which they are found, but as with all the parties in a government stand at a council, there have been some points that and a number of stakeholders are not done enough. We know that there will be more to be done than we can do in the opposition. Similarly, in the United States, we contribute to the committee's list of wholesome ideas that could simply help Icelandic homes and employment in this condition. It may first need to bear in mind that the biggest part of this 230 billion dollars is the one that most important. The government's package of action is only a payoff on public expenses, on credit, or on the assessment of their special property. If we break it down just a little, we will see that the real injection of the Kingdom Fund today is about one third of these 230 billion, 60 to 170 billion. That's all. That number is less than 7% of government spending and is thus effective in this condition. I think everybody sees it. Delotte made a comparison between the actions of the government and the actions of other nations around us, where we are on the lower side. In some cases the government's package of action is half that of other governments. We always hear this when we say, "Hey, we need more now. ' Now it's a piece of ice. They say, "It'll come later." Now, however, we need to respond. I know that things can't be done right now, but there really is more to be done now. It is also absurd to claim that this is the greatest economic activity in history, as it has been claimed. That's not true at all. We who sat at a council in the bank collapse know it's a huge claim. But it's not all that matters, so let's just speak good English and be nothing to blow anything, not to belittle what is being done. Of course, many positive things are done, and I agree with what the chairman of the legal committee said, and it was a fine meeting and conversation within the legal committee, and then we wanted to do more. That's where we separated ways. We're on a budget board and we're sitting on this side of the room, we have the legal authority. It doesn't always mean coming in this public address and saying, "I wish I could do more. This is what a member of the board will hear, and then I'll say, "You can do more." You don't have to go up to Eaglehvo and get the green light from the Minister. This is the legislature, and it's got the budget. If you want to do more, do more. Of course, I know that it is impossible to deal with the readyness of certain bridges or roads. I'm no expert on bridges or roads, but a simple way to deal with the situation is to add to innovation, add to the innovation fund. I've said it's just a note to double the technology fund. We could do that. It would also be a very clever suggestion. It includes both genders. More money is needed in a research fund. These are funds that the job life puts great emphasis on, and for this crisis, less than one third of the projects applied for sponsoring technology fund gains, i.e. The one with the highest grades. There's a lot of projects out there that just need funding from the government to get started. That's how we get the kicker. In this way, we will be able to get out of the decade where commercial life is now going. It would have been slow enough for the greater part to put more money into it. There are 300 million involved, but that is far too small. I would've liked to see a better-looking raise in, like, one. This treasure, or the research fund, or the Wende. These economic procedures are politics. That's why we should deal with it. We in the state of government are trying to keep the government, and that's our job. We're together in this end, we'll be here later today, the government side, back to the government proposal. But do you know what the government groups do? Do people really think that they intend to support our suggestions? No, all our suggestions will be taken today. That's the whole point. On the side of the board, we are expected to show responsibilities and solidarity. We also do so, we support the government's practical suggestions, we participated, and of course we have a full share in the commission work, and we are trying to get things through. Why, then, that the government groups would at one time look out only for their folders and agree to the suggestions offered by the government? We're in this boat together. It's a small country, and there's no need to fall into political holes, let alone in a time of emergency and pandemic. If there's ever any reason to turn pies together, it's now. Right or left doesn't matter now. Many of these measures, the vast majority of the government's options up to 30 billion, are suggestions made by the three government groups, an independent party, a forward party, and a left green, can be very short in their heart as the stakeholders have called upon. There are no political bombs involved, these are simply practical suggestions that could be applied even now, whether in innovation, research, or transportation, investment, or well - being. As everyone knows, these three groups will make every suggestion here this afternoon and tonight, which is sad, but we in the opposition are to show responsibility and solidarity and be on the side of our government, etc. The government of Iceland, and accept everything that comes from it. We try to improve the situation, and that is, of course, our objective in the committees. Mr. President. It is expected that these economic downturns will become deep. The representatives of the tourism agency, which came to the budget committee, described the situation as a disaster. They said that almost all tourism companies are technically bankrupt, but there is a demand for other services in other sectors as well. Thus, land production will be cut to a great degree, but at the time of the tragedy, there will be financial failures. It's been only 11 years since we last went through a very deep crisis. According to the United States, the top priority of the government is to protect the lives and health of the public, number one, two, three, four and five. It is to be a guide in all procedures of the government, and this is to be a complete agreement. But when it comes to the economic response of the government, we deal with it. Economically, critical times are ahead. Most of the more than three times as many jobs as were in the 2008 banking system. Much of this work is now in danger, and we must not forget that 10,000 people were out of work for this shock. We're getting quite a hit on ourselves, and that's why it's so important to take advantage of the government. The vast majority of experts and all political groups, notice, all political groups from left to right, agree to use the government in such conditions as Keynes would have liked. When the demand is drawn together in a private market, we create demand by using our government, our tax money, even at the cost of sliding. The 2009 State Fund, after the collapse, was 216 billion. If we make that number in today's crowns, it's more than 300 billion bucks. A limp. Of course, it is going to a large angle. Of course, the government has to go into borrowing and financing the proposals of the government parties, but it is also the proposals of the government. We'll do it when we're so tight. We'll get out of this anyway. We need to be realistic, we need to face the situation. It's not just a problem in Iceland, of course not, but the problem can be serious in Iceland because we are very busy in tourism. Travel is a similar proportion of land production, and banking services were 2008. Pay attention. I'm worried about the crown. I'm always worried about the crown. History shows that you're supposed to worry about her. If the crown's gang drops, it'll always mean people's repercussions and inflation shots. Then the insurance will go in and raise the house's loans. I know we have a very large currency supply. That's good. I know the homes' debt is much lower than 2008 as well as the corporate debt, but we still need to be aware of this. History shows that in such a situation, the dollar will yield. She's already dropped 10% since her New Year's. I think it's even dropped 24% since the government took over so that when the gang breaks down the imported goods. We're moving in so much. I know the oil prices have dropped, etc. but just keep an eye on the crown because it has such an effect on everything. So, of course, there is a particular concern that some of the interiors were weakened by the shock, as was the case with the medical system. Do you remember before the virus arrived in Iceland? What was the hottest case in this room? It was the health system. Words such as a medical emergency were heard from the emergency room. There is concern, and now the health system is overturning, and it works very well. The staff on the front line deserves the falcon by January 1. They work in an incredibly difficult situation where health care professionals even endanger themselves. At the time of their return, they can infect or infect their immediate family. I know this room also has an agreement to do good with the health system, but we in the government situation do not just propose to encourage the government to negotiate with the medical professions. Imagine, nurses don't even have a collective agreement, they have an agreement with the government at this time of all times. The same can be said of several other health groups. Similarly, at the administration site, healthcare professionals and staff in a social service that has worked in the care of patients with Covid receive special payment. Other countries are doing this. I think it's a smart way. The majority contributes to the monopoly of disability. We support it. In fact, we want to expand it, and we also want to make sure that we have one payment for an older citizen. We can afford it. It's not a promise to the air, just not at all. That is something we especially need to consider. I'm only going to run over what's positive in the government's operations package, such as the campaign everybody wins, repaying the valuable tax for industrial work. That's a positive step. This is a step that includes The party was after the collapse of the bank. Of course, the children's benefits are positive. I don't think any group has talked about child reforms as much as the Conspiracy, especially Oddný Harðardóttir. We're going to have to spit a whole lot more into the child-replacement system. Not to be overlooked is that one fourth was lost from the child - welfare system in the past because of the decrease in pay and the level of revenue has been observed. The child aid listed in this kit is 3 billion. What is 3 billion? That's a 0.3% increase in the state budget. Of course, a man is celebrating every cent the government puts on a kid's family, but I don't think that much. The gift letter contained in this package for the purchase of a domestic tourist service sounds good, but it's a little busy. It's 5,000 apiece. I still think it's a pretty good idea. We need to promote Icelandic tourism, we have to go back to Iceland. All of us need to be diligent in traveling around our country and enjoying what they have to offer. But I restate what I said in answer to the head of the Committee: We have to inform which companies get their mortgages because they have 70% national responsibility. In fact, it is assumed that a large part of these loans can be lost, up to 50 billion. This is one of the biggest actions of the government, and it doesn't work here that business can enjoy this money, the money loans that are federally committed, and it's not informed which company this is. The public has the right to do so, but especially with companies that are competitive with perhaps the companies who are enjoying this payment. All the ups on the table in this respect, transparency and equations. I'm glad that the chairman of the budget board is going to take a look at this with us on the committee on occasion. The damages are positive. They've been taken care of. Notice what happened then. In view of the way it came from the minister, the United Nations greatly improved matters. Let us also raise the council. We're at least something to do to us on this side of this room, we're improving things that come from the government. Another problem that was added to the affairs of the United States of Congress was to ban payment on the companies that have a budget in the form of bridge loans. It didn't come from the Minister, it came from the Senate. The members of all groups supported it, so let's adjust it so that we too can give each one a little pat on the shoulder at a time. Of course, there are positive suggestions for making more adjustments in the legal committee. There are many factors that result from the opposition to government, but of course, in conversation with the council members. There are health institutions, 100 million in particular, to strengthen resources for the homeless. That was the least of all. paritaprevir Sæland harei, who held it up, just to feed it. Especially do I welcome the 40 million people who are put on the job of coping with anxiety and loneliness. We see that people are becoming isolated from this condition, older citizens, and people are experiencing a number of spiritual problems, so we need to reach out to people in a rudimentary way. I welcome this proposal very much. I welcome the monopolitans and the rest of the transportation program. We put money on climate and increase the emphasis. The research fund gets 300 million. I just think it's too small for the Research Fund and the Wende too. I think it's too small, it's such an easy way for us to show our cards a little bit. I'm worried about reimbursement for the moviemaking that's not getting anything right now. It is being announced that there is more to it than that. I've held several talks that we should raise up our culture and art, which are especially now taking action. One of the future parishions is this field. Every dollar we put in culture and art returns. I once made a report on the interest of movie and television markets in Iceland, and there were some striking numbers on how much it paid to put money on television and movies in Iceland. This is where we find strength to produce vegetables and restorative funds. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farms carried on great airs. They're supposed to support cultural value. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson made a suggestion for Fragile settlements that came in here, etc. Hv. paritaprevir Of course, Willum Þór Þórsson had his suggestions, so I think all members of the budget have contributed something. Hv. Friðbertsson Of course, a proposal for the flight was made by Nery Traittirsson and should be shed on it. Of course, things got better, but it's not gonna work. I know that most members of Congress agree completely with that. This was the adjustment of the majority of the items we support, even though we are in smaller parts. Of course, the original layer can be viewed, and there are also many positive projects. Here's a nice list for people who are interested in finding out what to do. Remember, if we take the gift letter and the children's aid, these are the sum of the changes made by a legal committee of 20How25 billion. That's not enough. I'm not saying this to the point of having some premise. There's just no mood for a classic political offer. My words must not be interpreted as "thinking. " The thought is sincerely to face this difficult situation right now. I'm convinced that we can get a list of projects that can be attacked now beyond what is proposed by the greater part. I'm convinced that if we hear from the research fund, they're ready to take on more money. I am convinced that those who work in the best interests of themselves will see the opportunity to obtain extra money from the government to meet the epidemic in particular or, for example, the epidemic. build a nursing home that would create both work and solve emergency problems, but especially the relief of local medical institutions. Now I'm going to cover a few additional operations, just positive ideas. We need to think a little more about our homes. It's very corporate. Of course, I know people work for companies, and I know we have jobs to do. Many jobs are in danger. We can't forget the houses, though. We were critical of that in our day, after the collapse of the bank. I know it all right. Let's think of the homes to face this crisis. I'm especially concerned about the homes where people lose their jobs. People can't spend months without money. We live in an expensive country. We are told that individuals who need to be granted the right to freeze their loans without cost, not let the banks make money because they can freeze their loans, or they can get deadlines in some way. We need to keep an eye on it. Let's wake up the banks. We happen to have two of the three banks. I know they're independent, and that's a tenant policy and something like that, but let's keep in mind that two of Iceland's three businesses are banks. The social responsibilities of loan institutions may be appealing. The loan agencies are supposed to be responsible in this condition. We need to think about the soloists, the micro companies, the little companies. They are 70% of Icelandic commercial life. They are responsible for 70% of their jobs and 70% of their salary. The big companies get their way through. They have a direct discussion with the Ministry of finance. Business organizations think of big companies. This shows us how we can do so. We mustn't forget the small companies, companies that don't get a loan. The temptation of public pay will not save them. One way or another, I would like to see the direct strength to such companies. Let's just talk about the stores we're in for ice. There are companies that have lost total income and the market is wiped out. It's not just the tourism services, it's also a company that is forced to close because of the government's proposal. Not many talk about that company. A number of companies have been forced to close off the protests made by the competent authorities, who, of course, are to be respected. We obey Víðir, but we think about it. Not many companies can live alone, two, three months with no income. Let's look into a fold-up pay like an insurance bill. A smaller section of five groups suggests temporarily canceling small companies' insurance fees. What about temporarily examining the ban on the full - time operation of those who suffer from problems, businesses, and people? These are more basic ways of dealing with the problem, whether it is family, job, or small business. Let's watch out the little companies with one, two, three and up to ten employees. Businesses with seven or ten employees are companies who always get left out. I've only gone over innovation. I have previously said in this chair that our main route up out of this state is innovation. We're here to emphasize innovation, research, and green investments. Let's pick up the cash I had earlier. We need to build up. The story behind Meniga, one of the most progressive and interesting business in Iceland, is that people founded Meniga after they lost their job at the bank collapse. Many people are now about to lose their jobs, have ideas that can grow into big companies if they are taken into one way or another by government. The public has so much to do. In the innovation market, the education market, as it were, will be a market failure. If we are to leave it to a private person to do so less so that the right or left doesn't matter, the State is to enter the part of the market that becomes a so-called market failure. I'm going back to flaunt the great proposals of the government that are made from five different categories, the Central Party, the Union, the Pirates, the restoration and the Gang of the people. We did not choose to be in a position of government. It was the government groups who chose our lot, but we, unlike us, managed to pack a pack of 30 billion. We can show them solidarity even if we are ideological political opposers. We were able to show the maturity and cooperation of putting on a paper list of 30 billion that exactly answers to what homes and businesses are calling for. Come with us on this journey, fine tribunes. As I mentioned at the beginning of my talk, you expect us to agree with everything from you, and we'll do it as I know. Why don't you accept something from us? I know we've got a lot of things going on in the Committee, I want to keep it up. Some of them have improved because of us and in good cooperation, but we can do more, and that doesn't mean to invite us up again and again: I wish I could do more than I can do. Yeah, yeah, yeah. A member of the board, you can do more because you have the power. I've only mentioned unemployment. I'm particularly worried about student pros. We just have to check them out. The student's job prospects are falling apart for spring and summer. Think only of that group. Of course, we're thinking this list of actions from the sexes. Jobs are about to be lost, which may not be the case with concrete or road construction. Yes, in some cases, but not always. We need a wide lens when it comes to these actions. The government situation contributes to an additional 9 billion on road work and maintenance. If it is possible to speed up the project, we will take the Southland, West, and other roads. We want to put power in the footpaths and bikepaths and in organizational matters in the capital area. We also have a number of suggestions, large and small. You can make fun of the little suggestions, but it's important in our investments and real estate. These are all the factors that can be considered relatively fast. We're still in March, I know some things require preparation, but some things just don't make any preparations. Some of them are just ready. I hope this can set the council on fire, that they'll be willing to look at some of these proposals. These are a number of steps that would be very helpful. Everyone would get challenged if we got involved if they're worried about that kind of shit. I've only talked about the welfare issues. We have four chapters of the government's stand, including the birth of the most recent chapter. It is the second most important chapter that we have to cope with and cope with. Then come the welfare and finally property and other investments. This 30 billion of our stuff won't do, I'll figure it out, but let's say, let's face it, let's face it. The government's package? We support him, so our package is on top of her. We need to do more, and we need to do it now. I know we'll always get the answer: It'll come back later, but I want to do it now. I think that's what I need. I believe in the collapse of the bank we've moved too slow. Some things take longer than that, I realize that, but there's a lot we can use now. We received fine paper from rural areas in the capital area and from rural areas in the South, where the problem is huge, about measures that could be taken by the administration of the State. In the welfare phase, I just wanted to say what we want to say because we leave, for example. ... tothefencetoU.S.A. That's the least of it. paritaprevir Sæland Happyland, which held it up, it showed us that the epidemic's self-priority of the United States has collapsed. Similarly, families of long - suffering children have pointed out that they had a huge loss of income because of the situation. Of course, the entire health system will be at high cost. We'll put money in it. That's not going to do anything at all. We want to put money in interest of interest and housing. There's nothing in these suggestions here. It is a clever suggestion that involves low - income management individuals. It's a long, good list I ask of you. Senators watching with open eyes. Another factor we need to keep in mind is the situation of our rural society. Especially do we need to think of those in our local community who feel these contractions, who feel the pain of people's suffering. That could be the long talk, but I can see my time is now out. In such an economic emergency, it is important to think fast, but it is also necessary to think outside the box, think of original and reasonable ideas. [[The president calls.]] We're supposed to call these ideas to the table from the public and medium-sized companies that feel this loss on their own.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u90	V.E.G. President. I'm going to make it clear right now that I'm just gonna come up in a previous answer, one answer, because I'm not coming up here to cross one or anything in a positive state of grace. Senator. We had a very good discussion on the committee, and he did well. So can I say about the changes in existing forms. We tried to look at some of those proposals at this brief time, and I'd like to say this is where we got the president of the senior National Association. I've referred to a case leading up to the council that goes higher in sums, but the motion includes this lowest-set group. Then the president urged us to complete these matters before the council. I'm ready to go that way. There's a lot of other things here. I know it's all there is. A senator said that the economic situation is correct, but that discussion must wait for a better time. First and foremost, I want to use this opportunity to thank you. A senator who cooperates with a member of the Committee. The commission covered a great deal of cooperation and a number of assignments that we carried out. I reiterate that this is not a question of my attitude toward being able to do things. Like what? A senator pointed out that there is a willingness to do many things, but what is wise to do and how we view projects in today's vast uncertainty. To illustrate, a large part of the government's payroll comes through the part - time work route. There have been 22 billion committees, but there can be much more. Hv. A senator came into Keynes, it's going to be an automatic swing through the state's budget. [[The president calls.]] There's a lot of things I can't thank you for. A member of the council who cooperates with us and has a fine speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u91	Mr. President. Thank you so much for your time. I love them, and I'd love them too, since we've become a coven. A senator and president of the Committee for Fine Cooperation and cooperation on the Committee. I know he's very helpful in trying to stop him. I know he's got a lot of balls in the air at the same time. I reiterate that I am his ally in pressing on further projects and investments. I know why. A senator is also my ally in it. We all are, no matter where we are, because now is the time for solidarity, though we in the opposition, want to show that there is more to be done. These are difficult times for everyone. Like what? A senator was uncertain in terms of financial and financial matters. We can see that 20,000 people have entered the partial improvement system. Can you imagine? The number of public employees is 25,000, reminds me, and 20,000 are already in the subsidence system, which means that the government pays 75% of its pay. A 1 percent increase in unemployment is 6.5 billion. Unemployment takes off very fast, making this a very strange and challenging time before it is going to be. The legal committee and the chairman of the legal committee are to meet that position. As they say, the situation will get worse before it gets better. It is important to remember that she will get better. We have here the resources, the powerful companies that build intelligently, so immensely humanized in all the economic darkness that may be partly ahead, there is always light. Let's just stick them together, tending what's important, caring for the homes, fostering innovation in studies, art, culture. Let us listen to one another as well as the other. A senator took care of senior citizens. Let us hear older people, hear those who are now isolated from social activity, hear those who are under a contagion, or have to be infected. Let us be concerned about our fellow man and look at him and see how we feel because it's what matters, how we feel about this wonderful society now going through a difficult time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u92	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to come in on a few points just to correct the discussion. There are not 30,000 employees in Icelandic tourism. I think it was mentioned in the case of the head of the employment agency a few days ago that it was spoken of as 23,000. It's always good to have the numbers correctly when we're working on these big cases. There has been a considerable debate over the economic development fund and how to deal with the problem. I have been considering this following our careful discussion with the committee. In 2010, at prices of 2019, 929 million were set up in the Technical Development Fund. Last year, 2019, there were 2,333 million. The addition is now 400 million by means of the government's contributions on the bill for financial support and the addition of a greater proportion of legal committees to more than 3 billion. More than 30% of the years are added to the Technical Development Fund in order to be maintained. Similar rates are seen in reimbursements to companies due to research and such factors, which have also grown dramatically in recent years. We see a large increase in those proportions. The investment plan currently appears to contain 23 billion, 15 billion from the government, 5 billion from the C-part of the business and the public, and through a greater part of the budget right now, we are adding just less than 3 billion. Then there are 23 billion, apparently an additional 800 - year work will be added through the investment plan. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u93	Mr. President. I really care about numbers, and my talk about a number of direct jobs in the tourism service is correct. You can go into the Haguen site and see that there are more than 29,000 jobs, I actually said 30,000. There are numbers from The Habitat about a number of direct jobs in the tourism service, so I'll keep what I said about the crowd. But let's not argue about it. We've got a lot of work to do in the travel service, and part of them isn't in this number, they're out of the system. We know that. Many jobs in tourism are in grave danger. A senator is as worried about it as I am, I know it, and it will be difficult for this article. For the second time in ten years, Iceland's main work gets an enormous blow. 2008 was the financial sector we all planned to become rich in. Now it's a tourist service that gets a hell of a blow. As I was able to do so earlier, much more than just travel, since the demand has been a success. I've got a budget 2020 enclosing here. This government reduced funding for development from 2018 to 2020 by 20%. I know that we are now adding to 700 million, but prior to this collapse the government had decided to reduce contributions to technology funds. This is very clear on page 22. 69, drop in Technical Development Fund until the next five years. The same can be said of the Research Fund and the Inn Fund. The reduction in movie reimbursement is 30% between 2019 and 2020. Now the situation is different, I know it, and the government is trying to add, but the Technical Development Fund has a budget of over 2 billion. There's not much of the budget. It would have been a slow game to triple that fund because of the demand for his capital. Remember, only one third of the works that get the highest degree of technology is donated from that fund. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a useful resource, especially in a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u94	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. As for traveling overseers, I feel that it is quite unfair to compare it with the banks. Based on the proportion of land production, tourism is about 8%, similar to the sea route today. I think it's going to come back in a big way over the next few years. There is a tendency to do so within the historical field of travel. A consideration of major events that have occurred in global or international tourism in some countries as a result of atrocities or such factors shows that it is incredibly tenacious. The information I have on the Technical Development Fund is that my donations have increased at a high price of 2019 four years back, to some 2,300 million. She's been there, the index has eaten it down by a few million, but the inflation is so low today that we don't have large amounts of money. This year the amount to Technical Development Fund goes over 3 billion, as the data show. That's for sure. Whether they are high school students or college students, I am concerned about the pros'prospects for young people in the summer. Making a project for young people during the summer is of utmost importance. We examined some of the committee's features, such as the New Creation Fund of students, the fencework at Vega, and forestry, and our ideas. I agree that it is extremely important that we succeed there. In other words, I don't want to compare travel services with banks 10 to 12 years ago in terms of economic issues. I don't think we're in any other business now than we are. It's short-term, and it's going to be okay in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u95	Mr. President. I'm not necessarily comparing travel services to banks. I'm making an economic comparison, especially in view of the fact that we can take advantage of the pathetic experiences we have from the collapse of the bank. There is a tool chest that the government used. Some worked well, but some of them worked tragicly. Let us pass the tragedy and make good use of what worked. The part-change process we're using right now is an old way. Remuneration of merit tax is an old way. Putting the money in innovation is the way we left behind a bank crash. Then the government set up a special green investment plan under the criteria of the green economy which the government after that ideal government put in a drawer. Split the dust from this, build a professional life. I know the travel service will rise up from this, but even though it's hard now while we're in the wreck, let's also let us look to the future and see what professional life we want to see. I don't want to be the politician who chooses which professions to live and which isn't. That's not my job at all. I want to be a politician who makes a general framework, stability in the business environment, where companies become the initiatives of the people of the country, people with smart ideas based on human culture, creation, art, technology, etc., people of all ages and genders. Therefore, I would like to create a much stronger framework for the innovation environment. It's not just a phrase to say, "Advanced creation." We're here to promote the innovation fund, the innovation environment, the Research Fund and the Wende. It will return to you in a great way. Let's reimburse movie reimbursement. Let's try to get the assignments back when they start. Of course, it adds human life, but it adds income - making jobs, which ensures a stronger welfare system. Let us look to the future, think about what type of employment we want to build for the future, do so in general, but now is the time to support our own delinquency. [[The president calls.]] Since we now need employment on the State, it is important that we show it by our actions. We can certainly do so if we succeed in agreeing with some of the proposals of the government today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u96	A respectable president. We should always be looking to the future and see how we got there. This is especially important when we look ahead to some sort of downturn. In the matters we talk about here, the first question is, Why not start with the current task that can be started immediately and used in the future and that does not have to run out, e.g. April 1, 2021, as expected? If we do not, we will be postponing such assignments for a year. The work that supports the government's investment campaign is certainly needed. It's been called after a flight in Akureyri, a highway in Egls National Airport, a bridge of gradification, a road construction, walkways in peaceful lands, and things like that in recent years. Overcrowding, Digital Iceland and a lot of projects that have been calling in years but to date have ended down the government priority list. An emergency was needed to finally fulfill this vital assignment. Who knows how many more years would have gone by until these projects had gone to bed if things had gone their separate ways? There's the problem, in the routine. He'll be particularly obvious in the down cycle. You see, he's out of his mind. It has become as out - of - date as a fuel - powered explosive engine, which certainly returns us from A to B, but through the related pollution and waste of resources. We need a new drive in our community, new, environmental and sustainable drive. That power is available for us, e.g. with a new constitution and a prosperous economy, and most not least by efforts in innovation. A respectable president. I signed it under the majority opinion of the financier, but because of technical difficulties, because I made a special effort to make an investment, I became awfully strange and technically saw I'm not at a committee party much more because of the financial situation, even though I was supposed to do it and so supplied it with a committee. I just want to be clear, in my spirit. At least I had a few things to do. The first and chief warning I have is why I can sign the committee's opinion over my head. At the end of the Commission's opinion, it shows that the Commission wishes that this bill will not be completed by the government's action, that the projects that are funded in this budget are just the first steps to meet the problems facing us. Although I have comments on several of those projects, I can sign that at least must start somewhere. Another reason why I sign the committee's opinion, because I can't technically sign it, is because there was a spirit of cooperation on the committee. He's important. To want at least the most obvious holes in the bill are very valuable and important. Maybe more on that later. A third reason why I sign this committee opinion is that I view the cooperation that arose on the committee as a committed hand. It is clear to all of us that this bill is being done quickly and does not adhere to the requirements set out in accordance with official financial laws. It is accompanied by a request for confidence to resolve matters in such a hurry and also a responsibility not to stand in the way of needed opposition in the situation we face. I can sign that at least it's necessary. doing what is suggested in this committee party, and in the circumstances I can also excuse the quick treatment. According to that, I also have some precautions. I think there are a few things you could go further in. The first warning is for court treatment. As a result of rushed medical care, I believe that the budget must be carefully monitored for the financial resources approved by the budget. A financial committee also needs to call for the logical support that should have been in accordance with official financial laws if the case had been handled normally, especially because of claims on investment initiatives that had been chosen as a means of man - made gain and a lucrative task. At present, we have just claims, but we have no evidence that the projects are really worth human gain or profit. Questions include: How much human resources are involved in a bridge recovery project and how long it will take for human resources as compared to, for example. to the same funding for a innovation campaign? It is only natural for a financial committee to have a summary of the tasks chosen and the information that were fundamental to every project on how much human resources and money it was valued. Given the current budget, all projects should be completed on April 1, 2001. So when all the work ends, isn't it predictable unemployment? Just a one year off? I hope everything else will be started to seize it and new projects, etc., but it is about to take on a special investment initiative. It may not be that something else will come to take it, unless, yes, promise that it will be taken another step. You will see it, not just in word, but on table. Another problem is that the basis for a project to be successful and profitable is the information available and that we are to receive it, to be compared with the available tasks, e.g. jobs that are in the recommendation of the memory of the part. The last warning is due to the international marketing campaign established by the National Institute of Iceland where conditions arise in foreign markets. There is a vague basis for that in this financial capacity, and a financial committee needs to follow it more closely after the hearing. At all times, I would not accept such treatment, but this time I do so with a reference to the circumstances we live in. They're not gonna apologize for this kind of treatment, but they'll just change it. When decisions are made regarding emergency treatments, the responsibilities of the surveillance will be much greater. In the entrance of Pirata in this matter, we put the emphasis on three things. First, to engage in counterimportant operations, second, to provide defenses and third, to ensure financing and access to the health system. The proposals made by the Commission meet the need to resort to predictable unemployment with some of the opportunities for innovation. It is reflected in increased donations for development, research fund, cultural contributions, sports and lists, for the New World Translation of Students, for vegetarians, in contributions to parishes, for fragmented settlements, and for climate fund. Based on the review of the Industrial Association, e.g. To develop technology, a total of 2 billion more to form on projects that won the highest average in the last distribution. Some documents are placed in the medical system, but it is obvious that this will require more attention. True, there are reserves and extra funding, but it would have been nice to respond right away rather than to what has usually been done. Public review compliments, e.g. What was done in this financial bill, the search for documents before they were formed, but not after. It's hard for the council to have the budget when the Commission comes to the council and says: "I spent a lot of money, you're actually going to have to agree. Why weren't we asked before? This is understandable in a variety of joints such as health and unemployment, etc., but it should also be predictable. You can come and look for sources in advance because the source is certainly not an spending warrant, but just to do the job, for example. legal tasks. Here is a contradiction in the sidelines of this matter. On the one hand, people wanted better information on costs and opportunities, and they did not want to provide additional financial resources in advance to the health system or other projects, but an agreement was reached. However, the committee did not receive very detailed information on the proposals of the government and did not really seek them specifically. In view of my circumstances, I have a certain understanding of this. It was noted in the panel's discussions that no one is starving the health system because of the epidemic's increasing pressures. There is a difference between applying for clearance for the cost you know before or after. It is good to get suggestions ahead of time so that we can see better into the future, and we are not surprised at the cost. It is also a security for those who need the ministry to know that it will be there for them. I have an understanding of the circumstances we are facing, the problems that the EEA needs to face. I appreciate the cooperation that was shown by the representatives of the Committee members of the government and step forward by, in the spirit, because I cannot technically, sign under the committee, despite the fact that there are some warnings. Then I feel that it is more important to support the projects that can be found common ground. I do so in the hope that the government will find the same cooperation thereafter because without the arrival of the smaller section, the situation would have been quite pierced. In particular, I thank the chairman of the Committee for His Work in achieving the changes proposed and hope that more people will follow his example in the weeks and months to come. The arrival of the smaller part definitely made the situation better, and the head of the Committee worked hard to get space for the ideas of the minority. But better yet, if it's enough, I'll wait, nothing too hopeful, so to speak. I'm waiting for the government to accept the offer the government has given to us to cooperate in the circumstances we face. I believe that the evidence that cooperation was made in the work of the budget committee, and given the transfer of the case to a Economic and Business Committee, it doesn't matter there. It went as far as it could without cooperation with the government itself. Therefore, I agree with what is stated in the opinion of a greater proportion of legal committees with the hope that the next step can be taken in the past and because the solutions will definitely be better if more people arrive at work. We'll just see how it works. I'd like to put it here in particular that if someone had the honors because they were added 5 billion bucks. In this investment campaign it is the chairman of the budget board, Willum Þór Þórsson. Everyone suggested what could be done more and could be said to have suggested one project and another, but there was no project there unless everyone agreed and nothing except because the chairman of a legal committee fought for it. I just want to keep talking about the routine that we're a little trapped in. Instead of a energy exchange in sustainableity, the government's response is to send this damaged supernova into a garage and hope to continue it for a few more years. The government's investment campaign is designed to bring us out of a major problem. Although it is good to get wider bridges and footpaths in the country, there is a temporary solution to today's modern - day unemployment. More rock and malaria quickly provide for the construction industry than the recent economic crisis is now causing unemployment more than just construction. Energy exchanges need to be considered more carefully, both personal and economic. Instead of simply sending the machine into repair, our response to the coming problems must be based on a good foundation for the future. We need both repair and update. That is why Piratars focus on innovation at the same time as homes need to be protected and financed and access to the health system. It has long been said of the fourth support to be a innovation. During the reign of present - day rulers, this support has been given little strength, but it is now an ideal opportunity to do so. Instead of unemployment, we can offer us a new opportunity. Instead of trying to find our place where we once were, we can offer us some upbuilding opportunities. Well, obviously it didn't work. All the classes in the smaller section added a new proposal. Piranha is especially concerned with the features of innovation and wand companies, although, of course, all governmental groups are on the verge of a change. It's important to keep it very clear. We only cut between ourselves and introduce them, and it was up to us to introduce to you the chapter on innovation and sceptre companies, and we wanted to put on higher gear there, that's exactly the opportunity. There is a 9.1 billion bar. in the innovations and in the procrastination companies where the government is parking for the rest of the world. Focus on innovation, research and creative articles. Increasing roofs for reimbursement of the research and development costs of 1.5 billion will carry on a number of projects to the country. Set to 1 billion. In technology, a fund that would almost double this key sector and only the whole country, this is a key treasure. Another billion goes to the Research Fund and treasure. It contains the basic research and access to those for whom technology's funds can then take over and come forward. A vastly important task is being done there. At that time, half a billion people will develop culture, sports, and a list of countries with significant loss of income because of the epidemic, a major failure of business, and general activities, such as anywhere else but especially there. Keils and Central Centers receive 100 million and climate reserves, including a half billion forestry. In addition, contributions for research and innovation in agriculture, which may be vegetables, will be well over half a billion. At that time, the management situation suggests temporary down payment or a reduction in insurance costs of up to 4 billion for a company with seven or fewer employees. It would be very interesting to see it as a permanent process in the future, after the innovation process, i.e. The applications in various funds and grants, when a company is being made benefiting a few employees, it is with some reduction in insurance costs while it is still building up its internal functions after completing funding applications. In particular, this proposal needs to be initiated, and it has also been reported from those partners taking these initiatives and putting them into action, starting a summer distribution, an additional distribution in the year that would be achieved by the summer so that projects could begin immediately during the summer. There are ways to face potential unemployment. None of these things are really possible if we look to the future. We set up a goal for the future and try to build a bridge there. In the past few years, the main goal of political affairs has been stability, yet it is evident that the dream of perfect stability is either defective or is more suitable than just a few. The epidemic today shows that stability is in itself a hopeless goal. It is never long in a country that can be expected by volcanic eruptions, epidemics, storms, or scraps that explode. A system built to serve imaginary stability does not expect major setbacks. They do not have the advantage of time for instability and instability. Better aim is to aim for sustainable society, that society's institutions and infrastructure work together to promote the safety and well - being of its inhabitants. As with the examples, self - indulgent infrastructure is a more efficient product of disasters. For example, in large areas of the United States, a repeated power deficiency can be attributed to a failure to build the distribution system for a sustainable purpose. The failure of one place caused a collapse all over the place, the system was too connected, so combined that it fell like a gambling city when it was under stress. Sustainable systems are better able to cope with such pressures, for while one part of them is under stress, the other part of it is adjusted instead of falling. This is a thought error that we have about some kind of maximal activity that allows no room for stress points. When pressures arise, the whole system will fall because its structure has become so interwoven and economic that it cannot cope with stress. A self - esteem system, however, does not fall because it works out of the thought that it can cause trauma, we build it up into our systems for survival. In this way, we need to think about the future with sustainability to guide us. The law on public finances defines sustainableity as being that public commitments are longer and short - lived and will not impose unreasonable burdens on future generations. In today's pandemic situation, you may wonder how you could do better. It is not enough that only public commitments need to be self-sustained. We must need to think about sustainableness in a much larger context. How could e.g. Is the health - care system more flexible and more effective in dealing with temporary stress? How can the economy tolerate total collapse in a number of tourists? Would a sustainable society have coped with such pressures? The answer is yes, because although a single part of a sustainable system had broken down, other parts of it had been adjusted and developed. That's why innovation is important. A good example of this is e.g. The new constitution for our infrastructure and rights, which allows for exorbitant rights, initiatives, sustainable nature and resources, and many other basic formulas for sustainable democracies society. Clearly, most of the world's kingdoms were unprepared and ill - equipped to cope with epidemics of the present - day world. There was no autosystem. The tests, protective equipment, staff and housing were needed, and a clear response plan could have been taken immediately in a simple and accessible way, set in motion the production of pinders. Had it been ready, they would've gotten in use sooner. This is the ideologies behind the digital structures recently approved by the Allied Council. This is also the ideologies behind the cluster policy recently approved by the General forethought, always. Every time we think about sustainability in the future. Of course, as long as health care professionals act like heroes in their struggle with these health problems, the government evidently put the blame on that kind of danger. It has even been mentioned in some scientific fields as to the way an outbreak of crown virus, reminds me that it has been said, is a specific ticking time bomb. This was followed by the spread of MERS and SARS, it would only be a matter of time before something like this would happen. But no response, no thought of sustainability, or say: Okay, if that happens, we have a plan. Some countries in the world that had particularly ill at SARS and MERIAL had a response plan, responded quickly and hard, perhaps too hard, but perhaps not because no other countries were ready. If everyone is involved, not everyone has to do as much. It's gathering. For the future, self - sufficiency is a very important subject. It has been discussed in the United Nations World Goals, which divide into 17 categories; no poverty, no life in water, life on land, peace, and justice; and so on. In addition to this, OECD has defined the focus of prosperity. As the website of OECD's prosperity economy reveals, economics such as GDP do not explain enough living conditions for the citizens. Despite his powerful economic growth, he does not achieve a comparable increase in quality of life. This is a question we should ask ourselves, Why not? Where does economic growth stop? Where will he end up if he doesn't end up as much as an increase in the quality of life for the citizens of the world? You see, we need to look to the future. It's hard to change the habit. It is easy to keep doing all that was done before. It is particularly difficult to make changes when things seem to be going well, for then there is no special motivation for making changes. This could even make things worse. The economic system we live in and have lived in over the past few decades is swinging and has led to repeated recessions of crisis. The reasons are different, and some look like something that we could have controlled as if it were 2008. It was the work of men. A worldwide epidemic, such as today's rage or volcanic eruptions, is something we cannot control. But when things that we have no control over are harmful, we do not teach the system about. We don't call it a responsibility, but it's the system that's still to blame, a system that doesn't have a response plan for events that are actually predictable. Although they are not predictable for a time, they are predictable. We should demand this responsibility. Our systems are to be able to deal with unforeseen events, especially unexpected events that happen regularly, such as storms and infectious diseases. We are to design them in a way that enables them to cope and cope. Therefore, there is a special opportunity now to change and improve. Just when there's going to be a chance. There's extra space for new solutions. What was once used and practiced is now a void, not just a void where jobs have been lost, but a sense of security has also been lost. Life is not what it was before, and it is not necessarily predictable that it will happen that way again to very many. It must be our duty, then, to fill that void, but not by the way we used to, then we'll just have the same problems the next time it becomes a similar shock. We must fill into the vacuum with something new and better, with a system ready to cope with temporary traumas, a system that puts people's living conditions and prosperity more fruitful, a system in which we always ask ourselves if the present arrangement is the best to serve the nation's interests. When we are traumatized, we first consider defenses against those affected. Let us protect the rights of those who suffer shocks and services for them. Finally, though, we must build up for the future. In the shock we now have, Pirats focus on protecting homes, securing health services, and strengthening innovations throughout the country. Pirata's focus is seen in a board of committees due to a bill for financial support and in the changes made to more parts where people and their rights first come, where the emphasis is placed on the modern industry and that we all benefit, not just those who are sinking. The focus is on the people, for the people to come back to companies, and it's the health system that supports them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u97	V.E.G. President. We're discussing a Senate arrangement for investment initiatives and financial bill on authority to meet, including the following: Updated investment initiative. Thank you. paritaprevir The offer of Björn's Gunnarsson for an excellent speech, and I want to be sure that I agree with the core of my speech. A senator went through at the end of his talk, how we responded in such a shock to protect those who are most damaged and who are rapidly trying to control them. As shown in the investment campaign, when we have the power, we will go to the front door, and while we're getting through the presupervised health program, and when all the people are in the meeting area, we'll slow down. It has this routine cycle, home, and business, but it is of course very important to protect our companies and jobs because it is the simple economy that we need to fit in here temporarily and to relate to the core that appears in the members of the committee's list. A senator crossed. As far as health care is concerned, I just agree with it. A senator, we are expected to take these together regularly, hold the cost, and the government, or arrange for regular attendance at the council for sources as soon as we resolve the uncertainty involved. As for the innovation, I take my heart to it. Senator. I remind you of it as my colleague. paritaprevir Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir, says, because of that. A senator entered concrete, concrete, concrete, malbak, and the emphasis there, that transportation is often the basis for the innovation. [[The president calls.]] And then I just want to thank you at the end. A senator's strong and positive attitude and cooperation in the committee work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u98	A respectable president. I have often talked about this debt of wood, which is a small foundation for this investment campaign as far as I think it is. We're paying on that debt with the investment, and the reason is that we both have the debt, it's right there in front of us, and there's a possibility that we can take on in a very simple way. That's good and good. The problem is that we have much more problems, which are less obvious because we have run out of the same bike. Ironically, it is always the bad roads that make us tape the same bike, and all our attention is focused there. It is reflected, for example. have problems with a nursing home. We've seen that problem for years, and it's always connected to, for example. the efflux problem at the Land Hospital, which leads to an increase in cost. We've been told this for years, but nothing's happened. There are these things around the community that ring these bells at me, when the time comes, we're ready to give in and make a bridge to get over the shock but the obvious and the first thing we can catch is that rock and malbak, not all the other problems that are buried somewhere under the threshold I've often mentioned, not the nursing home that we should have taken in years ago, not the innovation which was owned and set up as the fourth foundation to be with not all the eggs in the same basket. [[The president calls.]] That's part of the problem that we're getting into right now because if one of our big baskets breaks down, it's all going down.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u99	V.E.G. President. I reiterate that a number of good projects are shown in changes in my activities, including the needed adjustments. A senator is a carrier. We talked about some of them, and we don't agree on the innovation. I'd like to state, though, that we're in this storm, and I'd like to stress that this isn't the final step. I'd feel that while we're paying ourselves here and going through this uncertainty period and this thing needs more. Better if it's enough, I'll just use a word. Senator. However, as members of the Committee, we are here on this island putting 1,250 million in addition to 1,750 million in research, innovation, and creative articles. There's quite a positive step in that rush. But I wanted to draw it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u100	A respectable president. If we think only in politics it's true that this is not the final step. But this is the first step, and this is the step where the government is showing the game. The cards we see there are the ones that the government groups can get together and they're going down, and they're sinking, and they're sinking, and they're sinking, and they're sliding, and they're sinking, and they're sinking, and they're slaving. It's the lowest of these categories that are in the government right now, and that's why the biggest money is going there, that's obvious. We have one of the best analyses through the road transport process and the like. What I've been trying to point out in my entire financial, financial, financial, etc. there should be a full analysis of the cost- and benefit analysis of the tasks available for example how much money they do for a job and that kind of thing. When a shock comes, it has to be interrupted and some bridge created to cover, we can choose exactly those tasks from the list to tackle that problem from A to Z. Hv. paritaprevir Njáll Friðbertsson noted earlier that 800 jobs or then were created in this investment campaign. If we look at the 20,000 who are setting up the damages, most of them were told in the news that we were going to 45%, which is exactly the decrease, we may now have 8,000 jobs there, in effect, in the state's pay. This will save 800 of them, 10%. It is the size grey we're looking at, and that's why the management side shows that the cards are changing. There is a possibility of more action, and I expect that the next step in the government will have to choose from the changes in my section, that there will be a slight reflection in the next steps. [[The president calls.]] I wouldn't be surprised.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u101	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It is fun to be in the same space again to discuss these matters. There have been many telecommunications and hours during the past week. I want to know at first that it's not just concrete or the annual work. It will come, for example. ... withGrativeEnglandandthe fund that flows in there. I'm reminded that there were 1,130 to 150 programmers in this matter. A measure of reasonableness must also be observed. It's new, they're doing big things. Hv. A senator enters the Technical Development Fund for Changes, and I only introduced it earlier. So if we add 1 billion, that's a 25% increase, not half as mentioned in the discussion. What caught my attention earlier was a discussion of economic stability and how. A senator looks at him. I think he's incredibly important and that the state is playing. I think that is exactly why we can respond in a good and reasonable way and come in strong. With regard to the Covid-19 epidemic, the barn has been collected for years, for six to eight years, the barn has been collected to cope with the current epidemic. Then I would also like to point out that it is important that we Icelanders have developed a number of systems to protect themselves from bad situations that arise. I may go into it more afterwards, just to point out that with the Covid epidemic and the epidemiology that's been working in Iceland, it's been systematically developed in creating a plan for this. I think it's happened to a D.A.D. that it's 14 to 15 years, so we're not always ready. [[The president calls.]] I don't want to talk about Icelandic health systems as it works and has worked and developed strong positions in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u102	A respectable president. I have not spoken any English medical system. They do a great job there, despite the circumstances in which they live, such as in nursing homes, because of the flow problem of Land Hospital's State Hospital because of the lack of nurses because they had legalized their struggles. Despite all the traumas they have suffered, and despite the limited resources they have had to work on, they can react that way. Let us not forget that one of the reasons why we need to react so quickly is that our health - care system cannot cope with that great stress. We need to respond much more in such a situation to make sure that the distribution of the disease does not become too rapid and that we do not lose it. Of course, two things are good both in order to avoid stress and for the general lack of distribution. Sure there's Digital Iceland out there -- at last. It took a pandemic to start at last. We've been saying for years that this was something we needed to do. We were extremely advanced in terms of digital Iceland in the past, it was before a collapse, so just completely forgotten the project somehow, in part understandable, but not in the long run, especially after the collapse. The financial fund is starting from a hugely low fund of donations after the collapse, so the development up until this government, however, was a few but like a whale. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson came in, the plan has been to reduce the donations there. They've been gathered into the barn, or whatever. Senator. I have said against saying that we have no idea whether we've paid off the worst loans or not. [[The president calls.]] We're missing all diagnostics on that. Perhaps we could have finished our investment in some way and thus had more time to handle such matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u103	Mr. President. I think it's a good thing, though, what we've been doing, e.g. ... inthewaywayways. I'm an amateur on the reduction in traffic accidents. During a 40 - year period, accidents in Iceland have decreased by about eight to ten times on a drive mile. That's because we've been improving our systems, that's exactly how it is. You can't say that we have the same road system today that we had 40 years ago. This is true of so many things in the community, how we deal with things, and how much we do. We forget sometimes. Then I just want to come in with you. A senator with the economy already. I couldn't quite figure out what was going on. A senator was going there. Economics was one of my favorites at school, and about 40 years ago, when a man was growing up, on average, 35% of Icelandic homes business went into buying for food. This rate is today 121⁄215%. It is important to build economic and national produce. Of course, we're supposed to do it in a sustainable way and most powerful way, and I believe we Icelanders have been doing it over the years. We have an immensely powerful system, a small nation on an island far north of the sea. Today, the traveling age shows exactly how well we are handling things. What a fine example we have in playing this epidemic today, Covid-19. It sounds to me that the world press has begun to agree with it now far and wide. It shows how powerful we are to take along knowledge of things. What an example of how our systems have been built in this regard! In general, I think that in the majority of the budget panels, the last week was a very good discussion of all these telecommunications about where we want to go and about the ideas being worked on. [[The president calls.]] We may be able to analyze how much money we can come out in the next nine months. That's the big picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u104	A respectable president. We're blessed to have heroes in the health system, but maybe there's something else about the fund and the execution. 35% earlier went to shop for dinner. At the same time that it may have improved, we have completely lost control of housing costs. This is an enormous cost rate, especially for those with low incomes and high rent expenses or usually with housing costs. What I said about economic growth was the link to the economy. However, there has been some significant economic growth that has yielded largely to the highest level of income. Of course, he has paid most of his money to all who have the most money. It's mostly because of the income, but it's not just money that made most of it. One of the reasons behind the economy is to have more standards to measure the results of making decisions in this room, not only considering how it affects the quality of the economy but also what it produces, and why it produces in one place than another, the decisions we make in preparation for, therefore, transport, also in the health system, and in other places. Why Lifesaver? Why does living things improve? Is it not only wonderful if life's quality of life is improved despite a decrease in economic growth? It's possible, it may be complicated, but it's quite possible. We have the problem that in recent decades, despite the blessings of traffic accidents, we still have such factors as. Smoketracks with huge number of accidents and obvious work to complete, in order to reduce the number of accidents. [[The president calls.]] It's really slow.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u105	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator, chairman of the budgetary committee, Willum Þór Þórsson, for history. Thank you for your cooperation on a budget board. The Chairman has managed his work well, and in smaller parts and more parts we have been able to work together for the changes that are important, and thanks to them. On the other hand, I immediately sign the committee's opinion, and it's twofold, i.e. I think it's necessary to do better than is stated in this bill. Maybe I'll find out later. This is, of course, an important first step, and I think a reassessment must ask how effective this so-called economic package is in trying to restore the job life that is nearly frozen due to the Covid-19 virus. Reevaluation of the results is essential. I hope we'll see in the next few days and weeks, even the situation. In addition, I'm warning you about the loans, the additional failure loans with the state responsibility for which the Federal Bank becomes a kind of middleman, and the financial companies are expected to cover the loans. I'll find out later. In this context it should be said that the smaller part represents a change and brings in such a powerful injection, if it is accepted, at a rate of 30 billion. It's been well explained here, my ass. Councilmen Ólafur the son of Ágústsson and Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson have both made this adjustment and what it involves. I'm not going to trace it any more specifically here. I'll only come to that afterwards. These suggestions of the management body are added to the current proposals of the budget board presented here. We know that in medicine, it is considered the most effective and best treatment when fighting infections, to give a good dose of medicine, to treat antibiotics, as it were, immediately at the start of therapy to strike strongly the infection, and then to reduce the dose afterwards aimed at preventing the infection completely. In fact, this worldwide epidemic of virus, epidemics, infected not only about 1,000 Icelanders, has infected the entire economy and virtually paralyzed it as such. in travel services, and now many other sectors have been infected. In effect, the same is true when we have a problem with the situation or infection that we have in our business life and in our medical profession, i.e. A large dose of action is needed at the start and then less action afterwards, hopefully, so that we can recover. Then I come to what I mentioned at the outset of my warning on the Commission opinion and the Congress resolution, it has to be done better. You will need a large injection, a large dose at the start. We in the Middle East simply feel that this is not enough, and in the same way, the entire government situation is. Of course, it was positive in the work of the Commission for the initiative of the Chairman of the Committee, and thanks to the fact that these injections, originally of 15 billion, were increased to approximately 20 billion bucks. That's a very positive step. However, as I told you earlier, the government groups agree that the government's proposals are going too far, it must be increased public investment, support of innovation, and further the necessary support of the welfare system. Aggressive stakeholders. visited the panel meeting, pointing out the need for these measures to be larger and larger. This is a step in the right direction, but we would have wanted to see more, as I mentioned at the outset. The other one, on my side, has reached the bridges. Here earlier today, I considered only the absolute necessity of perfect transparency in this loan. Keep in mind that it is the public of the country who is lending companies who are now having problems. It must prevent some kind of discrimination between enterprises in these areas. Some companies will not take advantage of the resources available, but will fight in banks on their own terms and will not take advantage of the resources offered like part-time jobs. That, of course, is a positive one, and that is to be said of us. Then there are other companies who make good use of this, and as you have seen in the media, there is a question of whether they should really take advantage of these resources when they have paid high money for not so long. It must be ensured that there will be no discrimination between enterprises in these areas, and all of this needs to be on the tables. I also mentioned earlier today what, for example. The U.S. Senate was doing, the tremendous financial package it has approved. It is a requirement for the public to know which companies will receive such loans. It's been rolled up here. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson asked him why. A senator, chairman of a legal committee, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, just to see if he felt that the same reason was being held here was that I could not understand the chairman of a legal committee, anyway. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, better than he'd approve because it's all on board, since Icelanders are burned after the 2008 financial collapse. Since there must be no secretism, it is of utmost importance that the agreement between the Federal Bank and the financial institutions will be in a way that ensures complete equality between enterprises, transparency, and all that is to exist on the table of these materials. My bad man is about to see this deal. He will be placed before the committee, which is naturally very positive, but I also believe that the contract will be laid before the council, and people will be able to discuss it at the council Hall and make their comments if there are any. We must not forget that the amount of money you put into it is about money. 50 billion bucks, that's huge money. Besides, I want to come to health care professionals only. Because of this viral infection, health care providers are under enormous pressure. The population involved in those patients infected with the Covid virus is largely under extreme stress, and therefore we add to the smaller parts to make a special stress payment for the caregivers and health care professionals to Covid infected persons, which is why we are working at a level of 200,000 k. It is proper to note that other nations are doing this. What is naturally heavier than tears is taking place in all of this is to see that these good health care professionals we should not have finished our contracts. Deals with nurses have been free for almost a year. It is extremely sad, and the message to these staff under these circumstances is hardly acceptable, that we have not been negotiated with people we rely on so much in such circumstances. I would like to use this opportunity, Mr. President, to encourage the government to complete this contract with health professionals, nurses, midwives of medical staff and other professions. They've got free contracts. This situation must be solved, and I strongly encourage the government to do so. In addition, I just wanted to introduce to you that we in the government stand have all applied ourselves to achieving a parapolitic solidarity in the Generalship of needed measures. The work on the committee was good. We want to, and we simply think that it is necessary to go further. V.E.G. The minister of finance has just said that it is better to do more at the outset than less at the outset. That is exactly what we propose, and we feel it is necessary to take a much more powerful action at the beginning. The government groups have come together in this. That's very pleasant news. These suggestions were very helpful. We must not lose sight of the goal of being protected and built up by the Icelandic industry and then the health and well - being of its citizens. Our suggestions are on four teams, and I'm not going to go anywhere in any way I can but because that is a suggestion for the rise in innovation and starters of more than 9 billion dollars, road control, and maintenance of about 9 billion dollars. I'd like to mention here that there's a lot of human activity going on. Nor should we lose sight of that fact. With regard to transport, we contribute to about 9 billion more to that group. The government's proposal is about 6.5 billion. However, the road structure is ready for action this year, about 11 billion dollars. Of course, because it is important that the injections come here and now and work are done. I have information that the road model is able to operate this year approximately. 11 billion bucks. so that there is room for money to be put into it so that you can fully apply what is then available. Then we have a suggestion for real estate and other investments of 4.6 billion and welfare to 7.3 billion. All of these are fine suggestions, and I encourage the management to support them because waiting too long can be harmful. The management part has told you that you will have a reassessment of the position and that you will have a second injection. She can't be late either. Hence, it is better to do more now and make sure that the commercial wheels get started more quickly. I'd especially like to make the subject of the situation in Southnes. The latest report is that unemployment is now under way for about a year. 1 1 1. Before this shock, the South's unemployment rate was about 10%. The local authorities in Rhinestown have said that unemployment can reach 20% on Southnes. It is enormously high, so we must act in a powerful way. We Southnes council members have spoken here that Southnes were decommissioned and that agencies there did not receive legal funds in the way they should, because of the unprecedented population growth that has taken place there. Now they face this crisis and this massive unemployment. I don't think the government's operations package is somehow insufficient for the Southnes. It will carry out some activities with the South American Institute of Health for about 30 years. 200 million. K. which, of course, is a positive project, but better if it is done. There is an extra piece of money to Istavia, which is also positive, while negative news is received from Istavia. The company is giving names of people who are surprised at what suddenly breaks in. In view of the fact that this company's personal position has been very good, and you have considered it a very powerful business, it is surprised to learn that right now, just after a year's time. This certainly is disappointing. Of course, the amount of money that the company gets through this bill, if it becomes a law, is positive that it can go on some practical project. We must also consider the measures we have to take to those who are unemployed, where in the smaller parts we want to see funding and have a proposal for funding to the Central Center of Southern Social Education, an extremely important institution as well as Keiliis, an important educational institution. I laid the basis for this to be done within the legal committee. Sadly, this did not go through because it is a means of great importance. I must say that it was disappointing, Mr. President, that it was not achieved. We need to keep a close eye on our Southnes and make sure we keep our arms around them, since the situation is much worse than in most other parts of the world. Then, too, it is vital that we think of those who had been on unemployment, who had lost their job before this shock, even seeing that the period for which they may be on unemployment is over. We need to hold this group, and we need to extend the period allowed to be on the unemployment record as in the crash. That's an important option we have to look to. It's only part - time work. Tens of thousands of Icelanders are taking advantage of that strategy. Of course, it is very expensive for a government fund, but it is an important resource. I've already stressed it and encouraged the companies who don't need this and see that they can get through these difficulties without, to think that this is the common fund of our all, a government fund we have to associate with with with with with with with with with with with respect. It is also a question of whether it is possible to make use of people who have come home, i.e. is at home and in 25% work, using it for innovation in some way, developing ideas, etc. This is something that is well worth considering. There are thousands of Icelanders who are at home now who receive payment through this system and who wonder if they could not be used to develop ideas and such things at home. It's for everyone's benefit. Finally, I would like to say that it is very important that the contributions that come through this pack of measures are most useful. We need to keep a close eye on them because they will provide the results we are asking for, increase in jobs, increase in the level of employment, and restore the economic system. [[The president calls.]] This is what we need to be very careful about making the most of it. It's clear that the package here for payment is not enough for us, but it's a good first step. In the Middle East, we are willing to cooperate in all of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u106	V.E.G. President. I'm assuming the highest. The president still respects me for coming back. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, a member of the committee's staff. The legislature board, is regarded as more in advance, which he has made clear. Nevertheless, I wanted to come here, thank you for your excellent speech, cooperation, and a strong spirit on the committee. The changes were made in terms of the Commission's making of a clear and firm in the legal process that the companies who are being paid for extracurricular loans do not make money at that time, and it is likely that the companies who go into this facility will consider it very unlikely to do so. It is also very important to bring here the committee who is to ensure equal resolution and transparency. A senator rightly crossed over. We're in trouble. The budget is very much concerned that it will work, as is the information given by this committee, to the Ministers and members of the Parliament. Thank you very much for your cooperation with the Committee. I'd like to point out one thing about what we were dealing with and the results, but this is not a final resort. The smaller section has a number of practical suggestions, one of which may reflect the position during the short time we have to work out for the Academy of Education in Akureyri. [[The president calls.]] It is part of the procedure presented in the synonym itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u107	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's reputation and the cooperation that has been very good. Thank you. A senator, chairman of the budget board, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, for being open to the fact that this work was being carried on by the lesser part in a powerful way. It's been going along. On the other hand, we don't think we're going far enough, do we? A senator may feel the same way, but he indicates that there will be additional contributions and that they are not so long into it. I insist that there is a full agreement within the Committee regarding additional loans, a different name of the budget, that the conditions will be in such a way that there will be no suspicion regarding the payment of these loans, that everything will be on board and on the clear state. We all agree on this, however, we have not seen this agreement, it will be placed before the committee, and it is very important that we have plenty of time to review the conditions there. The committee to command this to monitor this must be arranged by professionals who are familiar with these matters. Of course, we rely on it and on the report and follow-up that will follow up. We're all on the same line as this. We just need to make sure that we intervene in a budget if the contract doesn't meet all the conditions we have discussed and that, of course, we need to intervene and make sure that they do. [[The president calls.]] It's very important to me. This loan account is a massive operation, and we must not forget that it is at the expense of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u108	A respectable president. We'll discuss two issues together, a special temporary investment campaign on the part of the government and financial contributions on the other hand. I'm also gonna start by thanking you for your cooperation with the Committee. It's a challenge hour sitting very many hours a week in front of my computer, and I felt like I was kind of squared in the face. During difficult times, there are a number of strategies that we have to take, and that is what we did here at the Council and that has only been quite successful in this work. I'm also going to say that the Chairman was doing a very good job trying to get people together to fix what came to us and that the memory of the item put its mark on the suggestions here to be found. Many have listed quite a number of things today, as these issues are linked to both the budget and the Economic and Business Committee in some ways, and there's no need to reroute them all. I think it's important, though, to make a few things, including... That the situation we are facing today is much different from that of 2008, which is better off. Not only is a government fund well equipped to deal with the challenges we face but, fortunately, most homes are much less debt than they were then. We have merit stability, and despite the fact that there's someone left behind in the maps who doesn't indicate that in 2008, in which case we must not forget that it was 18% at the beginning of the collapse. It is just about 2% now, and in the latest Haguems assessment, it is also a reduction in the consumption index in the last 12 months. This is just one of many things that are different from 2008. However, this does not change the fact that we constantly assess prices and other factors in the interests of our households because we want to maintain both the level of purchase and the level of prices. Therefore, it is important to reevaluate the basics that we see here, along with the next national interest we receive, and to accept the situation as to whether the Allied need to intervene. All I'd like to talk about is the Secret Bank and the loan he's supposed to give in a state-of-the-priority, so-called bridge loan, which makes it a total of 50- 4700% responsibility for extra loans to companies that have suffered significant loss of income because of a pandemic we have. The budget committee listed eight conditions in the bill itself, yet the Committee considered it a reason to have even more and more control of them, and we talked a good deal about appointing an independent surveillance committee. Happily, the economic and business committees and the financiers felt that this was to be done to monitor the implementation of the law. The banks do not have enough confidence in the community, and since the fall of 2008, they have not really been raised properly. A branch office shall submit a report on the implementation of these loans every six months and for the first time immediately prior to November 1. The committee must also inform the minister if some sort of perjury occurs on the project. Then the secretary should present his reports to the General. The majority of the budgets also proposed that companies with additional interest in the state will not be able to pay their owners, which I think is very important, nor that they are allowed to buy their own stock while these loans are running around. These two things are different from the way we reacted in our time, and I think that's very important. The majority also put in place the need to set budgets for individual loans. In particular, the more part emphasizes that the conditions presented in the agreement with the Secret Bank will be submitted to a budgetary committee for discussion before the contract is signed. It's a pretty big thing I think it just needs a lot of surveillance. I also feel that there is a complete possibility, as discussed here only today, that companies are being loaned on board. If there is a law on bank secret, or anything like that, there is an example for a certain committee, a group of members, or something like this to have access to such documents in a closed room where they can be crossed over to make sure that everything is as it should be. I think this surveillance committee is going to make sure it's very well. Also, the important agreement made by the financial organisation to be comparable to the companies that come to need these contributions. The banks are not going to make any money, and they have already dropped interest. So I think they're on their way to trying to restore trust in themselves. A respectable president. We have already seen the tremendous impact of the Korean virus on tourism companies and then many others with enormous problems, looking forward to the lack of income for the next month. This situation is leading to an impact on a vast number of jobs, especially the private and smaller companies. One of the suggestions here is 3 billion market efforts to cope with a reduction in the number of tourists. Half the market is to market on foreign markets of similar types as Inspired by Iceland was, and then the other half of it is designed to encourage the population to travel within the country during the summer. The aim of these measures is to limit the inevitable damage caused by this condition and all the procedures below. We have 18 billion investment packages in addition to the more than 47 billion that are already under budgeted for the present year. You might be reminded that from the 2016 budget, these investments have increased by 72%. Besides, we can't forget the investments of public companies like Isavia, Civilization and Landsnets. The proposed suggestions were expected to be effective as early as this year. It must be completed on April 1 next year, so we must look to it when we are trying to add another tens of billions of dollars what this will accomplish. Nor can you place unlimited funds into the economy and feel that they will get everything to work. In addition, a much larger investment campaign will be expected to be put forward later, soon to spring, over the next year and until 2023. We know that many projects have to wait for that plan to be submitted and that they need more preparation than we can do so that we can just drive them in here and now. We need to be realistic, and we need to see how we manage with what we set in motion and then take it back, as has been said many times. It's clear that this is just the first reaction. I would like to mention some suggestions and the adjustments suggested to be made immediately. There are improvements at the hospital at Selephoss, changes to the hospital in Stykisholmi, health care at Acdéri, and the National Health Organization at Húsavík, as well as the joyful task of building in the rehabilitation department at the Grensás. This is to be rushed to the boarding house of the Association for Women's Residents. To react specifically to what has happened to us, we have been given financial resources, including some of them. to the hospital, to the Akureyri Hospital, the Medical Center, and the Medical Department to help deal with the consequences of Covid-19. In addition, 400 million are put in viral screening tests and protective equipment. They're to be maintained on various real estates, e.g. High school, at the office of the police at Ak Aranei and in Reykjavík and the county office in Stykisholimi, the Academy of Education in Akureyri, and other schools. 2 billion will be placed in a broad range of environments, including for energy exchange in transport. In particular, ocean - related activities are seen there. There will be a wide variety of footpaths in both parks and elsewhere, as well as the construction of the infrastructure on the glacier. There is an increase in the amount of funds on the climate council, and it is not to be forgotten that the funds are put into irrigation issues that work in cooperation with rural society and are highly environmental. 1,400 million are added to support the Research Fund, Internal Development Fund, and Technical Development Fund to ensure global competitiveness in scientific work, research environment, and development of innovation in order to create new jobs based on intelligence and knowledge. Here, in particular, I would like to mention the New World Fund of Students, which I believe will be helpful, which is designed to give college, research, and business opportunities to hire students for summer work. This is also suggested to support domestic gardening and innovation in food production. For example, culture, art, and sports are moving 1 billion people to meet one another. the restraining order. Digital Iceland and Information Technology and the development of databases are costing 1,350 million to speed up the permanence of public service. Then there are huge challenges to transport, and since it was mentioned earlier that it could be added to fulfill what the road could do, we must not forget what is already being done in the existing provisions, transport programs, and other such. They've filled the receipts with this. I'd also like to mention the flight barn at Akureyri Airport and build up at the Akureyri airport we've been waiting for a long time. It strengthens all international flights and allows for further ports to open to the country. Then there is the route to Egl's airport that will be working on, and that's a big security issue. In turn, a 126 - million - million - and - a - half - mile - of - a - half - mile - of - a - half - mile [66 million km] course allows for an acceptable course, and it is proposed to dissipate the parking lot at Isafjörður Airport. We know the discussion that airports had to be shut down because of adverse conditions, but many airports are important because of medical transportation. I'm just going to record what's suggested in addition to the airport, but there are, of course, more in the original proposal. I encourage people to read the suggestions on transportation, since they contain a list of key projects. A greater part of the budget also suggests to increase the risk management strategy by 200 million and 100 million in Fragile settlements, which I have full faith in, to be most useful to the locals in the country itself. It's done well, too. Prohibition projects in Frabic settlements are all equally professional. The health factor, however, is in its top priority. The health system is under intense stress, and the activities have been severe, and it takes a long time to correct the epidemic. The greater part suggests that 1 billion already go to face some of the major costs already. I have to say, like others here, that health professionals with great honor deserve their work in the front line and should thank that as well as all staff in the forward line of service. It is not a self - righteous thing to put everything aside and to put it all aside on this huge project, as many have done, and for that, it will never be enough to thank you. A respectable president. A greater proportion of legal committees made several social recommendations, including about 400 million. K. a contribution to the monopoly of tax-free microlooms, and it is important not to limit other payments for disability. 100 million are available for the sake of homeless people, with many problems, and even some of them are observed. To Reykjavík and Akureyri. 40 million dollars are used to counteract anxiety and loneliness, and it becomes clear that many people are trapped and alone, especially older ones, and there is considerable pressure on organizations that serve them. A respectable president. It is important that we talk, especially with those who are alone. Let us, then, rejoice and enjoy a little, as can be seen in community media that people are trying. The relief of our spirits is of vital importance in the difficult conditions we now live in, and we need to remember that it will all end, even though it's pretty black for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u109	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill for financial support and a change in terms of both more parts and less share with the council. It may be tempting to go on a long list of existing duties and to discuss the benefits and weaknesses of individual teams as well as the benefits and failings of individual teams in existing adjustments. It's just not what it's all about. Our problem is that our position to cope with this crisis is always spoken of as being much better than it was before a crash. That's right. In many ways, the treasure is much better. Homes are less in debt, and so on. The problem, however, is that it is quite different from the downturn, a very different crisis that we are dealing with, as our neighboring countries have been doing with their arrangements. They deal with what cannot be called a complete stop to the world's economy for a while. We do not know how long that may be, the next month or two or three. We see a blow to our economy now with no parallels, no precedents for such things, and hopefully we will never experience such a thing again. We'll probably see at least three hundred thousand, if not more, during this month's reimbursement. This includes a substantial loss of income for the individual. Thousands of people lose their jobs in this month. This is the way we've never seen each other before. When speaking in this context about the position of the State Fund, let us use this fine position to ease the blow. The biggest problem with government proposals is that this financial allowance is simply not used as it should. Of the 230 billion government operations package, 170 billion are spent in pay for their professional life and State responsibilities on loans, 170 billion of 230. 10 billion more than that are the possible assessment of national property savings. Direct injection into the government's budget package runs from 50 to 60 billion, and here we are offering more items or as financial committees all called on to improve the 5 billion into that package. When it comes to the scope of public action, we are part of our neighboring countries, and all we have to say is that the government's actions are unattainable. The discussion says that there will be more, but there is no answer to the question of what this will be or when it will take place. It must be a touch now, the reaction must be strong now because people are losing their job now. Businesses are about to run into huge business problems right now. In the vast majority of cases, this management problem has nothing to do with whether or not they have been successful before. It simply reflects the complete uncertainty that has come up as a result of disease prevention, we are actually shutting down the economy as a means of control, and the complete uncertainty about how tourism will resume when we get out of this situation and how long it takes. Most people agree today that it is dangerous to expect a huge turnout from tourism this year, a massive recession, and a defensive decline. In this situation, it is so important that we take the right advice, take action that will actually produce results in reducing the damage where possible. We need to look at how we can support SMEs. Not to be overlooked is the fact that half of the population operates in such companies, with fewer than 20 employees. These are the companies that calm biofuels today. Support to them is support for the homes of the country. They're trying to save jobs, save people's survival, and stop income loss from becoming even greater. It's dangerous to do too little. Politicians and representatives of the government have spoke grudgingly that in these circumstances, it is better to do more than less. I'll advertise more. Where is it? What we see is less. If we do not do enough, this short - term blow, so to speak, may become a long - term crisis. Not to be overlooked is the fact that when thousands of people lose their jobs and tens of thousands of people lose a lot of their income, the demand in the economy is a major factor. If we don't get a good kick out of the economy, it's gonna be a mess. Therefore, I still repeat that if it is not used, it is not enough to talk about the state's position in question. It is not enough to plan to bring large, swollen investment plans for the next year's financial debate for the next year. It will be too late, which means that the result will be far deeper than that, economic consequences for all of us will be far worse. That's why I say again and again: I encourage the government. I encourage the minister of the government to fulfill his repeated statements that in these circumstances it is better to do more than less. However, they do not interfere. I suppose, unfortunately, in the debate and votes we are about to make today of my proposals, we will see the traditional political lines. Even though it's the highest. This morning the prime minister said that each senator is confined to his convictions only, we will expect to see that this conviction in the government section will be very consistent. These suggestions will no doubt be left to every one of us, and I am so sorry. We're just about to get hit by a standard political target. The minority worked hard to achieve acceptable changes in the government's operation programme for discussion, particularly on a budget but also on a financial and business committee, but unfortunately, it has to be said that in spite of good cooperation and good desire we simply ran across a wall when it came to larger measures. It was quite clear that the addition to the government's carry - out kit was covered with an additional 4, breakdown5 billion. That's not what it takes. It takes at least A total of 2,030 billion in operations, most of which need to be performed immediately. What we in the smaller section are measuring out are all very practical actions. These are measures and projects in the road system, projects that could be attacked now. I don't understand why we're in the middle of something like that. Still on board the road bill or private funding bill, such as the Alf - year bridge, which could easily be added to public projects and protected the citizens from further curses under these circumstances. The wealth can handle this project. According to my information, it's more or less ready. A decision is needed to attack it. Then we should not wait for it to be offered in a private treasure structure but, rather, for a government fund simply to say, "We'll take this project, we'll make it happen, and we'll get it started. " The same can be said of such projects as the doubled Rhine Way. We've had that project on the design table in probably the 1920's. It's gotta be ready by now. There must be a way to get that project started. What message is it to the people of Southnes, where unemployment is moving up to 20% of this date that it is not possible in these circumstances to attack large investments in that area? This government has repeatedly spoken of the importance of attacking the construction of nurses. The government's investment package does not require such effort. If not now, when can you attack them? What has been done in the construction of 200 nurses in the capital area at the highest level. A year and a half ago, the health minister spoke of a stand to attack, but are there not enough to be ready for an invitation or a project? It's just over a year before the election. This could be a challenge. In the South, there is a project in the development of nurses in the area that is becoming as hard as it is in this crisis. Let's do it, get it together, and build up. There is much more to be done, and these are practical suggestions; these are practical tasks that we offer in the lesser part, and the memory part is united. Although the smaller section explains a number of factors and it may have worked effectively in sections, this government, with extreme stiffness and inconsistency to the natural request of the memory of the minority, was able to combine this dissociatively smaller part of a common proposal. That is why we suggest that 9 billion will be added to roads this year, tasks such as Smokejanes Way, Southland Road, and Westland, a project that can be used to attack and speed. It wouldn't be a fault if they didn't get up to the full this year, they'd be off, and they'd follow us into the next year. The financial resources available to these projects now would include them in the next year. Another factor that I find very difficult to understand is how slow the administrative part is to agree with proposals for increased donations for innovation. When if it's not now? I still ask. We do not know when travel services will take over and give us the economic resistance we need. We know there's a lot of opportunities for technology and wands, and these same companies tell us that if we were to raise the roof on research and development costs, it'd be new. The International Technical Technologies we have and work in this country would be prepared to bring such projects to the country, create employment, and fight. There's a lot of opportunities. There are also many opportunities to expand your donations in technology and other infrastructure funds. We have repeatedly received information on this in a budgetary committee that a number of projects that have received the highest quality ratings have not been assigned from these funds, simply because of lack of funds. There, indeed, is a better way to do so. We know that we can and need to do much more in our welfare. There is a need to add money to interest improvements and housing. Homes take a major blow in survival and do not provide increased support in the circumstances, apart from the uncertainty of the gang crash and possible inflation. We all sense the fear that exists in the community today with increasing inflation, rising in prices, and an increase in rent to economic recession, loss of employment, or significant loss of income. In such circumstances, we should greatly increase the budget for housing and growth in order to meet our homes in this regard. A number of other projects could certainly be mentioned. My associates in my section have done well with them, and I'm not going to list them anymore. The key point is that on the table of Congress there are proposals for the smaller section, logical, practical suggestions on how to take action now to spit some life into the government's operations package so that it can arrive at least Close enough to be the first reaction to this economic crisis. I hope indeed that the conviction of the Generals, the highest. The prime minister pointed this morning to being the only thing that would tie their votes today, stand to do more, agree with his advisers who have repeatedly said that it is better to do more than less. You see, you're right. It is better and there is a need to do more than less, and immediate action is needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u110	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The village Þorsteinn of Víglundsson for an excellent speech. We had an excellent conversation earlier today. In itself, I don't have to cross it, but I just want to make sure it's right. One senator said, indeed, the lesser part of his efforts, shared whole - souled in this work, and contributed much good things, as was the case. A senator crossed. I'm not gonna stand here and waste my energy against it because I'm wrong. However, I do believe that when we appreciate the scope of the procedure, it is as good as it is. A senator speaks of, that there is too little work here, and that we must not fall into the pit of doing too little. There may be a question of approach that I might comment on. It's just that I think about the next few days, and we'll take the next steps. We need to examine all these excellent projects in connection with our transport plan and investment plan. With the refund roof, I'm on the same boat as the other. A senator and I are certainly ready to join him in calling for information and looking to what it is now returning. It's not long since we raised this roof, and I know it'll be celebrated by many wands and innovations. I'm not gonna spend my energy on some political bitch to disagree, but there's a difference between how we think it. I think we need to do more. We need to do more, to make it more specific, and to do it in security. In that sense, I agree with what. A senator and again thank him especially for good inputs, good cooperation with the committee, and a number of good ideas as usual.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u111	President. Thank you. A senator resists. To continue our mutual filing alliance, I also thank you again for the end of the full reason, the cooperation of the Committee was very good as far as it could go. I know why. A senator is very serious when he says that he does not want to waste his energy arguing about the need to do more. I felt very strong at the work of the Committee and the suggestions we made there that truly meant understanding and interest in doing more. I understand in some respects the hands of the greater part are always bound by the will of the government in such circumstances. But it doesn't change my disappointment that we didn't take advantage of this opportunity, especially when it comes to the innovation and technology sector. State funds risked by raising the reimbursement rate from uncertainty about what work it might create is very low. The amount of money will be used only if the projects are completed. That is why it would have been so risky for a government fund to spit in and see what would come. I think it would be good for us to bear in mind when we start building after this pandemic that it is not necessarily the same economy will rise from the ashes, if it could be used metaphorically. It would be good for all of us to review the counsel we received after the collapse of the McKinsey report on the emphasis on our knowledge companies, on our global sector and on our building. I think we should unite on that. Tourism will rise, I have full faith in it, but I sure hope we can join ourselves in building the technology and knowledge sector out of the economic problems we face. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we must never forget that in all these cases too there is opportunity. I think our chances are definitely there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u112	A respectable president. We are discussing a bill for financial support and its effect on improving our position on the crown virus. In answer to what. Earlier today, I proposed to the head of a legal committee, Willum Thor Þór Þórsson. They'd pay tax and decrepit for the poor and older citizens who really need it now. I'm going to read from the reviews of the Corporate Community for financial aid. It says, by permission of the President: It is suggested that microenergy pensions be raised immediately to meet the number of people who have even now. no access to food assistance. It is suggested to raise basic pensions or income insurance for microenergy pensioners by 50,000 dollars. This explains how income insurance and basic pensions work and the effects of raising the growth of disability by increasing the basic biofuels and income insurance. It's basic pensions according to 1 8 st. Social security is a microchip. There were 18,592 paid basic pensions, of which 17,411 were paid nonskilled basics, but income does not impair basic pensions. Resources from a pension fund do not impair basic pensions and decline when income from other sources exceed 407,034 k. a month or 4.888,404 k. every year. The cutoff rate is 25%. Remuneration rates other than pension income earners start to decline when income is over 214,000 dollars. It would be perfect for us to get together and move on to add that in itself there would not be an enormous amount of money for the money to come, 20,000 bucks. to each disability, costing 400 million. We may be talking about 600 million because tax returns considerably, all of which are taxable. This as a first step would strengthen the position of disability and would be very wish that one of the following steps we take in these matters. Another thing that may have forgotten something about this discussion today, or I haven't seen it, is the status of sports training in the country and its future. This is the basis for much of our youth being involved in sports. I can only imagine that many companions'financial standings will be frightening and what the consequences may already be. There's a lot of work to do and help. I hope it's done. Then there is one thing that we have been discussing and that needs to be discussed more, which are monotonous. Many people are now making less money, and we have a set group, e.g. farmers who are only in travel service at the particular time of the year, perhaps from March/ April until September, October, November at most, and therefore fall out and have no income for several months. The question is how they're mad at it. Some take back in time is expected, and it's a question of whether these people will land between ships and docks, they won't be able to access any of the resources that have already been introduced. There are also other classes that get out of this badly, like cab drivers, physical therapists, and many others who can't do their job the way she's been so far. We must also consider what lies ahead, what comes after the virus epidemic is over. The greatest fear of it is of the homes and people. To rise up out of these things, the foundations must be in order, and the houses, and the people. It must be said at the moment that the government is doing some good things that can be said and supported everything it is doing, but the lesser part stands together to try to present larger packages, try to do more than less, as shown. It's been going through here, let's do more. The question, though, is always: When is it enough? That may be the most difficult question of all, when is it enough? Is that 20 billion or 30 billion? I think 203/430 billion would be great if you put them in place. That'll probably be the biggest problem. Where's the right place? As I say, of course, it's the homes, the people, and the businesses. It's number one, two and three. I totally support the completion of the Smokey Way. It has to be said, just as it is, that it's pretty serious not to double it already. Since it's not double, there's gonna be accidents. Accidents are the most expensive thing for society, but they are the worst. Unfortunately, there will be a fatal accident, and it is not reversible. That's why we're supposed to use this opportunity now and finish these things. Another thing I haven't heard of, but should be one good package right now, using the opportunity to take out all the bridges on the ring road. They have proved to be dead traps. There's a lot of business going on and it'd be really good to finish it. I don't realize how much it would cost, but I don't think it's really appreciated for money because if we prevented the accidents that happen on one broad bridges, it would quickly pay up that cost. In a panel on the bill to legalize economic impacts following a pandemic crown virus from the Economic and Business Committee, the representative of the mob, Inga Sæland, an officer on the Committee, is court-ordered by the President's permission: ▪ Inga Sæland, an officer of the Committee, supports the issue with the following notice: When it is accepted that the government's actions do not end with this bill. However, its approval, with the changes proposed by the committee, is the first step in the right direction and will be of great benefit in limiting the inevitable damage caused by the pandemic of the Covid-19 disease. Yet, there could be much more powerful support for poor people and families right away, for it is basic human rights that the government meets the basic needs of the citizens for food, clothing, housing, and necessary health care. In a committee panel on the bill for funding before 2020, and a proposal for a temporary investment initiative from a greater proportion of budgetary agencies, according to the court's permission: They are aware that when it comes to accepting that the government's actions do not end with these councils, there is Inga need for the Sæland to sign the commission. However, their agreement, with the changes made by the majority, is the first step in the right direction and will be of great benefit in limiting the inevitable damage caused by the pandemic effect of the Covid-19 disease. Yet, Sæland Happyland would have wanted much more support for poor people and families right away, for it is basic human rights that the government meets the basic needs of the citizens, i.e. for food, clothing, shelter, and any necessary health care Seeds, clothing, shelters. Of course, there should be no need to mention this, since there should be no need to worry about not having food, clothing, and shelter. But I'm sorry, it's not. We are to seek to ensure that everyone enjoys their human rights. As a result, to make sure of this, the United Nations Convention has to be legally established on the affairs of the disabled. Then there's one thing that we need to figure out, I'm not quite sure, but I'm scared that we're gonna forget for a second and the inflation will start. If we watch the gang these past few days, we're on our way. The crown weakens and increases e.g. The euro has become Gigantic, and this is not good because it means, of course, that all products that come to the country will rise. As a result, those in the lowest pension will find it far more difficult to buy necessities. Therefore, there is a hurry to do something for that group. I'm sorry it won't be until June 1st, a little far into it. I would have liked to see it on April 1 but it's too short for it to work, but then I would have seen pay on May 1. I ask, why can't you have this one-off on May 1, why June 1? I think it would be better for this group to get her sooner, and it would have been even better if he was paid on June 1 too. That would have been really cool. There's a real need to help this group. The smaller parts' proposals are many great, but unfortunately, as we have seen, they'll all be considered later. Sadly, if we look at the changes that are being made in relation to the total package, that is not an enormous amount. This is less than 10% of the total package. This is not out of control in itself. I think that would improve. It would be great if the more part would accept it, and we would take out once these strange targets that always need to be, not agree with what the lesser part brings, especially when there's such a lot of solidarity on doing things well. It could have been more consistent with what the majority contributes and what the smaller part puts forward and runs both parts. Sadly, though, only in some perfect world do we learn in the future that we need to work together on all things, especially in such times. We're doing what's better, but I would have liked it to have been more and better and that the suggestion that the smaller parts, which are very good, would be accepted. I think it would be very good for society because there are a lot of very good suggestions, such as for NPA support, support for nurses, support for older citizens and the welfare system. These are excellent suggestions. I hope that if they don't go with us now, they'll be included in the next package I know they'll come. I hope that in there they will be suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u113	V.E.G. President. We have reached the end of this discussion. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for his speech. He did very well in advance as a fellow class member. A senator. paritaprevir Sæland hareg, who has a seat in his head. A legal committee, an article in the Commission's list of parts, agrees with it on this notice and contributed much good to the committee. Thank you. A senator for calling attention to the plight of the sports club. I'd like to point out that there's a suggestion about 750 million. K. increased contributions to culture, art, and sports The committee proposes an additional 250 million. This is also the package of action, the so-called tapeworm, a set of guidelines for reimbursement of the non-employment factor of projects this year and it is to be useful. I have high hopes that the more comprehensive suggestions I offered as a service group may be realized, although not in this event, to support the public welfare work throughout the country. I'd like to mention, too, that I agree. When we consider such suggestions that they go to the right place and take advantage of the investment campaign as it is suggested, work makes a difference, and come into the right time. I would also like to point out that many of the changes made in the opinion of the greater part are ideas and suggestions of less parts. We were in this together. I'll get to it in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u114	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree with him that, of course, this was done in a good partnership and also in a welfare committee, as we have seen, when we took those two packages in there. All of this was done in good cooperation, taking into account both sides, but maybe as often as you are, you don't get everything. I want to agree with what. A senator that it's really good in this package to repay money tax from car repairs and maintenance houses. That's a great move. We saw in the collapse that this returns, and it's major to take this into account, the cars came in afterwards, and this was one of the points on and considered. I sincerely hope that the funds marked by sports companies will be sufficient. The societal societies are many, and the business of some is bad, and it is no doubt that since income has stopped, they have become worse. I hope that this will help to keep most of them alive because we have to be ready to leave as soon as this is over. I also hope that the quality pack will be well-explored when it arrives, and we can work together on how we're supposed to be doing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u115	V.E.G. President. We're gonna go for a second. A senator had a conversation earlier today about the groups that may be more sensitive and especially in the difficult circumstances that exist today. I'm not going to go back to that discussion, but I'd like to keep the tradition I've had today and thank the members of the Committee for a very good job, a good solidarity, and a good input into all the discussions about the many suggestions that are being discussed here today, but we can't, of course, put it all together. I hope a dignified president respects it to me to thank you for this. When we have a positive spirit and a positive attitude, I realize in this discussion that it is even difficult for politicians to be in that position. Some have come to realize that it is even a document. I believe, however, that the nation needs the very thought of these circumstances, the whole nation, and especially here at council. It does not mean that everyone agrees. This was reflected greatly in the committee work, both in a given moment. The Economic and Business Committee and the Budget Committee. I appreciate that there's a very good thing about what's been in the discussion today, that even though it's not enough here to do, we can debate it, this is a very important step. They are waiting for this action, and they are large in scope. We can use some measuring measures in this regard, but most important is that we combine to do what is being done during this step. This may be most important, and it may be the solidarity reflected in the discussion today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists and joins him in a complete heart. This is exactly what we need to watch out for. Of course, I realize that the whole package is never available, we can't, that's impossible. But I have stressed and really hoped that in all this situation we are in now, they will never forget the most need for help. You don't realize what it's like to be in that situation. In part, I realize what it's like to be in the lowest pensions, and I can't get any living, and I'm in a position to have a house or a place to choose for food or medicine. It is a terrible situation, and no one is supposed to have to be in that position. I really hope that we can agree that this is the priority. At the same time, it would be extremely beneficial for the rest of society to see that no one needs to go to the church's help department, Mother Control Committee, or Iceland's Family Help. That people just had their money, could go to the store and buy the things they want, but would not have to get laid something they don't know what is. It sucks, and it's not supposed to be, and I believe we'll see to it that we're gonna change it, and it's gonna be quick.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u117	President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The budget for good work and good cooperation this week on all the telecommunications and all the hours on the screen. It's been a pleasure and a great success. It is a good spirit of the committee, and I think that it is generally acceptable what we are going to do and what work we will do well in the next few years, although not all of us may agree on the amount of money we will spend in the nine months that remain in the year, as expected in the funds and investment programme. We'll discuss the 2020 budget and a special temporary investment campaign created by Covid-19. Well, at the fundraiser, there's a lot of things. The government's investment package of 15 billion and more of the budget committees add 3 billion directly to the investments associated with this effort. In the so-called C-parties of which the state has ownership, there are about 5 billion. The budget adopted in December expected an investment in 2020 to over 74 billion. With the additions of the government and the changes in the majority of the budgets, this amount is over 90 billion, some 3% of the land production that is relatively high, relative to what we have seen in government investments compared to land production in recent years. It takes a considerable amount of time to see such government investments. I'm going to discuss here in particular what is involved in transport and what is the result of a greater part of the budget, the funds for transport reforms involved in the country's flying system. A greater proportion of legal committees suggest that 296 million flow to the national flying system. It highlights two projects, a new wearout at the Thors Harbor Airport, and finally, an assortment of the parking lot at the Isafjörður Airport that has long been waiting for. I have a feeling that for 40 to50 years, the parking lot has been malnibalized and has long been called after, as it is often a bad situation at a fine parking lot, and it is time to take care of it properly. In addition, a total of 90 million are available for maintenance projects of other airports and landing sites. There are tasks such as light equipment at the MAX, which play an important role, e.g. ... bya patientfly. Here, too, we should point to the Northground Airport. It has been waiting for the construction of light equipment at the airport rebuilt some years ago, where the local people and the government divided their investment between them, and it reminds me of the fact that 1,950 million have been placed in a bound fence at the airport. A portion of the 90 million budgets that come from a greater part of the legal committee, if agreed to do all of this afterwards, are also to be used for the implementation of light equipment on the North Sea. 126 million. K. So we're going to the Thorves Airport. There, the state of the airport has not been good enough, and it is time to reroute the runway, a runway, and the airport. The cost of beating the parking lot at Ísafjörður is about 80 million. K. ... andthenit's 90mL. K. in this effort to further the national airport in other ways, to cover large and wide. It is proper to point out the importance of rebuilding the infrastructure again. These fields, such as the Northground Airport and the Avengers, have been used extensively in medical flights and have to be properly equipped for both aeroplane light equipment and a good flight to the night. I welcome this project and the funding that comes from the greater part of the budget board. I believe this is at last the first step we have taken in repairing the interior of the U.S. Air Force. A report published in November 2018, in connection with a transport program adopted in February of last year, says that the maintenance of the international flying system has been poor for more than ten years and that 2 billion are lacking to improve the situation on the national airports. We're giving about 300 million to the national airport system, and I think it's the first step in that direction. More is involved in the majority opinion of new buildings and major improvements. It suggests that the old State of Seystústir will be rebuilt and that this project will be granted 100 million. That house was built in 1917, and A TVR has been holding a store in the house since 1960. It is also assumed that the Akureyri Hospital will receive 80 billion. K. to the complete design of the new gap block, but need analysis is complete. During the remaining nine months of life, the complete design for the work that awaits us can be started. In addition, the National Institute for Health and Health is suggested to receive 100 million dollars. K. For two clinics in Akureyri, emergency analysis has been completed, and with these funds designing can begin, which is truly enjoyable. There has been a long wait for new health care projects to start in Akureyri and for a single clinic today to become two. The agreement with the medical station in Akureyri is 22,000. It is considered most convenient in such a business to avoid much more than 15,000 people. The clinic at Hafnar Street in Akureyri has felt sad for a long time, and the need has long been made for construction at the station. The doctors'contracts at Akureyri clinic may be large, with an average of 3,000,3,500 doctors in common, but they are considered desirable to be 1,500. It's a big project ahead of us to get this done better. A greater proportion of the budget is also expected to be 200 billion. K. a contribution to the Southnesian Health Organization to improve the access of medical vehicles to the Agency's premises. There are 200 million that will be spent in a parish program that reminds me of 700 million in budget 2020, where there is a considerable addition. In the marketing of tourism, there will be a total of 3 billion, 1.5 billion market initiative within a country organized by a travel agency and then 1.5 billion in the market abroad and it will be controlled by the National Institute of Iceland. All I expect is that we will be able to cooperate effectively with the transport organization and the market services around the country. In an investment programme that follows this government bill, 50 million are expected. K. a contribution to the design of flight barns and highways at Egl's Standard Airport. The design of the manpower that is related to the project should now be done as soon as possible and thereafter. This year, at Akureyri Airport, the government's investment program covers 300 million and a new air base at the 200 million Akureyri Airport. Following the schedule set out here as part of a budget before 2020, a three - year investment plan will be introduced to 2021, 2022, and 2023 to a total of 60 billion. It will show how further funding is carried out on the work I listed earlier. These are the cases I've been speaking for a long time at the council, since I started here, at the first meeting. It is of utmost importance that we have built up infrastructures linked to air traffic in Iceland when we see the long future. What a joy it is to see these projects appear through the investment plans presented here! This is a gross estimate based on the investment campaign that is presented here to the level of some 500 to700 direct jobs, which then call for further indirect jobs. By what is related to the Ohf. and government and government, government, government, and adjunction from a greater part of the budget, this total is 23 billion, and this may be 800 years' work. According to the 2020 budget, 74 billion were calculated. During 2020 investments, but with the added addition, the government's investments are over 90 billion this year. That number is twice as high as the 2016 government account on investments that year, some 46 billion. This is a double in those years. Technical Development Funds add, in addition to the financial contributions, 400 million from the government, and 300 million from the greater part of the budget. These totals are 700 million, so this year's budget for technological development is set up at a total of 3 billion, an increase of about 30% between years. In the past ten years, this budget has increased by more than tripled at the price of 2019, making it stable to add to the important work being done in connection with the Technical Development Fund. In 2009, legislation on support for innovation was established in 2010. The aim of the law is to promote the research and development of innovation companies and thus contribute to the improved competitiveness of companies. The legislation means that innovation companies, owners of research and development projects that have been applied for confirmation of the National Research Centre of Iceland, Rannis, have the right to have special resources from the prescribed income tax. This support has continued to increase over the last few years and has more than doubled since 2016. This support is estimated to be about 4 billion dollars. in 2020, with a high rate of more than doubled since 2016. In the work of a budget committee last week, there has been a significant discussion of support to a innovation firm through the Research Fund and then the Technical Development Fund. The data show a great deal of growth in these issues over the last few years. Of course, it can be done better, it is being done, and the results can be expected in the years ahead. It is a great change and a joy to see the magnitude of the increase in recent years. This is an enormous task that we have here without condemnation, as is often said. Is this a matter done? It has been discussed many times here that we are not going to solve the issues that are being discussed today all the world problems facing these matters for the next month. This is a first step and very good and powerful, I think. In other words, we are switching our actions into defenses and protections and on the other hand in resistance. When it comes to protection and protection, jobs are being supported by the part-time process, additional loans to an enterprise, postponing tax payments, and special child support. During the next ten weeks, it may cost 20 or even 30 billion. The delay of tax pay may increase the financial status of an enterprise by 100 billion dollars. In addition to the increase in investments in the year and in the years that come, however, our actions are protected and protected by the ability of companies to make good use of what is expected to become when the storm becomes severe. With companies it is assumed that the next month's taxation rate will be up to a total of about 90 billion dollars. An additional loan with a Kingdom responsibility could study some 70 billion dollars. and partial improvements to pay the pay expenses, as I said earlier, could be received by 20 to 30 billion. In comparison, the banks now employ free deposit of companies at about 350 billion dollars. It's been hard to predict how many people make compensations. It has already been found that about 20,000 people, 10% of Iceland's workforce, in 3,700 companies have applied for an improvement in the Labour Office due to a poor employment rate. That is a huge number of people in the first few days. The cutback operation is designed to reduce uncertainty in both households and businesses and is therefore an enormously important and large part of the work programme being carried out. People who might lose their jobs become less workers, and they are committed to earning a living through temporary difficulties. This prevents more demand shrinkage than is already the case because of uncertainty. It is estimated that the tax remuneration will provide approximately 90 billion bucks. in the months to come. That's a tremendous effort. It can be assumed that over the next few weeks, at the end of April or in May, the large package will be presented for the next three years, the investment package for 2021, 2022 and 2023. It is followed by a long - term investment campaign presented here. We have a lot of big, exciting projects in those packages like Digital Iceland, and I think that project will contribute to changing our community. As we are getting to know each other these days, digital technology and a number of factors are changing things in us. I'm optimistic that we'll score much higher after some year on international arts about digital technology in government operations. I'm very pleased with what's been presented here, many of the big and enormous challenges we're going to face here, and it's going to be very exciting to watch how we're going to succeed in getting this money into work in Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u118	A respectable president. I recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to legalize the P.R. legislation with subsequent changes (the civil obligation of public employees). The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Hinrika Sólvína Sandra Björk and Sigríður Þórey Óskarsdóttir Wish Guðjónsdóttir of Justice, Bryndís Gunuga Gunnlaugsdóttir and Rós Sigmundsdóttir from Iceland's Union of Icelandic Company, Alma Möller Dagný of Pind from BSRB, Erna Guðmundsdóttir from BHM, Magnús M. Gunnarsdóttir of the Aðððnar Tursson, Ragnar Pétursson, Anna. The committee received reviews from the National Social Association of Iceland, the Coalition of Colleges, the BSRB, the National Institutes of Development, the National Medical Association of Iceland and the Union of Iceland. Because of the unique conditions that have existed in the community last year, including the U.S. The risk of avalanches, volcanic risks, and the epidemic Covid-19 is necessary to ensure a legal basis for transporting employees as needed or changing their duties so as to be able to respond promptly and safely when there is a medical emergency. The bill presents a change in the social protection laws, No. 82/2008, which includes permission for public agencies to transfer workers between jobs in order to handle hazardous tasks. According to Article 1. The bill is the civil duty of public employees to perform the public defense work at a time of crisis. According to the report on the bill, there is a time of crisis in the sense of the law when the State Marshal has declared the highest level of public defense under the rule of the P.R. However, the P.O. and the P.R. Regulation on the classification of public defence scores does not identify a definition of the term a time of crisis. In view of this, the concept use could be clearer to the Commission, but it cannot be considered to be in several articles of the law. The commission, though, is to be used only after the P.R. emergency has been declared or when it is imminent. Then a U.S. Marshal's declaration must be made. According to one report, the bill is suggested to ensure that there is room for public employees to move between jobs in order to carry out hazardous tasks. This can be done to request changes in job responsibilities and transport between work stations and workplaces as needed. The Committee considers that in an emergency emergency it is permitted to employ the public so that there can be a rapid and reliable response in temporary circumstances to maintain the necessary public service. According to Article 1, Article 1. However, the bill does not make it clear that workers can be transferred between work stations and workplaces. It was noted to the Commission that in general the personnel of the government had taken good care of changing jobs in the current circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic, but if there is a work station or a place of employment in other rural communities, transport might be burdensome for the relevant staff. Therefore, it is important to make clear that not only are changes in responsibilities but they may also include staff transfer between work stations or transfers between public organisations. The committee suggests a change in word. In 1st. The bill is suggested that the employee assigned to perform a changed duty maintain the same remuneration in such circumstances. Thus, the law is less than the law's law on civilian duty, which stipulates individual duty without charge. According to one report, employees are expected to maintain their remuneration but to be paid overtime if job duties exceed their standard activities increase. It is clear that the employee does not reduce his pay despite accepting less paid or less duties. At the same time, it is clear that changing jobs alone or the changing organization does not create the right to overwork. The committee was told that it is expected that if the work duties of the workers increase, they will be paid extra if they do not have room within the time of that job and where, taking into account the average value. The Commission agrees with this view and feels that such overtime is due according to the labour contract employed by the employee. Workaholics are paid overtime if they work more than a week's work responsibilities for or outside their day's work, while shift workers are paid according to collective agreements for shift workers. In the setting where the bill takes place, it is important to keep pay down as simple as possible, the objective of the bill is that public citizens can use their resources in times of need without wasting time on buying and terms. Then the committee stresses the underlying viewpoint of the bill that people take changed responsibilities to an emergency level and helps to keep society going, as they have done in the current state of life. Under the handling of the matter, the situation was highlighted when an employee is assigned a job that is better paid under collective contracts than the job he was hired to perform. The committee points out that the directive is activated only under very special circumstances, as previously noted, and is the purpose of temporary use of human resources, including some of the measures taken. on projects that must be carried out so that the necessary public service can be carried out. At the same time, the official should take into account the average rule of application of the source, including the additional responsibility for the staff. In an explanation of 1st par. The report on the bill shows that temporary intervention in jobs or change in job and work places under the directive is not bound up with the terms of collective agreements, as the civil obligation of the employees of the public. In some cases, it may be possible for employees to work where the pay is higher to form a teacher who is doing the school principal's job. In this case, the terms of local labour agreements may apply, but if not the terms of a collective agreement or other collective agreements apply to that job, it may be appropriate to pay the employee according to a collective contract or an appropriate pay party. The Commission stresses that in this situation, however, the distinction must be made between short - term assistance of workers in another field or whether people really do other jobs with increased responsibilities. The bill obligates to public agencies that may be burdensome for employees and it is important that all changes should be made in as much consultation with the employee as possible and that the individual factors should be taken into account at best. Although the authority proposed on the bill will only be used when necessary in the time of the PES emergency, it is important that the obligation to perform a changed job is not beyond recovery. Advantages also pointed out the importance of defense. In the context of the court - appointed committee what is stated on the bill, it is seen if an employee, or another person to whom he is responsible, deals with the underlying disease, or situations are otherwise in danger of a change in job, or health or responsibility. The committee considers it necessary to ensure that, under such circumstances, an employee is under the obligation of the law and suggests that the addition of that material to the bill will be made. Then the committee stresses that the needs of those who enjoy the ministry must also be taken into account. This report serves as a judgment of the circumstances in which services will be transferred from a service station to care for the day - to - day services of the disabled or the elderly. This is a major change in the circumstances of an employee and a client. There is much difference between accepting a job outside the home and getting an employee into your home. In such cases it is important to try to ensure that the necessary instruction is carried out and to seek to put as the most qualified employee on the job in order to ensure the best security of the staff and of the services involved. The committee claims that this case is being handled in an unusual time. For the first time, the highest level of public defense has been declared. The situation is laid out to deal with urgent and challenging social projects. As a result, there has been no time for extensive observation. Thus, in the opinion of the Committee, it is important to apply the directive to assess the results of the application and to take a position to see if improvement is needed when the situation due to the Covid-19 pandemic is over. Following the opinion of the case, the Commission gives ample reason to re-examine the P.P.'s overall review of the P.P. The Minister of Justice announced in the enforcing of the law and urged the committee to attack in preparation for such overall review at the end of the present situation. Finally, the committee reiterates that there is emergency measures that can only be activated in a public emergency level. Although individuals are generally willing to demonstrate flexibility and solidarity to cope with conditions such as the current epidemic, flexibility and efficient decision making must be ensured. However, because of the unforeseeable circumstances, conditions must be partially evaluable, while the committee emphasizes that all decisions should be made in a moderate way and that consideration must be shown in their circumstances. Then, as with many examples already being done with good results, the decision to change the individual's working conditions should always be sought. The Commission considers, in view of the specific situations and the overall decision to submit the right to the authority of public members to hide employees in the interests of public defence at a critical moment, temporary requirements that fall from date 1 January 2021. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. par. put it The law adds another provision temporarily, as follows: It is the civil duty of the public employees to perform jobs in the interests of public defence at a time of crisis. Officials are permitted to temporarily hide employees their changes in responsibilities and to temporarily transfer workers between work centres and public members to carry out activities that take priority at risk. Under such circumstances, workers maintain unchanged remuneration. Yet, an employee of the above - mentioned profession is his health, or other authority, so that his safety and health are put at special risk by assigning him to perform such tasks. This issue expires on January 1, 2021 Though a year's Ármannsson farm was absent from the case, he writes under authority at 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Under this, Páll Hrafn, Árnadóttir Kolbrönnadóttir, Birgir Ármannsson's Gunnarsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Jón Steinunn Árnadóttir, Mnæfán Ginnsson, Jándímsson, Steinnar Ánar Ánar, and Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u119	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The head of the General and Education Committee, for its well-history. The committee is in agreement with this case. She discussed the matter thoroughly or as far as circumstances would allow. This was made clear in the matter of why. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon that time was not as long as would have been ideal under normal circumstances, but circumstances are not normal at present. What's really happening is, what's wrong. The head of the committee was well informed that a new arrangement is set up that places additional responsibilities on public employees. We have in the Public Defense Act for Public Defense Authority, the Police Commissioner, when the highest level of public defence is applied, calling citizens for a specific operation. This bill goes further in order to allow authorities in charge of government and thereby have the authority to alter the staff's duties at the time of crisis. In itself, there was no disunition in the Committee that it would be right in every situation to resort to these changes, but I believe that the treatment and cooperation of the committee was just an example of the importance of our discussions when we want to agree to do well for the community at difficult times. The case changed considerably in the case of the Committee, becoming clearer and better. In my opinion, it was very important to change the law to the point that it would be a provisional arrangement. As we place increased responsibilities on people, we need to take steps to do so. For good reason, people fear that when government authority increases, they may become abused. I believe, though, that in general the committees did not agree that it was a real or imminent danger. Nevertheless, we see that in many parts of the world, there are many measures that are being taken to intervene in people's everyday lives. Where the extreme is going - and keep us from ever coming up - in some countries, countries that are not too far away from us - because of emergency and democracy. That is why I think it was very good, and I am glad that the views mentioned in the Committee were the opinion that it would be appropriate to have temporary regulations that, when this situation, hopefully not too long, will be possible to begin considering, as indicated in the Committee's opinion, the Law on Public Security in its entirety, and so on. Fortunately, there is a very rich will in society and in public employees as well as anyone else to assist in times of danger. I don't think it's the problem in itself, but it's very important that we can make these provisions permanently so that everyone is sure that the right thing is right and there's no danger of walking in it. I'm not saying I'm especially afraid of that, but it's important that we try such a procedure. That was how the committee agreed, so I rejoice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u120	A respectable president. I'm going to swerve a committee opinion from a welfare committee that has a change to bill to correct a change in the law on the provision, method of loyalty and security at work, No. 46/1980, with subsequent changes. It's about a release from CE marking. We got this bill from the highest. Social Affairs Minister Ásmundur the Einar Daðason of Daded, and they got reviews from Iceland's Medical Association, the surgeon of the U.S.A. and the partner of the Icelandic nurses. The bill suggests that the government's work programme, following a reasoned request, may allow the import of non-CE-marked personal protective materials to be used in medical institutions or health care professionals in this country due to the spread of the Covid-19 disease. It is suggested that the warrant be provided by provisional regulations on the law and on the basis of January 1, 2021. No. 46/1980, no definition of CE marking, but 1 mg. Section 48. The law comes even. to prevent marketing or implementing mechanisms that do not meet the safety, modalities, etc. which are placed on the basis of law or established standards that apply in the European economy common market. CE marking is the responsible declaration that certain products meet the basic requirements for European types that apply to them. The manufacturer is responsible for warning meets the requirements and is subsequently able to be confirmed by CE Witnesses following the tests and conformations. Subsequently, the product can be marketed in the EEA region. CE marking is not a quality proof of safety or safety. The label only confirms that the product meets the minimal criteria defined in the types of products that may apply. The report on the bill shows that its subject is in line with the Commission's recommendation from 13 March 2020 on harmonisation assessments and marketing monitoring measures associated with the impending risks of Covid-19. In this context, it is appropriate to follow comparable recommendations from 24 March 2020 to the EEA/EFTA countries. The directive specified that personal protective equipment is necessary for the pandemic by healthcare professionals and other interviewers and that their objective is to prevent the loss of personal protective equipment in the EEA region due to Covid-19. The criteria allow the requirements for CE markings to be used, but also require that such shielding be used only by healthcare professionals and not be distributed on the general market. The committee discussed some of the requirements for personal protective use for healthcare professionals, but the bill refers to a separate CE marking from the device. The Committee provided indications on the importance of ensuring that the source will not be used to import secondary personal shielding, the safety, health and life of healthcare professionals will depend on the quality and approval of the equipment authorised to treat patients with infectious diseases. Therefore, this must be the highest quality requirements and the equipment meets the CE marking shielding criteria and recognition for use in such situations at any given time. The Commission agrees with these views and the importance of ensuring that there is no lack of personal protective equipment but at the same time that such equipment meets the quality, safety and health requirements as non-CE-marked personal protective equipment is available on the market. The Commission requested further information on the planned implementation of the procedure. The committee was informed that a request for this is expected to always come from the health authorities or the head of the health care professionals' clinic as expected in ESA recommendations. Therefore, it would have to be expected that the health authorities, having agreed with the work programme, would import a reliable personal shield that met all necessary quality and safety requirements for such equipment. However, the committee feels that the health authorities will be permitted to assign third parties to import the shields to the same conditions fulfilled. In the treatment of the matter, the need to expand the range of values of the bill was considered, including so that there was also a license to provide access to the CE card for medical equipment. 13 mg. 1 1. Medical regulations, No. 934/2010, 9 mgr. Count 9. Qualifications for effective healing devices, No. 320/2011, and 13 mg. Count 9. Medical diagnostic measures in bottle, No. 936/2011, a national surgeon is responsible for the marketing and use of the medical equipment involved in the absence of CE marking if used for health care. The Committee received information from the Ministry of Health that these sources are thought to be relevant to the specific situations that exist because of the spread of the Covid-19 disease. So the committee doesn't feel the need for a change in this regard. A respectable president. The Commission then discussed whether the warrant should also include the operators who could be infected with their jobs and perform urgent tasks relating to the Covid-19 disease, such as police, rescue teams, funeral services, and even more professions. The report on the bill shows that its contents are in accordance with the above recommendations made by the European Commission, as per ESA 24 March 2020. ESA guidelines provide the above authority on how to arrange the purchases, ensure the quality and safety of the administration system, and ensure that it will only be used for health care professionals during the course of the medical care programme but will not be distributed in general. The Commission points out that the recommendation is in general a different part of the project but is applicable here in a country where circumstances are special because of the small number of people. It is clear, therefore, that governments must have room for other respondents to have a role in this, while at the same time ensuring safety for them and others, including appropriate personal protective equipment. It is in accordance with the above recommendations that those persons who have a role or are to be assigned a part of the government may also have a new personal guard that is not CE marked if they lack CE marked. On the other hand, the Commission understands that health authorities are responsible for providing such equipment for their members. According to the Committee, a change in 1 mg is warranted. 1st par. the bill to correct the imported personal shield that is not CE marked will also be used for the reactogenicity of Covid-19. The committee stresses the importance of interpreting the identity of the operator in this context, provided that the projects they perform or those assigned to be involved in the spread of the disease, and it is necessary to ensure their safety and the safety of others. It was also discussed whether to administer a separate CE markings protection device for private use. In view of the above, such private expansion cannot be seen to match Iceland's contract agreement with the European Economic Area. The Committee believes that the bill includes important sources which require the use of if there is a lack of protection for health care professionals and the operators exposed to contamination in their jobs so that their safety and others will be assured of the spread of Covid-19 disease. In view of the above, the Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the change, despite 48rd. can the government's work programme, provided a reasoned request, allowing the import of non-CE-marked personal protective devices to be used in health institutions, healthcare professionals' clinics and the party's response centres of the country due to the spread of the Covid-19 disease. A respectable president. It was a good cooperation on the Committee with the releases of this case, and everyone is on the committee's opinion. Hv. Senators Ingi In Kristinsson and Vilhjálmur Árnason were absent from the case, but publications under the authority given at 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Council of the Council. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. Others snarl. Council members are recognized as President Helga Vala Helgadóttir Helgaóttir, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Halldódra Mogensen, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u121	Madam President. There's a 2nd over here. Environment and Transport Committee bill to postpone rural election in the East. The case is entitled in the Senate bill to correct the change in rural government law, No. 138/2011. Which is known to be the most united four societies in the East. On April 18, the campaign continued, but this election has to be delayed for obvious reasons, and that is done with this bill. I'm going, with the permission of the President, to read a little of the 1st. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: ▪ Despite regulations 125. g. The Ministry is allowed to suggest that the establishment of a new community due to the cohesion of the Fundavogshrepps, the urban hippos, the River Valley province and the Seyol Fjords and the approval of the local government should cancel their decision from February 14, 2020, on what sort of community community unity will become valid, as per 1 mgr. The article. As a result, they all fall in touch with the Ministry's decisions, according to 125rd. in force, such as in the work of rural elections, including home - to - house elections, on April 18, 2020. The Ministry shall, with a proposal to prepare the establishment of the new community, make a new decision on how unity will come into force. Two. will be discussed as soon as the bill has been approved. Hv. The Environment and Transport Committee is united in the contributions of this bill, and therefore no particular consideration is required. When I made the statement last week, no one left. A senator insists that such a committee view be written. No discussion was also available on the subject, and it is to improve the report that this bill was cooperated with the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Union of Iceland, and the preparatory management of a new community because of the unity of these four rural communities. So I don't expect anything to change around the 2nd. which is going on here, and that's as long as it's spoken. I don't have any more to say about this, but obviously 3rd. I have thus, Madam President, concluded my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u122	In view of the unusual circumstances that exist today, the president considers that a state of agreement between the councils on behalf of the councils to be employed in 1 mg. 80. g. Thus, the variations and parts of the changes that exist in one language were viewed as unconcerned if no objections were made. However, adjustments in the 1st event, which contain new material, do go to standard votes, although they are intended for a solid agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u123	Mr. President. This is where we vote for the change of plans for the government's action package to protect the people and businesses of the country. We take protective measures to protect individuals and families in difficult situations, and we take up a job and a shop interview for Icelandic society. I'll support every change I make. The Economic and Business Committee, who believe, has worked hard on this matter. This first stage of the rescue operation by the Icelandic government because of the economic losses predicted by the crown virus will make the country much more important to secure the level of employment, to maintain economic activity in the country, and to ensure that there will be an international society that will come out of these catastrophes and that we can quickly take on the job.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u124	President. We're going to vote on a complicated bill with hardly a parallel. It is particularly enjoyable and important that all sides of the issue be met together. When there is evidence that further intervention must be made, it will be important to base on the solidarity that the nation has shown as well as on the council. Since there is no money to be paid to the companies who have the government's support for the operation, there is an important message to the community. This area is not to be lost but to make personal gain. With child - reformers, the State meets families that have had to work hard for many because of the epidemic's action and intervention. The importance of a special one-off payment for disability is also significant, with particular awareness that all the payments are tax and inadequacy. Then there's a sign of the movement that's about to be corrected by partial improvement for fish workers coming in here and that's fine. By this action, we send an important message from the council. The Congress and the nation must stand together to survive this attack. Governments will do what is necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u125	President. There's a lot of good in this government action package. But I'd like to point out that there's still a problem with nurses. Other countries have made stress payments for them, and this is where the smaller portion of the money is put in order for us to show the same honor. The government must start making a deal with nurses who haven't had it this year and who can't get signed for five years. The above I would like to mention that a good thing had been done, and it came to the committee that the business that is now authorized to pass through a business bank that means printing money - the state is turning in half. Clearly, in this traffic, it was not possible to ensure that the companies who have paid much money in recent years would need to bring them back some of their money. There is something that needs to be considered if further action is needed as well as that if nationally important enterprises are not standing up after this, the government needs to think about doing what is happening in the collapse and national use if they go into bankruptcy, keep them going, such as Icelanda and other nationally important companies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u126	Mr. President. The Central Party supports all the measures resulting in minimising the damage we are facing as a result of the traumatic events that are happening to us as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. We feel, though, that it is necessary to go further on these subjects. These measures are fine as far as they can go, and I especially want to see that it is important when it comes to the so-called additional loans to companies with state responsibility for a state of perfect transparency and that there will be good surveillance of options to eliminate any suspicions regarding loans and that companies will not be discriminate. It is very important that these materials are well handled and that monitoring is effective. As I said, we support these measures, but we do not consider them far enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u127	Mr. President. We in the United States support and support these changes. We also support other regulations on the bill, but at the same time we demand that the government come within a few days with a new package of action that is particularly involved in the management of the households and across the sex markets and a reduced proportion of women's activities, to be specifically handled by the local community and, above all, to look to small companies, independent workers, and delicate rods that need assistance to prosper in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u128	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The Economic and Business Committee for Cooperation in this matter and all the good staff that helped us make the Committee's opinion and the proposed changes. It's amazing to stand here and recommend postponing paydays and paying personal responsibilities to companies of state. These are strange times, too. Of course, I support our adjustments. The Economic and Business Committee puts in place, but I reiterate what is stated in the Committee and stated in this morning that this is not the first but the second step, and certainly not the last action we need to take. In particular, I would like to mention that we have to look more closely to professional groups where women are in much more. In the adjustments we made with all our hard work, we look especially to men class. I support the changes in our mind, but I wish that we too think outside the box to meet professional issues where a lot of women are working and especially the areas where we have had to close in these last days.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u129	Mr. President. We are behind this package of action and thank you for the good cooperation that has been achieved by the Economic and Business Committee in terms of these measures. However, there is no secret that we would have wanted to go further. We would have liked to take longer hours for our job life, and we would have particularly wanted to go further in terms of SMEs, especially the micro enterprises that are dealing with an extremely difficult environment. Today, the total loss of income is nearly complete, and the number of it is completely closed. It is clear that much more is needed there. It is imperative that these measures be taken immediately and that the government immediately follows these proposals with another package of action because these measures do not go far enough. They need more ambition.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u130	President. As with others, I would like to thank you for the cooperation of the Committee and the cooperation of my parts and more in passing through the issues established by the government and have made significant changes in the work of the Committee. In many ways, that work has been for the better. However, there are a number of issues that could have been solved much better, as I would have considered in advance by the Committee on Economic and Business. Yet, it is clear that more will be needed. The majority have suggested that circumstances will likely need more, that they will change, and that they will need to be evaluated. I believe that already there is much more to be done and we already have a preconceived operation that would result in a loss of response to the current situation and a predictable situation so that we don't need to take action when it is too late or they're starting to be less effective. Actions right away are far more effective than late ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u131	Mr. President. It is a joy to see that this seems to be a great agreement to accept these actions all and to try to supply blood into the main purpose of life's career. Despite the fact that I don't agree with all the suggestions shown here, I will accept this bill. I would have thought that in recent years and decades, and in this condition, we should focus primarily on achieving greater power in our job life and possibly meeting those who have suffered. I'm opposed to many of these suggestions, but I'll agree with them because the whole package is quite nice in many ways. Many of these suggestions are very specialized, and many of them go unfashionedly to various institutions of state that I would have thought would really have to support at this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u132	A respectable president. I think it is predictable that the health - care cost will be far higher than what is suggested to add to this change. For the greater part, the suggestion is to hold and improve the cost. As the trident reminds us of each day, we are still barely halfway there. As suggested this year, there is no doubt that the 30 billion people in the government will be able to reach work. There are a few adjustments that I think are over-thinking, like an increase in child improvement, which makes them happier, and directly reduces the system's use value to the equation, as shown in a state accountant report. There seem to be a number of things that seem to go sour without knowing how it goes beyond the individual population. It is important to keep our feet in the position we are in and to make decisions in order to make sure that we are directing money where they can best be used. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u133	A respectable president. Pirates and I stress defenses for homes, maintain public service, and create opportunities for the future. We will do this by providing additional and reliable medical resources, improvements in interest and housing, and related projects, and then extensive injections for new development projects. There we will seize our unemployment and have the opportunity for the future. As discussed here, this is the first action. If more packages are to be taken this year, these are the suggestions they come to build on, absolutely booked. As a result, it is only a very honest game to start with. We'll work it out definitely in the next few months, so I'm not the only reason to agree right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u134	Mr. President. We're paying a vote on the Neo-creation proposal of government opposition unless I'm in the wrong place. I hope at least That we are doing it and are going to talk about that suggestion. The entire administration site has gathered highly ambitious proposals in the fields of innovation, research, and creative articles. This is most of the change we make. Here we propose to raise roofs for the reimbursement of research and development costs that will carry on a number of projects to the country. We suggest that we almost double the technology fund compared with what was going to happen in the same budget. We contribute to research funds and infrastructure funds. We're offering half a billion in culture, sports, and art. There, we face a tremendous loss of income because of the epidemic. We are offering funding for climate and vegetables, as well as temporary down payments or reductions in insurance costs to small companies. These are cool and ambitious suggestions, Mr. President, and it would really be a pity to see them drop here today, just because they come from the government position.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u135	Mr. President. These are very ambitious suggestions for increased donations for innovation and technology. These are practical and practical suggestions that could be applied even now. In a crisis just as we are today, there is just an opportunity to consider what can break us out of this crisis when we are going to move forward again after we have been able to suppress the crown epidemic. These are powerful suggestions. I support them wholeheartedly, and it certainly disappoints me to watch the board and see that the greater part is not interested in supporting innovation and technology at these critical times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u136	Mr. President. I encourage the Senate to support this fine proposal of which the lesser part has joined together. The government's joined in. It is never more important than now, when we face a tremendous decrease in the economy, in the loss of jobs, and in other ways, in supporting innovation. New creation is the key to making it possible for us to rebuild our industry quickly. This is a very important proposal, and I am especially glad that we in the government stand have met on this. As I'm saying, I encourage those in charge to join us in this matter. The importance of each of us being together has been discussed by the directors. We have shown in our government that we have stuck together, and we are here to support the proposals of the government so that we would have chosen government officials to support us in this important matter. Of course I'm saying yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u137	President. It is unusual, for instance, that the administrative body votes against change from government opposition. Often, it's strange, but unfortunately, the rule is that governments are simply allowed to vote against the proposals of government opposition. So where the suggestions come from is important. Yet, I allowed myself to hope that in this case there would be a change, for much has been discussed about the importance of solidarity. The government has expressed the will and will also show him to work with the greater part of his efforts to cope with the present conditions. You would expect this to work in both directions, to be worked together, but to see here all the administration parts fail, apparently, the changes in my section, even suggestions to do only the things promised by the Ministers, I am greatly disappointed, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u138	A respectable president. This is the next proposal in the transition package of the smaller part, and it deals with transport projects, projects on the Smokejanes Way, Southland Road and Westland roads, planning affairs in the capital area, walking and cycle path, and the like. These are tasks that will be easy to follow, at least starting, and not being part of the problem of the investment campaign, all projects must be completed on April 1, 2021. Here are assignments that need to be started right away, even if they last longer. I definitely say yes to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u139	Mr. President. Today, the government's task is to strengthen the social support and attention of the worst victims. Therefore, the administration site suggests an increase in financial resources, reimbursement in health and social services that are in line for this aggressive virus, and an increase in contribution to health care services by 1 billion and additional contributions for growth and housing in order to increase the safety of less money. Older citizens receive comparable subsidies and disability, funding will be set to increase the MPA contracts and support for the families of children who are chronically ill. It is encouraged that treaties with health care groups will be promptly completed. Fellow feeling and cooperation must be the main theme of all government economic operations, and no community should carry too heavy loads in these times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u140	A respectable president. Here is the third adjustment proposal for the smaller section, the third package, which discusses the welfare issues. This is the part of the goods the Piratars have talked about, i.e. to protect your homes and to ensure health care. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u141	Mr. President. In particular, I note that in this transitional process the smaller part is proposed, i.e. the management situation, to be paid special stress to health care professionals who are now doing an enormously important work for society up front to take care of patients infected with the Covid-19 disease and provide them with health care in very difficult situations. A special donation of 200,000 dollars is expected. to this staff, who have done priceless work that we, of course, thank you very much for. I would also like to use this opportunity to encourage the government to complete contracts with these important classes, such as nurses, midwives, and medical staff, who have accomplished a priceless work as I said. It is prerogative, Mr. President, that these classes have not been negotiated, which have been free contracts for up to a year and now have to do this tremendously important work. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u142	A respectable president. Now, more part has canceled all the changes in the memory of the part, the Government of Katrín Jacobs' Jakobsdóttir who proclaimed a change in practice during this terms, increased consultations between more parts and smaller parts, but not even in a crisis situation that this can cause the administrative part to extend its hand to the smaller part and invite participation and cooperation of needed measures. The recommendation of the smaller parts was a failure to improve largely defective suggestions for the greater part. But the work is not finished, so it goes away. We're in an unprecedented economic crisis where we should all spin pies together, work together to provide as much resistance as possible in the problems we face, but unfortunately, we still see the same old tactics, still the same old targets, still the same old party lines. A word of the highest order. This morning the prime minister of the fact that a member of the Parliament was confined to his conscience only for the loss of his conscience. [[The president calls.]] That conscience is at least a veneer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u143	Mr. President. It's not always that I agree. paritaprevir The village of Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, but now I can say any word. A senator said. I have to admit that although relatively few things come as a surprise to one in politics, it is obvious that the administrative body has not shown any effort to meet the government opposition on these proposals all for improvement but now that all rejections from the government section seem to have been caused only by its source, even though it is a suggestion for carrying out what Ministers have announced, as if to create an act on the airport at Akureyri and in the Elis. It's now taken from the top of the board. A minister's request for what happens in 2023 is of no relevance in this situation today. We are making decisions about actions that are to be performed immediately, but the administrative body is going to make all such recommendations from the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u144	A respectable president. Here is the last chapter of the change that I have made, and it's about real estate and a number of things, as they have been traced here. These are some of the cases that are ready to be handled, making good use of at this time. However, the government decided not to take them into account for some strange reason, so when we see the next step in the government, I expect one of these projects to come in again. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u145	Mr. President. This adjustment of the memory of the part is an investment and construction proposal of 4.6 billion. and create precious jobs in difficult situations. She insists that there will be an attack at a nursing facility construction campaign for about 2 billion bucks. In addition, there are other projects that create jobs and are human resources, such as the support of rural activities, in terms of high environmental irrigation issues and the left greens, we should be supported by 300 billion. K. There's 300 billion of them. K. in the national parish program 300 million. K. ... inflyloads in Akureyri and Eglish Standard Airport and 100 million. K. ... intheairfield of Akureyri. All of this adds to the government's proposals to create more jobs. Besides, there are 200 billion. K. contributions to Technical School and then other smaller projects, e.g. Rebuilding the historic introductions of the Bessaver Church, construction of Hóla in Hjalta Valley, and construction of the National Museum. All of this creates work that is most important in strengthening and restoring jobs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u146	A respectable president. The measures taken here include those being taken at unprecedented times. has made a number of programs in the field of health care. Especially is it that, in addition to what the government has already suggested, the budgetary committee has added 380 million to its individual task force. I'd especially like to mention the construction of the Grensásið, which has been waiting for years and is long late. It begins in the summer, and it is to rejoice over the importance of the work being done there. Thanks, too. The budget for adding funding for business and implementation for the present pandemic. It is noted in the Committee that there will be a great need to add when we see how much this epidemic needs when it is due.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u147	Mr. President. In view of the discussion that has been presented here on this budget, which is expected to be the first budget of this year, 2020, I believe that there is a full reason to remind that the government that is now serving has increased the official investment of over 70% since its introduction. This was a firm decision to promote this aspect, and we are still doing so by agreeing with the extra funds. I also remind you that the annual contribution of 2020 to the healthcare system is about 28% higher than in 2017, I think most of them are covered. After a lot of talk about inflammation in the state business, I think that most people are covering this current government's focus, as well as the emphasis on making a targeted public investment. Because cards have been well maintained, there is still room for further action that will spread in the way this has been covered. I think it's important to accept these facts before the discussion of government investment policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u148	A respectable president. No one is overlooked that the effects of the chord virus epidemic are immensely high in society. Families all over the country have been affected in one way or another. Enterprises, especially travel services, have just turned aside and it is clear that their income flow is small or not even at all for the next few weeks and/or months. This pack of measures No. 2 From the government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, it is of utmost importance to maintain employment in the country. There are many and varied tasks. When it comes to the summer work of this group, as well as contributions to development, research and infrastructure, it's important that we make a lot of jobs. 2 billion environmentally throughout the country also create a number of jobs, contributions to the garden of Eden to increase domestic production, that I do not speak of contributions in the health sector of many countries. Transport is given a large share here. It ends with projects that are ready and are across the country. This is an enormous injection into the economy that is necessary, but it is important to take these steps and make sure that we are putting money where they will get to work quickly and safely. I say again that we're not finishing anything, but we came to see how the situation will develop over the next few weeks and we'll step in if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u149	President. I'm going to vote on this case like any other subject tonight. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir mentioned earlier that if they need a show, they'll be there. That's what it takes. It must be taken in a way that is far more decisive than is really to be seen. The government set out a list of proposals, not a list of each category, but suggestions that can be applied immediately. They are designed to add the proposals of the government in a clear way by action that is urgent. Nevertheless, they were all suggested, each one of them, from the top of the board of directors. Yet, we will stick to all proposals of the government, all that is designed to meet the situation. But there is so much more to it, and time is now, for action at the right time is far more effective than late ones. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u150	President. As indicated in both the bill's report and the committee's list, there was not enough time to settle this matter in the usual way. Hence, it is very important and positive that the committee has reached a joint decision to make the provision of a provisional principle rather than permanently attaching it to law. One of the points mentioned in the introductions to the Committee was that if people got a job that is better paid, they should be paid accordingly. In spite of the regulations of the bill, the committee considered the terms of a collective agreement to meet these concerns. This, however, is one of the factors that Piratar and I consider necessary to improve in the law itself if similar laws are to be made permanent in the future. So we vote with the bill, but we claim that it is in the light of circumstances and in the light of the provision of a provisional arrangement and the implementation of this year only unless we are able to achieve enough room for improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u151	A respectable president. I take it quietly to welcome the change that took place in the management of the General and Education Committee in the sense that what was originally a permanent change in the law became a provisional principle. This is of great importance in terms of a matter, as is shown in the bill's report, the public emergency contract, in a very short time, and it goes very quickly through the council. This is a matter of fundamental individual rights and such issues that we cannot permanently attach to law without careful thought. I believe that it is an important tradition to be formed at the council because the same thing took place in the case of an environmental and transport committee and changed for the last week in the process of temporary change. I think it's wise in a time of need, that we are not making lasting changes in the law without the oversight they deserve.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u152	Mr. President. I support this bill and this case. This made necessary changes in the treatment of the committee. It was urgent to make an arrangement for the provision of the provision of the provision. The law hides government officials in the public sector from broad sources at a time of danger. They need to think and talk very carefully with all involved matters. This did not allow time for this, so it is important that the provision of the arrangement is temporary and will be given material treatment if the law is to be carried out or changed. If he fails, the law will go down.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-84.u153	Mr. President. I'm gonna back this up, but I'm gonna make some comments. What I pointed out on the subject has not been corrected, this with the moment of danger. It is badly defined, and it is actually given to the State Marshal to determine when it has arrived. To say that this is only in an emergency phase is not as I pointed out in 1st. ... aboutthiscase. I want to repeat my other indications, e.g. About 20. It has to be fixed. It refers to county officials who have no place in the public defense system. There are also other things, such as. During the winter storm, we could mention that it had been fixed. There is no need for a public defender or a public defender in many communities, especially now when rural society is expanding, the office of police directors has grown in recent years, and communities are often under one public defence committee. In that case, no one may be responsible for a certain group member.
