ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-66.u1	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in pharmaceutical law, with subsequent changes, but it's a bill from then on. The welfare committee. It's a simple bill, only two articles. 1st par. It reads: The law adds another provision temporarily, as follows: Until December 31, 2020, the Marketing Authorisation Holder (EMA) shall be authorised to prohibit the sale and Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) spillage or transport of any available product from the country when it is anticipated that such export could affect the availability of the medicinal product on the land that life and health in man or animal could be compromised. 2.g. It reads: ▪ This law already comes into effect. Mr. President. This means that if such export is thought to affect the availability of the medicinal product in this country, it will be permitted to prohibit the transfer of certain drug supplies from the country by the National Competent Authority that there may be a threat to life and health of man or animal. Is here an attempt to deal with situations that may occur due to a so-called concomitant export. Although there is a warrant for the European Medicines Agency to deal with the above conditions using the specified market intervention which can be defined as the limitations of the free flow product in the European Economic Area, it is necessary that the national authorities have such a warrant. The law supports the renderings of Article 13. The main agreement on the European Economic Area including it claims that authorities are allowed to import, import or import a reserve or to justify a general moral, universal rule, public security, protection of human life and health or animal or plant protection, protection of national worth, having artistic, historical or historical value, or protection of industrial and commercial rights. Such bans or restrictions, however, must not lead to arbitrary discrimination or to cover up trades between parties. The above - quoted views must always be kept in mind if it comes to applying that authority. A similar provision is found in 3 mg. Twenty-nine. a bill to medicine-shaped. The welfare committee is already being treated. The bill has been based on the fact that its contents fit the Constitution and the European Convention of Human Rights, especially on the protection of property rights, employment freedom, and the prohibition on discrimination. It should be emphasized that the bill does not include the transfer of property rights. However, due to the limitations of the disposition of the prescriber and the Marketing Authorisation Holder, the selection of the products should be considered as restricted. The limitations of the bill therefore have to do with the right to determine when and which of these persons can sell the products decided by the EMA. Inhibition of the bill is a factor in reducing the risk of medication deficiency, e.g. due to epidemics or other occurrences at risk of drug supply in the country, based on public needs. These limits are essential in ensuring the necessary supply of medicinal products, which will be used preferably in view of the above mentioned cases, based on the opinions of human and animal life and health. Implicits required by the bill, i.e. the temporary ban on sales and export, is based on objective, objective, objective and general basis. In accordance with standard of practice, the EMA must be as mild as possible when deciding on the basis of the procedure, including the exact amount of pharmaceuticals, the amount of supplies, and the length of the ban. There is no doubt that in view of 65, 72. and 75. par. Constitutions. The measures taken by the bill are, in the above, considered to be administratively valid and meet the commitment of Iceland according to the European Convention on Human Rights. According to this, 2nd issue is proposed. since it's from nightfall. The welfare committee and the committee do not feel the need to bring it in after 1st.
