ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-63.u1	Mr. President. I would like to make a position for those or those applying for international protection for a subject, especially those on Ásb bridge. The U.S. National Institute of Foreign Affairs will certainly appoint citizens in the set-up Ásbek to handle business with their applications in the capital area, e.g. for the interview at the Foreign Institute, the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Red Cross, as well as for the services of expert physicians and psychologists. This is what I understand, according to international standards, which are good and blessed. On the other hand, bus maps are provided only in local transportation at the city city city of Rhinesville. Although this was enough to match international standards, I wondered, " Is this still enough for us to disrupt the social isolation of this group? ' It's been pointed out several times. So I direct that question to the highest level. Minister of Justice whether a minister believes that the option to provide shelterers saved in towns near the capital area is sufficient to allow public transportation within the community to be sufficient and sufficient to break the isolation of this group. I'm going to ask if a minister is trying to change this arrangement, such as. Those who live on Ásbek, in the town of Smokenes, find it easier to take advantage of bus transport to Reykjavík. This is important, for it has been discussed many times that, in fact, the trustees who live there live under much social isolation. Fortunately, it is better in various other living areas, whether they are driven by rural society or other sources, and that makes it important for me to ask the highest level of questions. Minister to this very matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-63.u2	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. It is always important that we examine developments in the alien law, not only regarding the protection but also the services we offer while people are waiting for that conclusion. Those who are looking for them need to be able to care for their concerns and to obtain the necessary ministry. Like wind, they are secured. A member of the council came in, to free public transportation as required by a foreign policy in the 28th chapter. says the word on transportation: The applicant should be assured of the international protection of public transport free of charge which may be the cause of their application. In line with this, those staying at the Smokeytown bus line for health care in the capital area will receive interviews and releases at the National Institute of Iceland and the interviews of a spokesman. At the same time, queer candidates get special access to a meeting or counselling at the Council of '78 and other so they're trying to improve a number of services that are not available in the local community that are discussed here. Of course, when we talk about social isolation, the fourth major country society with over 19,000 inhabitants is the country's population, and the town itself offers a wide variety of services and entertainment that those who seek refuge can benefit from what they choose. But here, perhaps the most recent form of service is not available there, as at the Council of '78, and there it has been the flexibility of offering to the bus for meetings or counselors especially there. The question is whether the preparation is sufficient to break isolation. I don't think it's possible to back up properly enough that there may be a call to live in solitary confinement in a large community called Smokejanestown, where there is a great service and there are no special plans to change this arrangement. Of course, we want to make sure that people can do their business and receive the services that are not available in that area and that they can use public transportation to use additional services only in the capital area. Since this subject has been focused on for some time and has changed dramatically in recent years, it is likely that we will always consider the type of service we will perform and how we will set priorities for it. I think there have been a number of progressive steps in this, and this is something we always have in mind. It has changed dramatically in the past ten years or so, and in the past five years the numbers have increased rapidly. Then you look at the financial resources that are available to the group of paintings and how you can make the best use of them so that you can quickly get the answers and can begin to adapt to Icelandic society but also have the necessary service while in the service of our institutions. It is reasonable to ask such questions, but as we have seen, there is no particular plan to change this arrangement. Here I believe that flexibility is important, as we can see about queer candidates involving a service that cannot be obtained in a Smokey Town, though it is a large community society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-63.u3	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for a good question. I would like to suggest that I really think it is important to discuss the availability of refugees to public transportation. I also find it very important to reflect on the question that I think we need to ask more and more, but here is whether it's natural that a Foreign Institute is the one that takes control decisions and the one providing social services and it all comes from the same pit. I'm not sure this is necessarily a good arrangement. I'm not sure that it may be necessary for the U.S. National Institutes to support candidates for international protection at the same time as making decisions as to whether they should receive international protection. I think this conversation needs to be done, but it hasn't been done with enough force and it's a policy that needs to be made. [[The president calls.]] So I want to ask the highest. Minister if there's any investigation in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-63.u4	President. Thank you. Árnadóttir For bringing attention to this matter and to the highest. Minister for good answers. In substance, I don't have much of the details. I'm only here to say that I doubt that many groups of society are more vulnerable and vulnerable than people who are waiting for a decision if they're the trustees. I think it's our responsibility from being human to do everything in our power to make the position of people in such a state as the most compare, whether it involves an increase in the streets here or there, the movie, theaters, or whatever it is. Imagine being in that position and thinking about how we would like to conduct our time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-63.u5	Mr. President. I thank them. Councilmen who entered the discussion. I always feel positive when that happens, and it'll be like a little special discussion about something. I always like to come up with more views when we're talking to ministers about it. Thank you, too, the highest. Minister for the answers. Although they're not exactly the ones I hoped for, I felt that they were the best. However, a minister has a positive attitude in his case. I also think it's positive that gay candidates get busies to attend a meeting in '78. This shows, however, that people are being selected for what is considered important if they are to get a bus to attend meetings and events. While it's positive and good, I think it would be much better if people could just choose what they want. We know that in the capital, there are all kinds of services available and all kinds of things that are not available even if a large community is involved. Then I'd like to mention directly at the end that I think there is also reason to add to Ásbek's situation. For instance, it is difficult to get into a gymnasium, so people have very little to do. [[The president calls.]] We need to add, especially with things that are not very costly, such as exercise facilities, so that people do not just sit in the air, stare into the air, and wait for their fate.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-63.u6	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for taking this discussion here and why. members of the council who participated in it. I think it's very important that we always look at all aspects of this law and the regulations that are under this suit. There are a lot of things to do, and it's very important that we think about it. This is what kind of service we're doing. Like what? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé came in when these people are in a very delicate position, awaiting the outcome of their case in Ásb bridge. In my opinion, there has to be a degree of flexibility to meet the need, as is not done in Smokeytown. You're right next door. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Arjörn's Árnadóttir that we're going to be a little selective about what we're in, but while public service is not available, we're still giving public transportation in the city of Rhojanes. Then came the reason. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir is also involved in another matter as to whether the service should be held at the hands of the National Institute of Iceland. This has been true here and in many places, but we can also see from other sources that it is in different hands. This is something I've done a little research on, but I don't know if it's been carefully examined. We would need to examine the experiences of other countries with different types of service. I know that the Foreign Institute is working hard to render good service and to be flexible in these very rules within the resources it has. Thank you very much for this discussion, and I think it's important that this is how we can discuss certain aspects of the alien legislature. The more often, the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-63.u7	A respectable president. I come up here to ask the highest. Minister Ásmundur Einar Daðason how to ensure that child - welfare agencies follow judicial procedures, ensure that interests cannot interfere with their work. I particularly focused on small rural communities, just in view of close ties and ties in such rural areas, where the chances are higher for conflicting interests to arise in the work of such committees. Child Welfare Committees are very important in protecting children's rights and interests, and I've heard the highest language. Ministers that he has the best interests of children and is now working to repair the child protection system we live in today. The reason behind my questions is still more than a few questions I've been able to ask about protecting children from violence in the Icelandic system, and I'm running away from a series of nonviolent lives that I helped get their inquiries into a so - called conquistancy costume. That question is one of the ones I feel that it is important to be answered. V.E.G. I'm sure a minister will inform us of the vital work going on right now and the changes in the water in his response to me, but I would also like to hear the highest opinion. Minister of the situation now, whether it is adequate when it comes to protecting children from violence, and that it is certain that conflict of interests will not lead to child protection. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: How do you follow the proper rules of the administration and other important guidelines for child protection? It's under the roof. The Minister's Affairs as it is today adequate? Is there a law against violating the rules for child protection against members of Child Welfare? How do present changes come to meet the flaws, if any, given the highest esteem. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-63.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. The senator asked the formal question, and then he asked an informal question afterward. As the senator knows, child - welfare laws require that child - welfare committees be independent and that they should ensure that the local government, management, or other members are not allowed to receive information or to influence the individual child protection issues. The law is very clear about that. In addition to this, as the senator entered, the Constitution of the administrative rights applies to both members of the Committee and those involved in child protection. The rules include that persons who are linked in some way should not be involved in the implementation of children's protection or take decisions in those where they have connections. These rules should ensure that individuals considered to be stakeholders are not involved. It is true that the senator points to, at the door, there is a large reexamination of everything that is involved in the service of children. It's being monitored today by the Children's Protection Agency. Although the law is clear, we would never have done this work unless I wanted to see it change. Part of the changes associated with this review is prime radios, which are now presented in the spring Parliament's Constitution, a bill of overall services to children and, on the other hand, of the bill that promotes increased monitoring in the welfare of children, and of the new thought to be introduced into this new bill that has been cooperated with all members of Congress and any department involved. Then there are new child protection laws that will deal with this, and this has been discussed with the European Union and with our rural society in general, including the United States and the United States. ... members of Child Welfare Services, that we anticipate the reduction and enlargement of child welfare committees, and that we make their work more professional. I think there's too many of them in this country today. It is, in fact, one of the impressions of this change, but the big change is also the increased supervision that we are going to achieve based on this new law, which is based on our thinking about serving children, not on the source of the ministry, but on the need for service. The systems are to speak from below, but when it comes to services to children on the surveillance team, they are to be able to perform it across the network as well. The answer is that this should be guaranteed by law today. I still want to see changes in the system, and I think that's what we all want because there's been a parapolitic community of participation in this work. I hope that sooner than later, we will see the first bill that turns this into the council and that we will see changes that will strengthen the child's position even more in Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-63.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I now want to mean that these are very formal questions with me and, in fact, just a small tip of what lay before me in this question period, which is to ask exactly how it is certain that the stakeholders cannot influence the work of the Child Welfare Committee. This can be done in various ways, and the stakeholders can vary. It depends on how we look at things. It is true that the administrative rights of the administration of child - welfare committees, as appropriate, are valid. It's like we're at the highest. However, a minister knows a rather strict requirement, not any acquaintance would be under the proper rules of the administrative court. However, it may be enough to interfere even with decision making on matters, public rumor, and so forth, so I asked a minister if he felt adequate surveillance, whether he felt that abnormal views or abnormal interests would not lead to decision - making in the case of children's safety and their protection against violence. I wanted answers from the minister if he felt that his present situation was adequate. In view of the fact that the whole system is being revised, I read between the lines that, of course, it's the highest. Minister it's not enough then. I'm still going to hear from the highest level. Ministers how a new system will respond better to the protection of children from violence. What about the changes in the water that will ensure that abnormal views will never work when making decisions as to how to protect children from violence? Also, I ask how the changes in the water are at the highest level. Ministers will increase child protection from violence.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-63.u10	A respectable president. Today, individuals can contact the Rapporteur who is the Children's Institute of Health or the Quality and Observation Services of the Ministry. What we are going to strengthen is all that is subject to surveillance on children. There should be more monitoring of legislation, whether as child protection committees or state institutions, partners, or others serving children in one way or another. Rules should be followed, and there should be stricter law against anyone who does not respect the rules. It must be mentioned in the bill that will appear at the council, but it is too much to explain it here in response to a simple query. When it comes to the way we are going to reduce violence against children, there is even a difference between the two of us. The new thought that we're going to one place in the country is going to gather all the statistics that attract children and hold them in close proximity to rural society. All government agencies and rural groups then come to shape predestination measures each year. It is also the core of this thought that will be accomplished at the first level in this new system, where each year we can use practical methods to reduce child abuse in various ways. There are many practical ways that can help to reduce child abuse. We should be able to achieve much better results. When it comes to situations where violence takes place, we can also strengthen the position of these children and expand our service to them, to those who endure, and to assist them. We too are strengthening. I think it's very difficult to explain this in a two-minute answer to a council inquiry, but I thank the senator for his inquiry. [[The president calls.]] The subject is urgent, and I would like to talk about it longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-63.u11	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for giving an answer to questions that I suggest an oral answer. They have to do with the safety of the employee. I wondered if there's anything in the dough about changing the law No. 80/1938, about union unions and labour disputes, where they are of a kind, so that the rights of workers at employment markets are increased to professional sources for reporting employees, that employers will be made obliged, in effect, to determine the subject and inexplicably from the source of information. Interestingly, on a global scale Iceland does not seem to be doing well with the security of its employees. In fact, as in the present country, only confidants, parents in maternity stores, and pregnant women have some kind of security, but these groups are prepared to defend themselves. There are many accounts about this. Iceland has validated a far fewer approved International Employment Organization than its neighboring countries, the North countries. As long as the North countries have validated between the world's holding of the 20th century and the United States, we have an understatement of approximately 22nd Is this not a concern, chief? Minister? Is there no reason to respond? The questions I choose to ask the highest. Ministers are here to see if the plan is to re-examine the union law and work disputes, then, in the light of the international releases that we have considered for several years and 35 countries have already agreed, including All the states of the North, in their own way. If not, the Minister intends to employ a review of the individual aspects of the law, e.g. Important factors in which differences have arose in the rights of public employees and those who have been considered to be in a special legal position at work, e.g. sponsors? Does a minister believe that the workforce rights of the people are sufficiently committed to a professional driver when it comes to reporting from sources? Does Ministers believe that the law should be clear that the employer should distinguish objectively, materially and thoroughly from the reason? The International Release says so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-63.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. Guðjón The Brjánsson of this inquiry, and to begin by saying, as he says, that social union laws and work disputes are now in 1938 and are now over 80 years of age. It is obvious that much of the law needs a review just to survive the test of time. It is also this way, and it is appropriate to draw attention to it even if it does not have to be done with the senator, that the regulations in the law have to do with the layoffs and conditions of the public labour markets, but the requirements for the public market are clearer. The senator wondered if there is a complete review of these laws. So far, they haven't had an overall review of them. The workforce's partners have not formally asked for such a full reexamination, but it is reasonable to be able to create the biographer agreements a special provision to consider the entire environment, not just a collective agreement, but the environment that this law on unions and labour conflicts create for us. Thirty-three. The biographies are saying, by permission of the President: The European Commission and the workforce work together to develop green books on the future environment of collective labour agreements and labour markets. The Green Book will be submitted to the Council for review before making policy decisions. In this way, we are making a commitment in a certain way. In fact, it was also the focus of the government that this work would be carried out, but it has not been established in the past for the overall review of their laws. I think this green book will be discussed because I think a lot of things need coverage. The labour market partners negotiate the purchases and terms of a general labour market and, as the senator knows, the law allows for certain minimum rules. I will see what comes out of the conversation between people, whether it is a real will to change that. [[The president calls.]] I'm not necessarily sure it is, but I think it's okay to take the discussion about it, and I hope it will be done in the process of the green book.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-63.u13	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. But what about validation accepted by the International Work Programme No. 158, about the resignation of work on the part of a professional driver? 35 countries have already validated their approval, including The northern countries of Sweden and Finland, and Denmark and Norway are based on conflicting rules. We have only adopted this in some situation and, as it were, in the highest degree. A minister entered a disagreement on this matter. The workforce has been handled with silk gloves. It has been thought that this will make work markets less flexible. The main topic of the agreement is not complex. There are three of them, it is mandatory to back up an employee's resignation if he wishes to do so; there is no way to reveal it to an employee unless there is a valid reason for it, and it would be agreed on what is not enough to resign from an employee. That's what they've been burning up in a local labour market. In large areas of work in my district, people are afraid of losing their job. This approval also includes a specific treatment system, it must be done by specific techniques and allows people to account for their affairs. I also point to the highest. The minister must, and he no doubt remembers that in 2010 he proposed a judicial decree, at the 139th legislature, where he strongly proposed that this agreement be introduced. Has he changed his mind? He is now in a position to introduce this approved International Employment Organization. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-24-63.u14	A respectable president. As I say, I want to thank you. A senator for the record. I think it's right for the senator that when we talk about songs that are 80 years old and that we don't have a complete retrospect, it would be positive if we went into them. That's why we're starting a conversation with the labour market members about this aspect. We have stressed that first we should complete the direct action related to the biographies agreements. Government leaders recently discussed with the leadership of the labor movement that we wanted to start as soon as possible the work that attracts the green book. Regarding the validation of the approval, the minister accepts the encouragement that comes from the senator to begin a hearing. We might be able to do that through the book. With the proposal adopted by the government and entered after a conversation between the labour market partners, the Green Book will be submitted to the Council for discussion before making any decision-making decisions. We have made a commitment to start a conversation with the labour market partners. I think that's just very useful. The Senator also enters professional flexibility. Many modern forms of employment have taken place over 80 years ago, and I think it is safe to say that the need for this flexibility is not the same as it was 80 years ago. Even though we are always talking about our failure to stabilise the situation, in recent decades we have been able to create more stability in a Icelandic community than when these laws were written 82 years ago. I thank the senator, and the minister takes this encouragement from him. paritaprevir The Guðjón of Brjánsson with him in the Ministry.
