ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u1	A respectable president. The government recorded things, big and small, in a covenant when it allowed the world's backbiters, including the rest of the world's population. that the Ministry and government agencies should work to define and advertise jobs without location to the highest extent possible. As a result, a targeted ground goal was followed to the end of 2024. It set the criteria that 5% of all advertised jobs in councils and institutions should be without any specific location before the end of 2019 and at the end of the period 10% of advertised jobs would be free of location. These are not radical or decisive plans, and this is what has been done, plan and speak. However, a team was appointed midyear last year, which was supposed to be investigated and proposed to the joint action programme of the year-to-year strategy. And where, then, would this be? There's a good thing coming, and there's no news. A survey of the state's location since 2014 shows that the percentage of state-based status values compared to the population is highest in the capital area than in the Westlands, followed by Southland. More recently, the Economic Association of Western Societys continues to confirm the changes in public activity in the period 2013 ◯2018. They have not been reduced to as much as in the western part of the West, nearly one quarter of the Stykkisolmi, are available in the Havenlfjörður, Snæfellsville, and Ak Aranes. In fact, a similar trend exists throughout the country, with occasional variations. However, official work increased in the capital area by nearly 1,350 during that same period. A respectable president. Is it any observation that if any of the goals on public employment are not met, then the government might as well start shoving up the sleeves?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u2	V.E.G. President. On May 31, 2017, an agreement was adopted at the General Assembly of Congress on Braun in Oxnadal, located in Parliaments. Since then, nothing has happened in the face of inquiry here at the General Assembly. I think it is time to remind you of this interpretation in the hope that the current education and cultural minister and environmental and resource minister will take the conclusions from their drawers to its progress. On May 26, 2003, the cultural community was Braun Ehf. Establishing. In that same year, the earth was bought in Braun, the Valley of Axen. According to the approved society, the purpose is... ... topublishedtheEnglector to Braun in Oxnadal related to the memory of Jónas the son of Hallgrímsson, presenting to us the work, the life, and the work of the poet and the naturalist. From the very beginning, civilization has been at work in a variety of cultures. The Festival of Tabernacles is held each summer, and there has been a seminar, Jonah's watches, and so forth. For 2011, the cultural community received a contribution to Handicaps, which became the basis for building on the site. In 2016 the Society received 5 billion. K. the budget that made it possible for the company to carry out the necessary maintenance projects. An intensive - care unit has made a contract with the organization and has strengthened its activities each year. The board of directors met with an open policy meeting last week. There was a clear will for a powerful building project on Braun Valley, the birthplace of the poet, who also plays a prominent role in the minds of the Icelanders because of its unique beauty, with test subjects as a head sign. A prison must be a cultural home in which Jónas's contribution to the Icelandic language, to natural education, and to politics must be honored and shared. It is absolutely true that the memory of Jónas the son of Hallgrímsson has not been put higher below the head of the Icelandic state. I challenge the privileged minister to act, to honor the memory of the poet, with a more powerful building, to prison in the Valley of Axen.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u3	Mr. President. Maní Shahidi says for the first time in his life, he feels safe and free. He came out of the closet as a trans boy here on land, something he had dared not do before. Why does that happen here? Because, unlike what had happened in his former homeland, Iran, he had the confidence needed to be himself, apart from the political persecution that the family faced there. Maní here applying for asylum with his parents. According to the news, he has not been allowed to comment on his position with the authorities who decide his future here. The children's covenant shows that children should be allowed to express themselves when it comes to decisions that concern their lives. All 12 - year - olds have the right to express themselves according to the covenant. The law on foreigners says, by permission of the President: A child who can develop personal opinions should be assured the right to express himself in a relevant language, and this should be taken into account according to age and development. The 17 - year - old Maní has not received so much as one question from the Icelandic authorities, as it were. Mr. President. This boy has entered BULG because of serious mental health problems, and he is cured of being sent abroad. In addition, the reality of which children and other people, queer people in general, live in Iran should affect our attitude toward this matter simply out of humanitarian viewpoints. There is a request to make the matter come back. It seems, however, that the government will not postpone the implementation of the previous decision. Rather, he wants to bring his family back to Portugal before the petition has been made. The legalist of the family says that when it comes to condemnations, especially in the case of family members, this should lead to a postponement of exodus until the conclusion is established. Governments are bound by the children's covenants, and equality should apply to all children within our jurisdiction. It's all about equality. How does the 17 - year - old Manís handle this provision by the government? What's the plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u4	A respectable president. I think it is a reason to bring the seriousness of its subject to the attention of the United States in the second year in which there was such a fallout. A new report has been made available to the Western Islands for its consequences, and similar history may, of course, be applied to the Far East, with less than 60% of the resources available in fur, 30% in the Western Islands, and 27% or so on in the Far East. So does horny fun here. I just wanted to name numbers, so people could see what's going on here, according to the report made by the Western Islands. Excavations themselves in the Western Islands became 7.6 billion dollars. Let's take. In the island, other companies of all kinds of support grew up to over 900 million. In fact, over 160 million were lost, and unions and pensions became equal to the sum of over 160 million. In the Western Islands last year, a total of 350 employees were directly affected by a billion hairy income. This is the equivalent of some 60 years'work in the Western Islands. If we apply this to Reykjavík, we would have had 228 billion dollars of our company in Reykjavík. Takes and 1,800 jobs would have been lost. And what is the lesson of all this? She is likely to continue looking for the fur so that we do not get into the same thing as in meeting lateers, where they were heading for 20,000 tons of fishing, but when the companies themselves started a further search for a hairy one was added another 250,000 tons. The lesson is: Let us not stop looking until we are fully tested.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u5	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Brjánsson's opening talk on this program will include work without location and activities throughout the country. That's a reason to agree with that. Of course, there is a growing number of people involved in public relations and, in fact, others who are not bound to a specific location, capital area, or other places. Of course, it is important that public members, departments and agencies hear them, be aware of the possibility of this area, and make it possible for others to take advantage of the flexibility and benefits of performing tasks regardless of their location. Of course, it can also be said in this way, in view of the reality that more work can be done in behalf of public authorities, public agencies, from places other than Reykjavík. That's it. That's it. A senator of many things has been planned on the part of the government in these matters, but he did not know that today in January the highest standard was stated. Marine and agricultural ministers from the start of a project with their institutions to implement the aim of increasing the number of public jobs in the country. In the next three years, the minister set out a plan that is not limited but that can be financed and cared for how this will be done best and should be welcomed. [[The president calls.]] Of course, the minister may not necessarily suggest an increase in public employees but that these institutions may take advantage of opportunities to hire employees who are located elsewhere than in Reykjavík. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u6	Mr. President. It is to carry in the packed stream to point out another necessary government payment team, but I'm going to do it anyway. There are 250,000 known archaeological sites in Iceland and 30% have been registered. Some of these registrations are out of date. This was shown in response to my query from the highest level. To complete these registrations, a minister and owner must have a view of 2.5 billion. So far, this was the legal obligation of community planning to do this, but it has been very difficult and has gone too slow. Thus, the Commission's rules were changed in consultation with the European Union, allowing local societies to record archaeological findings and urban areas, but not elsewhere. So this will not solve the registration problem for now. It focuses on ancient remains, environment, peaceful areas, and national parks. Of course, they lack a lot of archaeology. In these cases, the lack of money to the Minjah Institute is obvious, so that if money was added to the Minning Institute, ancient monuments could be recorded faster than that, Mr. President, a window with a set open window, for under national law, take care of them for projects there. We now have less than a billion a year from Landing. I simply suggest that a table be served there and that portions of this money be put in the archaeological registration. Of course, it takes to change the budget and set it up on budgets. It will take a very long time to finish, but it would be possible to strengthen the first steps by looking into this fund. We can call him a national treasure.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u7	A respectable president. Today, there is a vote of honor for new ones, where delegates throughout the country traveled far and wide, meeting, and taking up houses in the local population. Many are concerned about the status of agriculture and agrienvironment schemes and the prospects for rural life. It should be clear to most people that if the need is not properly addressed, a review of the regular agriculture work will be carried out. For example, the management environment of carnivores in the meat industry needs to be developed. reviewing by establishing a work environment to which the milk industry is authorized. Homework may be an important factor in promoting innovation and development, but it also needs to reevaluate regulations that, unfortunately, are costly and difficult to deal with. Feeding livestock at home is allowed but only for home use, not for sale. Homework from A to O, slaughter, processing and sales are permitted everywhere in Europe. Why can't we do the same? After all, if we do not work the same routine as our neighbors in Europe, we will do. To help me determine how contrary this is, I'm going to take a small example of hunting on wild mammals in this country, i.e. reindeer. The nature of the matter, they are buried away from carnivores in God's green field. The animal is then transferred to the meat industry where the final waste takes place, depending on the specific rules, of course. But when the time comes to lay a sheep and take a product to the consumers, the problem is problem. The answer is: No, you can't. Matis' former director put this to the test in the fall of 2018 and was charged with the failure of our regulations. As a result, a report that has not been published for some reason, I know best. A respectable president. Our arrangement for today, the easy way for farmers to make things better, for there is no relief.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u8	A respectable president. In the news of Station 2 last night, there was a news report that a young boy's rights were being grossly violated. A word of speech said there, by permission of the president: We had five days, and no matter what we protested, they did not listen, but until then they had always worked with us. It's where everything had been wiped off the board. We were told that if we didn't take this route they offered, i.e. to the hospital and nursing home, we would no longer have access to the temporary staff. There was a violation of the law, which is made clear by the social ruling committee. The story continues, with President's permission: Since December, it is stated that the decision of the WCC has been in a way of inconsistencies with the law that it cannot be undone. The decision has been made without consultation with the defendant's parents, an investigation that was not satisfactory, and the right to protest has not been taken. And the pieces went on. This young boy was also forbidden to go to high school. Let us review the United Nations Convention, Article 9. on bioavailability, which states that Member States should take appropriate measures to enable disabled persons to live independent lives and to have a full share in all aspects of life, i.e. Factors aimed at ensuring that the disabled are bioavailable to others as well as to the material environment. Prior measures should include Rather, it involves efforts to eliminate obstacles and barriers. The gross violation of the rights of this individual is not acceptable. That this young boy has the advantage of being saved in a nursing home for the elderly is absurd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u9	Mr. President. First, I'm going to quote the text of the Road Type on the classification of the road system, from the 2017 road file, by permission of the president: ▪ Stiffways are part of the basic transport network as defined in each transport plan. For starters, roads are linked together to our country's settlements. To such a road system, urban areas should be connected with about 100 or more inhabitants. According to the same report, the founding system is 416 miles away. It should be noted that for starters, highland roads are certainly not open all year. The roads in Iceland are certainly indiscriminate. In general, many places are acceptable. In the road system, however, the chapter is extremely dangerous. The highway from Mount Storm and south to the Valley of Brenuvík is one of them. These roads travel around 7,500 fish and freight trucks every year. Around this road, road transport is heavy on both buses and private vehicles. It should be noted that Alcoa's employees often travel that road every day. A summary of the EuroRAP in 2009:2014 shows that this road along with the road from Fellatown to the Ulfsafa Ways, they are chapters in the Icelandic road system where most accidents are due to traffic weights. This road, part of the ring road, is the so - called old South Coast Road. There are three of them on the east, across the Dalsau, or the River of Saevar, or the Tung, in Tasunda, and Brarrá in the Hafnarfjord. The most dangerous part of this road is from the corners of Carnival and beyond the island, or a chapter of about 10 miles [10 km]. This road is narrow and old and follows landscapes like a sheep's canal. Roads are high, and automobiles tend to lean toward different directions with the immediate danger. This drag can't stand a moment. I'm out of time, Mr. President, and I'm going to end up saying, "The children are also driving between Breurfjords and Breurdal every day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u10	Mr. President. It's not too much to say that the most fun part of Congress is to go to the ballroom, and it was the second at this assembly. The first is October, and the second is always in February. We left the green, so we split up, heading east and west, as we called it. It was an amazing pleasure, for me at least As a member of the North Eastern District, beginning in the South, heading south, and ending with the Cape, and setting them up in my own ideal case when we arrived in Deepavog. We received a very positive welcome everywhere. As a result, there were health ministers and environmental ministers, and I found great comfort in finding the good currents that left people we visited, whether in companies, institutions, or in general open meetings. The big lines were like always transportation. We know that transport is in order because of the need to build up other services. We were reminded of it from the east, e.g. that SSA approved for transport should be valid, not something that a unique rural society stresses. We visited the avalanche parks at Ness shop, and we saw the monumental monuments there. We went to a huge construction company in Selephoss, where I found it very interesting to see the importance of quality witnessing, in human resources. There we met people who had worked there since they finished learning and who had served for 30 years in small employees. We enjoyed many things, but we received more information about them. I have to say at the end, a respectable president, that for a central highland park, because we have been subject to differences, that we have been very well-involved there, especially in the Lakewater district, since they know what the matter is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u11	President. The battle between individuals and businesses with the government takes on various forms. In our district week, we visited a company south of Smokeynes, who practice landfire on pink. This company was here for a few years ago when it was in the starthouses because it happened that the terrible Entets were suspected of owning 2% or so in the company and the left part of this seminar was at heart that this company was supposed to be incarcerated. Now, however, the company that has become the manufacturer has become more than 3,000 tons of pink and rainbowy and has a double estimate of its activity. It's a highly environmentally-friendly operation and recycled process, including 75% of all water used. It takes this company three and a half years to get to grow, i.e. to get permission to do so. There are three causes; the Organization, the Agency, and the Food Organization. An organization will take over a year and a half. The EEA takes six months and then comes the laps, which we are responsible for: there is a license and license to be advertised at the same time but the license is at Matis, and it takes two to two and a half years to have that permission. That means that this company that is growing, this is not a new project, needs to wait three and a half years just to try to get into investors and keep going. At the same time, Matis is a dog-hunt who has worked for the responsibility of having a few pink spots in a pond on his property where he runs a business that basically belongs directly from a farm and therefore does not belong to a Food Institute. For a few pinkies, he's supposed to pay 500,000 bucks. ... ina treasureofthecreet. An animal would hunt every bit. Otherwise, he has been ordered to empty the pond already. It's a little awkward because she's under the ice. The Agency is now going to show up with dynamite to replace these household pinkes. Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] What is the priority of this institution, which waits for two and a half years with a big firm but spends time chasing a few miles north of the country? It's a pain in the ass.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u12	A respectable president. The plan is that we are entering a cooling economy after the waves of the past few years. Like the humble ones who have walked over the land, our preparation, the softening effect of the depression, is of prime concern. The right decisions can break down. The government has already responded by increasing the budget and construction process, but more is needed. More valuable things are needed in the country. The new industry that has been building up in the past decade is the fishing industry. The export value of fish farms last year was about 25 billion dollars. Thus, the value was doubled between years. It is estimated that if the production goes to the quantity of vehicle tolerance, the export value value will reach 65 billion. Then we could further increase the activities and value of the fish farm by increasing the full - time work of the economy and then multiply the activities that are involved in this industry, just as the movers have succeeded. Investments of up to tens of billions lie in the article, and further investments await further permission. We also need to be mindful of the inside. Building a relationship with fish - based communities is essential for the implementation of these sectoral elements. A treatment strategy assumes that the network of transports on the West will be established within five years, but we must not stop there; rather, we need to consider maintaining and rebuilding road roads between urban areas. Fish farms are clear, society ready, now a song. A respectable president. With the impending economic depression, we must pay attention to the fire of the fish. We must strengthen surveillance and licence agencies so that they can carry out their work safely and safely, and we must make sure that the rules of play are always the best available science and research.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u13	President. Large plans are being made to increase carbon binding through forestry. Forest settlements and landowners are aimed at planting forests to bind carbon. But that's only half the story. Some basic factors need to be considered. True, time is working for us when we think of forests in Iceland. We have plenty of land, and deforestation is excellent. There are factors to look to. The forest maintenance and the gauze need attention. A tool must be available along with the rest of the people. One factor, though, is high, but that is a huge amount of electricity. It keeps growing, making plants, plants that plant plants grow, and plants that do not carry themselves well or at all. Forest development should be economic, environmental and social sustainable. We know that the production of domestic timber and other forest products leads to building, creating jobs, saving currency, and reducing the introduction of ecosystems on a timber, thus making the benefits unequivocal. In this regard, the balance of electricity costs cannot be avoided. The government must fulfill its big words. It is strange that it is still that large users of electricity have to pay more for their use just because they work in rural areas. It applies to all the people who operate in the basics of industry, and that is certainly a forest prayer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u14	Mr. President. Reykjavík lists 179 children in its middle school, not knowing where to study. This was shown in a memo written at school and vacation meetings for a week ago. The city intends to look into this further in cooperation with the Ministry and hopefully, and hopefully, most of the natural explanation is given. This probably shows some slowness in the system, i.e. delays that may be included in a home registry, especially in people who often move between people, disappear, e.g. because they live in an unsecured rented home. But what these figures from the city reveal is a measure of concern. Our system seems to offer loopholes for children to miss school without necessarily revealing it. Here the need to stop and make sure that society depends on the basic obligation to ensure regular attendance of children. 179 children missing school are too much for 179 children. Once cases of normal explanations have been cleared, such as since the registration of a home, how many children are left, and for what reason? Is one of them going through chronic illness and therefore unable to pursue regular education? I wonder if any of them are hard students who have given up in school. How many may disappear from the education system because of parental decisions, and for what reason should parents choose to take their children out of public schools? Then there are the children who because of various reasons and circumstances simply decide not to attend school, such as through resistance or opposition to parents and the system, especially during adolescence. I see here the Minister of Education in the gym. I hope the Ministry will respond to Reykjavíkurburg's request to examine this important matter into the background.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u15	A respectable president. By permission of the President: I came to Iceland, where I first got to be myself. I got to be free, and I'm proud to live in Iceland, grateful to be able to live with these wonderful people in that wonderful country. No one said that, a respectable president, so I know. This is what I would wish a 17-year-old boy from Iran would say in the future, that this was the truth. I'm sorry. I'm not. Maní, as we know, will probably be sent abroad, I don't know what to save him from this because I know how our system works. This is not the first and unfortunately not the last thing we see like this. When these issues arise in the media, we should think that there are people around us--even if we give up that Maní doesn't get us anything, something we shouldn't think of me, but let's give them our fun, just for fun--that there are people around Maní who don't want him to lose out of a country that wants him to have here, who care about him. But he has to be sent out of the country. Why, Mr. Honorable President? Yeah, because the law says that and that. But why, Mr. Honorable President? Well, because the Dublin rules are Blah, blah, blah. Yes, but, more dignified President, why? Why can't he stay here? That is because we have made booths, sometimes called after being reduced or reduced, in order to keep people out of the country, to cut off and block the freedom of people whom we enjoyed and enjoyed, and they would benefit and enjoy being here with us. If we were to start thinking only of foreign affairs so that foreigners are really people who even the Icelanders could love them, we might think of the system differently. But to hide us indefinitely behind the law code covers the question that we should ask ourselves when thinking about these matters: Why does this need to be so? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u16	Meeting arrangements are made for the discussion. The minister has ten minutes to history, and two minutes to the end of the discussion. Also, a representative of the left movement has a "green supply " requesting the report, two minutes at the end of the discussion. On the other hand, there was a divided talk period between members of Congress: the left movement, 13 minutes green supply, 12 minutes, the middle party 11 minutes, the Independence Party 18 minutes, Piratar 11 minutes, the forward party five minutes, Refunning nine minutes, the Group eight minutes, and a member of Congress outside three minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u17	A respectable president. This will be my report on the digital redundancy of Icelandic printing, with reference to Parliamentary Rearing No. 20/148. The remake of Icelandic printing involves moving older print jobs to digital shapes so that jobs can be read online equipment so that all the people can access their contents. The purpose of this report is to account for the cost-and-time plan for the digital production of Icelandic printing. The report relates to an effort to promote Icelandic as official, while the General agreed in spring Congress on 22 measures to promote the language in all areas of society. One of the biggest actions in this program is that of the future of Icelandic in a digital world, and recently a signed contract was signed for the first stage of the project, a contract for the development of verbal structures. A respectable president. The main item of this report is based on the results of a team of work men assigned to develop a digital print re-making programme. Its results can be grouped into five elements: First, the task should be set out to the published books in Icelandic, both original and translation. The number of published books in English between 1850 and 2015 is nearly 90,000. Second, it should be noted that digital reconstitution will be available to read online and that author-relevant publications will be limited to users linked to the material via the Icelandic Internet, i.e. ... havea so-called IP numbers. The substance that has fallen from author rights will be opened to all. Third, the most practical procedure would be to do in six years with three cameras and two processing stations, i.e. of Iceland's National Library ◯ University Library and Amts Library in Akureyri Fourth, a team of workers with appropriate stakeholders is required to recommend the use of author-sized books and should be allowed access to digital recycling. It is suggested that the Norwegian Treaty on digital restructuring of Norwegian literature should be consulted in the work of such a team. Fifth, the cost of the project is estimated, if we set the criteria above, as follows: The cost of the plant is more than 46 million. At a rate, the annual pay rate would be about 85 million. K. and the annual cost of general maintenance, maintenance and management of data would be 8.5 million. K. Each year, there would be a number of authoritarians of 31◯36 million. K. if you consider Norwegian contracts. Thus, a total of over a six - year work period would be 690 million. K. and annual operating costs of 41 million. K. A respectable president. The report I recommend includes analysis at costs and preparation to make all Icelandic books available in digital form so that they can be read through online equipment. The report reviews each component and possible opinions beyond what I have had in my speech. I encourage senators to study its contents carefully. The work is important, and I have a strong desire to follow it through. This project, as well as others associated with Icelandic culture and language, is essential to maintaining and strengthening Icelandic languages. The Icelandic Painting Program is fully funded, and there may be some additive effect as this project needs to be further investigated. In addition, a digital redundant for printed material is useful in promoting official and official policies by the government. So it is urgent that this project be carried out and completely financed, and the next phase will be targeted. A respectable president. I would like to thank the staff for their well-work as well as the personnel of the Ministry involved in this report.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u18	President. Thank you very much. Ministers give the best speech, perhaps especially a good response to the report. I moved the other day, I always say something that I think has happened the other day, but I guess it's going to be a year and a half ago, this well-traveled council-sounding proposal agreed by the Council finally to make this report. Why was I doing that? Yes, because it is extremely important that we keep close in mind the digital printing of Icelandic printing. Already, the National Library is working on some of these matters, the manuscript.is known as a map.is, damaged.is, open - door information.is. However, it has not been a complete thought about getting a complete language into a digital format. I remember a time when I was living in Hafnarfjörður, one of the many places I lived, and went to the library, borrowed books, and later came to give them back the same day because I had finished reading them. Then I couldn't take any more books, since it was only allowed to come once that day. A ridiculous rule, of course, in those years, and I'm not sure it's still a people thing. But here we are going the wrong way, here we are opening our print tank all the way to those connected to the Internet all over the amplitude. It doesn't matter whether they live in Kopavogur or in Kaposker or if they have access to the excellent libraries that can be found in most parts of the country, but not everywhere. It is vital that we respect our printer. I am glad that the work force came to this conclusion, in turn, in effect. V.E.G. Since then, a minister has established the best way of thinking, the matter is being settled. This is not a case that needs to be run into one, two, and three, this is a matter that we slowly make a good decision about. What is the digital recycling of Icelandic printing? I'm not sure that this is necessarily a very good language for everyone, or that everyone understands exactly what this is all about. But most of us, at least many, have gone e.g. (For fully formatted text, see publication) It's really fun, both when we have to look for some information that the senators and I like to do, perhaps we could do more of a search for time back and activate our historical awareness, as well as just for entertainment at magazine.is. Today, we can look for information and information again in that last century. It would really be a magazine. Except for Icelandic books, for the printer. The report reviews what needs to be done. The focus is primarily on books that may have come from public sales. That's where we already hit a definition wall. What does it mean to be out of public sales? Of course, though, those who have written our wonderful books and who still have the penalties are to be paid for that. We have an excellent example of this in Norway, Bokhylla's name of a wonderful phenomenon, and the report shows that there are particularly ways in which authors' contracts are handled, and other things. President. I didn't mean to have this any further in myself. I just once again express my joy in this matter. It was approved here, if I recall correctly, in harmony at the time, and now this good report is arrived, a plan to get it done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u19	Mr. President. I want to begin my case by thanking you for this fine report and thanking the Minister for her historical history and bringing it all into this matter. This report, as reported, is about the digital recycling of Icelandic printing, where Education and Culture Ministers were assigned to appoint a team of workers who produced a digital redundant printing programme that will be available to read online equipment and know the possibility to achieve contracts with the authors for such a digital remake process, as it was put in the setting. The main results and suggestions of the work group are included in all of the following: The need for a digital redesigning of Icelandic printed material to books both originals and translation, written in the library system Against. This fine report explains that the number of recorded publications between 1850 and 22015 is more than 88,000, and based on the estimated total number of pages in this period is over 9.3 million. Organizations and costs are discussed. I believe the money that's supposed to be given is well spent. But I do allow myself to expect that, Mr. President, to the highest. A minister explains in more detail the funding of the project in his final talk here. Mr. President. I agree with a minister when she claims that this project on the digital recycling of the Icelandic printing has helped to match the main goals of the government in culture, especially about improving, as it is called, the availability of cultural resources. If that becomes reality, all the public will be able to read the books on the Internet. This project on the digital recycling of Icelandic printing is also well compatible with government policy to promote Icelandic as official in Iceland, as per a Conventional Directive on the subject adopted on June 7 of the past year. The digital redundancy of Icelandic printing is not limited to increasing public access to Icelandic literature, thus strengthening literature, but to such digital recycling will be used in a grammatical project. This matter requires that, in the least case, the Icelandic language be enhanced. When it comes to these matters, it is not out of the way to refer briefly to the classic writings Sigurður Professor Nordalur, the context of Icelandic literature. It even says, by permission of the president: ▪ The context of Iceland's language and education is no coincidence. For we have not kept it in sleep, and insulation; neither have we been false among the nations; but we have kept watch, and kept watch, and the writers, and the readers, together. Go on says: But the nation's literary heritage is not one of the stings on which they can hope for the past days. We can expect this, that there may be a continuing battle yet ahead. True, we have gone our way out of our own hands. However, the prize of life is never a rest but a chance to continue the defense. Coming up next, Sigurður Nordal gives way to foreign influences, but he further says, with the permission of the president: But the threat cannot be merely from those who want to open our language and grow up on the side of a foreign pair of scales. The other is equally dangerous, to want to make this country a national bog, where no foreign beam of light is shining in. Finally, I want to quote the words of Sigurður Nordalur in this quoted article when he asks: ▪ But why should we keep this context? - The context in English and literature. - Is that anything but ambition? True, it is ambitious. The generations that lost it would be famous for the others, except for the rest of the west. Much of our nationality is emotional. But in addition to ambition, there are reasonable reasons why the Icelanders are better off if they keep the context to the best of their ability, both by knowing their literature and their history from start to end, and by taking into account their inheritance, when they create new works. This fine matter also points to the fact that by the end of the recent century, the modern - day Icelandic literary Society, known as an ancient monasteries, written at the turn of the century, was published. Regarding this book, President Jón Helgason, poet and professor of Copenhagen, said: ▪ The countless flea wells of ice have spoken more clearly than in this old book, and is the inselling writer who has not read it, little better prepared than the priest who still reads the Sermon on the Mount. Finally, Mr. President, I would like to mention that this fine matter also leads to the thought that the need for good training in Icelandic language at all levels. There is no way for a door to close by pointing to the words of Master Þórbergur of his teacher, Dr. Björn Bjarnason of Woodennarfjörður, the great provincial Icelandic language, but Þórbergur, by permission of the President, will be destroyed. But it was Dr. Björn's education, more than anything else, that kept me in school for spring. He taught with interest and love of truth, and all his teaching expressed great clarity in thought, sleepless action, and classical dignity. He did not teach very quickly, for he was rather upset about a speaker, and it was probably in part because most of what he told us in the classes was designed to make me less aggressive. He further says: ▪ doktor Björn described the narrow, blurred perspective of his textbooks and brought back the time with something I had never heard before. I realized in his classes. I was always understanding something that I hadn't understood before, not even thought of before. It was as if the soul's beds spread and were described by each lesson. That was really fun for me. Mr. President. We need to be effective in supporting teachers in Icelandic school, such as all of us who are teaching by hand. I thank you, Mr. President, this fine report on the digital printing of Icelandic printing, and I hope that the plans described in it will produce good results and contribute to the growth of Icelandic language and culture.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u20	A respectable president. That was a good idea for my predecessor in this sermon. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson of Isensius, to quote to the famous writings Sigurður Nordalur on the context in Icelandic literature because this matter is about it precisely. It's about the context in Icelandic literature and how we keep it and how we deliver ancient texts such as the Ho·mi·liʹa book - I admit that I'm accustomed to my writing because I don't meet Jón Helgason's wishes to be at home - or Þórbergur or any of the things we consider to be classic Icelandic literature. There's every reason to thank for this initiative, huh? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér, highest. Minister of Lilja Alfreðsdóttir and authors of the report Rán Tryggvadóttir, Steinunn Sverrisdóttir, Eiríkur Þorláksson, and Marta Guðrún Skúladóttir for his excellent work. This is a very good, careful report that is being handled through the issues of opinion that may be involved and gathered in what needs to be kept in mind when preparing for the future life of Icelandic literature that is about to be discussed. We may think in books, printed books, but the book does not necessarily have a long history of preserving knowledge because it is about preserving knowledge. True, in the United States, we have printed what appears in the 16th century, but until the 20th century, Iceland wrote its own books. In rural areas and bathrooms, they read from books they had written themselves and wrote their great collections of books, where they gathered learning and entertainment together on one book. It has been said that the national disease of the Icelanders is an i.e. literature, and we have reports about people who had remarkable success in writing up all kinds of knowledge and entertainment between those they worked hard in their rural work. In other words, it is not the monologue to think of the printed book as the only place we use to preserve knowledge, but it is now, and I would like to keep it here as a collection of old - time libraries. There's nothing more beautiful and more parlour than a good library that's beautifully and beautifully bound. You know, it's a book that's coming out of your mind. These are closed books that flow from these books that surround those who sit in such a library and that all become much smarter. So I want to emphasize that we will continue to collect old books in our old form, and we will continue to keep them around us as an excellent and important place for the preservation of knowledge. Nevertheless, much of our lives are on screen and in the screen. Making old books available in such an environment also gives them new lives, and it has not only value for us as lovers and lovers of literature and knowledge and pleasures but also has a special value for all those who need to work with texts, scholars who need to be able to look up into texts, and save and make it easier for them to do quite a great job and, most important thing, which is now only killed on this report, is relevant for scientists who study the matter and enable us to guide our case into the new century. We must not forget that books are still markets. Since books are not entirely marketed, it is important that books continue to be enjoyed on the market, new books, they are still markets, and that those who put together books that are both writers and other bookmakers can earn some money from their hard work. That is why the year 2000, which is brought to Norway, is a model in Norway for that year. I don't know what else it could've been for in the 20th century. I myself began writing books in 1987 or 1988, reminded myself, and I still have hope that I will achieve some copies of what may remain of it. Thus, literature is still marketed, not only in the form of the printed book, but in its various endeavors to sell these texts as audio books, as well as in other forms. This should be respected and taken into consideration. For readers, it is important that they have access to books and books and to use books on computer and other screen environments. Right now, I've already had a good time. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé referred to a magazine that many people use every day. I would also like to mention the sources, which are a very useful site for the National Library as scholars, often in traditional Icelandic studies, can use indiscriminately. There is one thing about the use I have but there is a plan to attach it to Icelandic IP numbers, to limit this to the users connected to the subject via the Icelandic internet and to limit this to the Icelandic IP numbers. This may be financial issues, and it may be some of the viewpoints that need attention. But I would like to remind you that Icelandic science is being practiced around the world. There are scholars around the world who have to be able to practice Icelandic science and have to use such documents as sources. In many parts of the world, the ambassadors of Icelandic culture are our translators. It is people who render modern - day Icelandic literature and who have done a great deal of work to increase national and national wealth. We need to keep in mind the needs of the people when we take care of them and the translators need to have access to these literature as easily as are other readers of Icelandic literature. I agree with what is said here on the need to consult written people, i.e. people who for some reason find it difficult to read books and/or read texts and consult with the scientific community. I also agree with the need to agree with it. Some: Good things and every reason to thank this report.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u21	V.E.G. President. This is where we're going to talk to the top of the report. Secretary of Education and Culture on the digital redundancy of Icelandic printing delivered on the basis of a synonym first delivered by Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér, and I know him the best thanks for as well as for the Ministry of Education. In this assembly resolution, a minister was assigned to appoint a group of men who should make a cost-and-time plan for the digital printing remake and the cost of meeting contracts with the authors' union for the use of digital writings. The digital remake of Icelandic printing means that from now on it will be available to read online equipment. In the digital world in which we are moving, it is probably possible to be able to look up all possible and impossible on the Internet and to obtain the information desired in a moment's time. Looking up books, magazines, brochures, or printed page of what kind requires time, patience, and knowledge of where the quest is found, as well as the other spins, or is found in various places today, when the computer and the Internet offer a much more rapid search. Therefore, it is important to engage in this project so that you can access all Icelandic printed languages online. It is also a very important part of protecting and promoting Icelandic language and writing and to preserve the nation's cultural and literary resources, which most of which are found in print. The proposals of the group include until, by permission of the President: ▪ To aim for a digital redesigning program for Icelandic printing, both original and written books should be written in the library. The number of registered publications from 1850 to 2015 is more than 88 thousand, and based on the estimated total number of pages in this period would be over 9.3 million. The project will then appear to be expected to buy three cameras, which would be used at the same time for graphics, in Akureyri and in Reykjavík, and in annual work each year, ten would be used. In addition, there is a charge to be paid, the maintenance of equipment, and the preservation of the data. The costs listed in this report vary according to time processing and the number of processing stations. It is estimated that the lowest cost of processing time, five years and most processing stations or four, would be about 850 million overall. The highest cost of the longest processing period, 18 years, with one processing station, would be less than 1,200 million total. That long period of experience, 18 years, is not in my picture, and it is, of course, a question of what would be out - of - date or could damage the processing process or even delay it. The service team suggests that the project will be accomplished in six years by three developers. The 2013 Icelandic government cultural policy provides an ambitious goal for the nation's cultural makeup in the most digital fields. The report notes that there has already been a considerable technical recovery of digital activity and that such tissues as books.is, magazines, manuscripts.is, damages.is, open - ups.is, and sources become ever more digital in nature. For example, the magazine magazine contains 260,000 issues of newspapers and 70,000 issues of magazines in digital form. On scripts.is access to historical manuscripts is available at the National Library of ▪ University Library, Copenhagen Annual Collection, and the Source of the Year Magnús. It provides access to textbooks and research aids from every university in Iceland. As you can read in this report, collections and other cultural institutions can only provide access to part of the vast collection of services they preserve, whether for loans or for reading rooms, as well as to which a geographic distance from these centres can be an obstacle. They point to the social barrier, which includes some social groups holding back from attending museums and cultural institutions. To them, all other opportunities for education and entertainment and information collections are opened in the digital archives. A digital bioavailability really means a lot of time saved, as I entered the above. How satisfying it is that the minister of educational and cultural matters intends this great project to become reality and to follow the proposal of the staff to have the job done in six years at the three posts in Akureyri and in Reykjavík! I support this ambitious task, which includes making Icelandic books and printed languages available to the public online. As a result, I want to go to a magazine in which Gunnar Stefánsson is an article. This article appears in the magazine I have bought since its first published, about 1980, North East. This is a magazine published in Response Valley. I say this right here and now I think Christmas is here when the North Sea Christmas sheet is in my room. The quote I'm about to enter is from the 1994 Christmas newspaper, which is more than 18 years old, issue. Now I'm here for a magazine.is, and I couldn't really do this unless this magazine has been made, and I can pick it up in a minute. I'd like to finish my speech in a little poem, which is from poet and schoolmate Gunnar Pálsson of Upsum. He was born in 1714. In this article, Gunnar Stefánsson deals with Gunnar Pálsson, taking note of this article, which reads with the permission of a president: Icelandic is one of those things. that everyone learned heels And never will your miserable soul a more beautiful measure. The tongue of the tongue speaks every man, But we have a way of dealing with each other. One to another acts in a practical way which are most convenient. But no one in the world has a nation rejection of his tongue, the handing so slow and good but will be introduced?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u22	A respectable president. Like other councilmen here have spoken, I welcome the report and thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice for her poem, to have moved it here. But, of course, having a boring, technical magazine is a matter of Piratans. But I'm afraid that's what I have to go out in this regard. It's a good report. The purpose is positive and wonderful, but there is a small problem over several things in the implementation of the tools that I would like to discuss. That is especially two or three. It is the so-called IP-blocking that it will only be available on so-called IP numbers, which can be considered to be one of the computers' numbers on the Internet or their social security numbers or anything else, and, on the other hand, what is discussed in the report, to make the content readable only by the screen, i.e. so that it cannot be downloaded or printed. That technology is called DRM in English, abbreviated way, or Digital Rights Management. It is a encryption technique which implies that the material is only useful on such devices that are specifically allowed to decrypt the element. It's, like, a... much Netflix and Spotify used and is relatively common in the distribution and media of entertainment. The problem of this technology, DRM, is that no materials can be downloaded, printed out, or copied, or cut into a database and done on any diagnostic basis, except for those tools that have been specifically designed to handle the exact content. In other words, it will be very expensive to study such subjects because research can only take place on the basis of a special authority to examine it. I believe that I do something against a goal that is also mentioned in the report, i.e. that this should increase research on the contents of these books, which I consider very important and positive goals, as I think most people count in here. But it can't be done in a good way along DRM technology, there's a certain contradiction. Because people have to decide if they only want to read the screen and therefore they can't investigate it or if they want it to be readable in more ways and therefore, in some way computer lock or at least electronically, they could be used for research and for the development of the Icelandic language and all of it. There are two slightly conflicting goals there, i.e. the application of this transcription protection of DRM technology versus the investigation. DRM technology is directly and literally designed to make such management impossible. It is designed to do exactly that, and nothing else in order to protect authors' rights and financial interests, which are not bad goals for themselves, technology works as it works, and it doesn't care if we feel that it is fair or not. The other is about the so-called IP-blockade, and I have to go into it briefly. Computers on the Internet are generally using a so-called IP number. It's a little more complicated than the fact that I have time to explain it in detail here. But in general, you can find out from which country or region someone comes on the Internet by seeing the IP number and whenever a computer connects, you need to send some IP number. Usually it's an IP number published by the Internet company. For example, if I'm with the Símans and I'm on the Internet and I'm on a Web site, the website can see that I'm with the Símans, if I'm online through Simmann. If I'm at the call then I know I'm there, she can find out a lot. It's no problem to get past this if you're least interested in it, e.g. by using the VPN which I use cruelly myself, especially when I'm overseas on a network I don't trust. It's no problem to get past this if you have the will to. Most people don't want to, though, I think. But anyway, this is what it means to be on an Icelandic IP number. It is generally possible to discern at least what country you are from and which service providers you are from. This report suggests that this will be set up so that only requests or visits from Icelandic IPs, see computers located in Iceland, will be allowed to download this information. I have some comments on that. First, I'm the object of understanding why. All this material we are discussing here is Icelandic and Iceland's vast majority. Now I've heard different numbers about how many Icelanders live abroad, but they're hardly more than Islanders who live in Iceland. They're hardly more than a handful of thousands, I suppose, if that. Then we have to think about what kind of cost it could possibly save to limit this to Iceland over its heads. If an Icelander who lives here goes to Denmark and is there to visit and will visit a book online, why is this limited because he is located in Denmark? How is that more damaging than if the Icelander is located in Akureyri or Kopasker or anywhere? I don't know exactly what problem you're trying to solve there. It seems to me that there is some sort of spontaneous reaction that often comes up in authorial matters, that somehow makes sure things are really really closed and difficult to cope with without necessarily realizing what the purpose is and whether this purpose will be achieved with the proposed technical solution. It's my suspicion. I can't say because I don't quite understand why it's suggested to go this way. I realize that Norway went this way, and Norway also uses DRM technology, but I think that there's only trouble, saves no money and protects no income, and makes no profit, though with them a warning about DRM technology that because it prevents people from limping down the material and spreading it, elsewhere there's no overpowerably convincing evidence in my mind, it's likely to slow down authors. Suppose, though, that our ability to study and especially for modern - day analysis or for some sort of thing remains to be limited. Every time you use the material any other way than to read it off a screen, it'll be a problem with the DRM technology. I must mention that on page 18. 14 You can only discuss various ways in which to pay authors for the use of books. That's what it's all about. That's where the idea of blocking IP numbers and using DRM technology comes from. As Piratar and I have often pointed out, authors' unions, such traditional adherences, and attempts to keep it in traditional extensions, tend to cause side effects that can become greater than the problem that is being attempted to solve. I think that's the case. Nevertheless, it is on page 19. 14 A brief discussion of what is called the German route. Then the authors get an initial payment like this - I don't see it in the text at the moment how it's said, the initial subsidies, and then for the use of the material. That's where I want to make people think only about what they're saying. There's something that may seem innocent at first and is probably all right when it comes to these literature, I think, but it includes keeping track of what people read. In the past, much less hostile governments were in Germany and the Soviet Union and elsewhere, and people might just want to read what they were reading. No doubt there are books that have all kinds of reckless theories and every sort of dangerous ideas about how the world could be completely different if the whole system was different, if governments weren't what they are, etc. I'm sure it's all right with this particular government right now, I don't doubt it. But they can become bad. They can decide to observe what people read and to draw conclusions about what they want and what they read. As I say, I'm not worried that this will happen in the near future, but we also see the trend in the world, and sometimes we're amazed at what people can accept in the so - called Western world when it comes to going to civil rights in order to keep foreigners out or protect the alleged national security difference or anything. It's not too far to go. There is not much to change for such ideas to be taken for granted, seeing what people read to identify them politically so that they may have political consequences. That, a respectable president, can't happen. There's a problem with using at least the DRM technology to babysit who's reading what's on the Internet. This may not be a problem limited to this specific proposal. It's just something that's worth thinking about because there are times when I feel that I'm jumping asleep when it comes to watching what we're doing online. Most people should feel enough already and do not need to consult the Icelandic government or the Soviet Union to find terrible examples. There are such examples in liberal democracies today, and I'm not going to name any names, but the first letter is America, and more can be drawn. When we are trying to create a business model suitable for authors, we must also keep these things in mind. None of the things I've said here are in any way thinking about cutting down the right authors to get paid for their work. It's very important and it's, by the way, the first sentence of Pirata's policy on writers' course, i.e. that writers have the right to get paid for their work. But it does matter how it is implemented, and it is important that we guard against some side effect of the decisions we make in an effort to carry out that right. Finally, in an effort to keep this on positive terms too, this is a very good report. To say, away from these things, it is a very important project here suggested to be done, not just for recreation, but especially for research, and especially to maintain the Icelandic language that I believe is one of the more important things we can do with suggestions like these.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u23	A respectable president. Thank you for this discussion we have on the top report. Director of Education and Culture on the digital redundancy of Icelandic printing due to Parliamentary Rearing No. 20/148. Here we have a report that clearly marks the subject and analyzes the cost of digital recycling in the Icelandic language. It is good to respond quickly to the work being done by the Parliament, as it is done here, and we have an overview of the project. But it also points out more work to do. I think it is important to ensure that at the beginning of the project, digital recycling will be available from the beginning to print - type people. There's work to find out how it's best done, and it seems to me that it might be a good idea to work if I look more closely at a number of technical applications, which I'm not going to do as accurately as the senator who spoke before me. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. But I think it's very important to take a good look at technology before it begins with just a few points from which he pointed out, his research interest, and his link to grammatical technology. The report also points out that it is important to appoint another group of work to discuss the authorial and agreements with the courts, the group that could provide detailed suggestions on the use that would be granted by works still in the author's rights and how a reward would be paid for them. Digital recovery, as suggested here, would be good if governments were to improve their cultural resources and promote the English language. It has to do with the work programme for Icelandic and all the work done and completely matches the concept of promoting Icelandic and official languages in Iceland as approved at the last council, which will be used in all areas of society, that Icelandic education and the development of teachers will be promoted at all levels of education and that the future of Icelandic language in a digital world will be guaranteed. This reinvestment will fall towards these targets and directly relate to certain measures in this schedule. As noted in the report, digital improvements in the public bioavailability will be greatly improved and, as some have attributed, have, of course, been developed into digital tissues, such as magazines.is, books, and sources. Clearly, they, especially magazines, have already become a revolution in research procedures and educational work with much more text searching, along with what the common people have access to material that could previously be accessed only in reading rooms. So it is very important for this work - this time research may move from museums and libraries to the site - not to be forgotten. This is one of the things which I think I have to think very carefully, that there shall be no matter what shall be left over. I just want to come on to where the job is going to be. It is suggested that it be conducted in three places, with the issue that the work needs to be carried out where the printed material is available in libraries that accept duty. But I would like to point out the possibility that work can start in Akureyri even if it needs to be held in these three libraries mentioned in the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u24	Mr. President. In our restoration, we are concerned about the use of the Icelandic language and the use of it in a digital environment. We support goals in this regard. Can be a compliment to the highest degree. Minister for quickly responding to the will of the council, who agreed in the spring of 2018 to hide the highest order. Ministers to appoint this task force to set up a cost-and-time plan for the digital printing system and it will be made available to read online devices as well as that surveys would be the potential to achieve agreements with the author-sponsored authors on such uses of digital writings. V.E.G. The minister appointed the service group in September 2018, and he was assigned to make recommendations and a report that we will discuss here. This report is good. It explains how we can do Icelandic works in the last 170 years available digitally and electronically and at the same time accessible to future generations and how we can prevent the loss of writing works, especially old books that alone have few copies, and these do not require much effort to eliminate them permanently. As the report shows, there is a large task and many features. I trust that a minister will assess the cutback of the publication period of the material required to perpetuate with the national interests of the nation, as well as with regard to the practical requirements. This is simply often the way for a project to be completed, to be kept in mind from the beginning. Based on the published material from 1850 until the turn of the century, it is possible to complete the letters within six years with two machines, but not with three, thus saving one third of the stock costs and pay expenses, as well as a portion of the author's payment, save to the next stage of the project that can be planned in the near future. This would also make it possible to ensure that most of the oldest works can be lost in the near future and that most copies are available in general. Of course, it is the Minister's opinion of the priorities of interest and funding, but we agree that the project is ambitious and important, both to us and to future generations. The report notes that the work group did not appoint representatives of stakeholders, such as courts and investigators. Also, it may have been the most widely needed representatives of the people with the printed page, including the same text. Blindness and visual acuity. In my opinion it is not proper that this project be continued without the presence of representatives of these groups. The report suggests that analysis of costs to ensure bioavailability of printed materials and the interests of investigators and the court may increase the estimate of total costs for the implementation of the project. I think there's probably a mild word to say, probably inevitable, that analysis at that cost would result in an increase in total cost. We do not now know how much, nor do we know how much money will be given in the government budget if the budget is to be established. Then we know that authors will get their things in harmony with the laws and agreements that hopefully will be reached in connection with this project. However, the bioavailability must also be put first. The General has already agreed to a synopsis that the U.S. United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People and that its legalisation will be completed this year, and under this contract, information and cultural information will be offered in an accessible and useful form. If capital priorities are needed, we trust that they will be the highest priority. When it comes to this access, a minister of education and culture will make no compromises, even if it means making books in the last 10, 15 or 20 years, waiting for the next phase. Maybe in the end, about the base. The results of the work group show that the greatest practicality at work is achieved by buying three cameras for making books and that the project will be carried out at three posts simultaneously, i.e. At the National Library of Iceland, a University Library, two workshops, and then the Amts Library in Akureyri, one work station. In this context, recall that when magazines have been mentioned here more than once in the discussion were set up at a time when all magazines and magazines were placed in an electronic format, the Amts Library in Akureyri was assigned that assignment. This project we are here dealing with is clearly one of the tasks that are simple to plan with a geographic basis in mind. It would be a pleasure to see such emphasis in a final version or construction. I'm not going to keep this any further, Mr. President, but I thank you for the discussion and a pleasure to participate in it. This is certainly good, and it needs work that we have on our hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u25	A respectable president. We'll discuss the education and cultural secretary's report on the digital redundancy of Icelandic printing due to Congress resolution No. 20/148. I shall quite admit that I was a bit of a question mark when I saw this report but was so delighted to study it because in the report I had missed some things that I had missed. That's why I put questions on what has been done, but they list such articles as books, magazines, manuscripts.is, Iceland cards.is, damaged.is, open - door information. What's going on with a public presentation? How has it been done? I don't know. I haven't noticed her, so I've asked myself if they've forgotten to make sure all the public knows that this is available. Then I'd like to agree with Hanna Katrín Friðriksson's words earlier, that's one thing we must never forget, and that's the access of the disabled. We know that the bioavailability of the disabled to public agencies, such as the U.S.A. Only libraries, things aren't perfect, but digital books and online material are much more accessible to them. But then there is also the question that has been raised here, that is the bioavailability of those who are blind. It needs to be talkative, so you can listen. We are under obligation to make sure that it is done. I believe it will be. Then there was another question, and in many ways I agree, and in connection with the IP, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson pointed out that she had to be Icelandic. It can't work because I think there are close to 50,000 Icelanders living abroad, last time I knew. It is not all right for them to have access to this, especially if we look at the evidence that foreigners do not get into it. I'd just say thank you for any foreigner who would go in there and try to read or listen to Icelandic. Instead of worrying about it, we should encourage them. That would be very important. I see that this is a very important project and in many ways very good. I also went through the cost of this project. I was surprised when you see the annual work you're going to do and how they're gonna do it, when you see a certain amount of pay, who has better salary than others in this type of process. The second, of course, was also striking, but the five - year strategy and the six - year - old are very similar at costs, but the most expensive one was nearly 100% more expensive. I say for my part: I really hope that if you take the five or six-year plan, one would be silly, the other is so much more expensive that it doesn't really make sense to pay twice as much for the exact same job. I think it's the best thing to do, and I really hope it's going to work out. What surprised me, too, was how much has been transferred to digital form. It's 1850 books, that's 70% inside. It's great, and the best of it, so it's just gonna be over. And as I tell you, I hope this is how everyone knows about this and that everyone can take advantage of it, and then it doesn't matter where the person in the world is, whether he is an Icelander or a foreigner. If a foreigner wants to know this, he has the right to study it. Well, hopefully the author will get his commission, as if for other ideas, songs and lyrics and things, but that's as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u26	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Otttar's son Proppér, for bringing forward the matter of Congress, which led to the highest level of this report. Minister here recommends for today, and I thank her for her input, too. Many have talked about the importance of using Icelandic language in the digital world, such as other languages. Indeed, digital printing is part of it and would support the aim of furthering Icelandic in the digital world. Is this in harmony with Icelandic government cultural policies and would contribute to the preservation of culture? At the same time, I believe that increasing access to the national culture can result in considerable growth and innovation in fields such as art, culture, and technology, and such activities are rarely produced in voids. However, I would like to emphasize the use of the English language in the digital world. Today, in many parts of the world, where the self - righteous thing to talk to is, from the ability to turn on or off the coffee industry in the morning, to ask for instructions on how to travel in foreign lands and even shop online. Such progress is exciting and leads to a number of life - relief opportunities, and I feel that such technology will only in the years that we are living in. On the contrary, I think it will become more pronounced and more useful in our everyday life as technology becomes more developed and varied. In my opinion, this development underscores the importance of making the Icelandic language possible in the digital world, that we can talk to devices in our mother tongue, and they understand us. You see, I'm pretty afraid that if we can't use Icelandic in our everyday lives in our relationships with our tools, we're limiting the use of Icelandic to the point that it could have a huge impact on her future. To me, it would be almost as limited as not being able to write to Icelandic in our computers or perform a simple search on the Internet. While we consider our language to be remarkable, in the large world, there is an Icelandic arrow and the utmost need for us to care for our language in all areas. In view of this, how glad we are that this report has come to an end that is an important part of our journey! But I would also like to welcome such projects as Shammur, which is designed to strengthen Icelandic status in the digital world by recording and collecting audio recordings in Icelandic. Also, there are initiatives, such as Digital Iceland, which is also the case. aimed at building and strengthening digital infrastructure in public services. These projects as well as the report we are discussing here today are all important in our major project to maintain Icelandic in the world of exciting and rapid social and technological changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u27	Mr. President. We'll discuss a report with you at the highest level. The Minister of Education and Culture, which presents a cost-and-time schedule for the digital printing of Icelandic printing so that all printed Icelandic languages will be available for reading online equipment. This report is based on a resolution adopted here at council 6 June 2018. I want to thank you very much. Minister for her history earlier and for her own report. As the report shows, this is a vast task, with all Icelandic literature. This, as indicated in the report, accounts for more than 88,000 publications from 1850±2015 or during the 165 years, and the total number of pages is estimated to be 9.3 million. To put the scope in a understandable context, Mr. President, it is considered to me that it was written and published almost one and a half publications each day over the entire 165 years, one and a half publications a day. If I continue to put this into context, these 154 pages are published every day over this same period of 154 pages. That the nation, Mr. President, is taught literature is in the light of all this absurdity. Before we go any further, I want to express my joy in this whole project and to hope that it will have a rapid beginning. The task is important in our efforts to protect the English language, as well as to protect our culture as a nation. More and more important, as international influence grows in the community, it can be said that, in fact, the world around us and our national characteristics are being affected by a variety of influences beyond our ability to predict what will happen or what will happen in the long run. These are matters that concern us as a nation who is eager to preserve the grand cultural heritage our forefathers have left behind and that are especially found in poetry, poetry, and all kinds of written works. The report expects three cameras to be used in two different posts in Reykjavík and Akureyri, on the other hand. In this regard, Mr. President, I would like to point out that this is an assignment that might be suitable for furthering jobs in the country, and I cannot hide that I would have wanted to see that more of this project would be shared abroad than expected in a general report. Minister. The report reports that the project is estimated to take six years, with the precept that contracts deal with authors. If this is to take six years, we need to develop and scan 40 writings every day during the six years, so this is an enormous project, Mr. President. The cost is estimated to be 687 million. In this regard, it is interesting to learn how much of these publications, 88,000 publications, depend on the rights of authors. [[The president calls.]] I see that in Norway it is assumed that there are 70%, but it would be interesting to know if this has been studied here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u28	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by thanking the highest. Ministers for this report and its winners. Here's a good and thorough report. I'm going to thank you too. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Otttar's son Proppér, for the Congress resolution he made, and I was actually a member of the teleportant. I'll admit it already. A senator approached me to request transport then, but I did not know exactly which leg I was going to step up, but I decided to make it interesting to get this report and this analysis. But I think I probably also mentioned that I wasn't saying yes to more government spending in any way. To say, it is quite clear that there are opportunities to get our important literature missing into digital form. It is not only to increase public access to this important Icelandic literature and strengthen literature but it may also include this particular opportunity for innovation, and that may be what I find particularly interesting. In fact, I have to admit that I'm a little disappointed that bookmakers have not, in my opinion, developed at full speed in publishing electrical books. I would have liked to see them develop more and faster. I take as an example the music that a decade ago took a complete U-turn into a digital form. But I'm going to commend the bookmakers, especially those who have gone into audio books, so I'm celebrating the very expansive mother of teenage boys whom I find hard to get to read, as important as it is, but they are very diligent at listening, and at least there's something. I must also admit that I was surprised to find in the report that 70% of the books released were digitally distributed. I went in on books for the first time, and I agree with what. A senator who came in earlier could give us more information. It's really interesting. Magazine. I think everyone knows the word today, and you can see on that website how important it is, and a lot of people can take advantage of it. Then I again remind you that data can be a set amount of money and encourage innovation. How happy I will be to find my favorite author, the former highest! President of the Parliament, Guðrún Helgadóttir, and her books online. There are books that are often difficult to pick up in bookstores, and Kolaport comes, for example. It's a big one when you want to get some nice, easy stuff from there. That's what I'm saying. That's a lot of opportunity for me to do this. But, as more members of the council have mentioned, I'm going to think about it with the IP numbers, perhaps primarily, would like to refer to a number of Icelanders abroad and to a number of children growing up abroad who may have reduced access to Icelandic and Icelandic cultures, both books and others. I've been talking to the highest. Minister to the good materials, e.g. VOLAND produces for children, the importance of opening it up so that the population of Iceland can eat it and, of course, all here, whether it is children or adults. I also found it interesting that this was the case. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson earlier on books and that they were also market products. I think it's very important not to forget. I know it's in the paper with the synonym that we're wondering about books that are no longer products, I think it's the word that's used, and it's a matter of the definition, that they've reached the age of not being commercial at the market. I wondered, though, that once books have become digital, they are still not markets. I think it's important not to forget that even though we're here talking about culture, the creative and industrial sectors are also short. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, also a writer, came in. This is also the production of recreation for the common people, and I think it is important that it is not forgotten. So I'd also like to wonder if it's the only way or the most reasonable way, we'd like to go on this project that seems to agree that it's important, that the state has to invest in until the equipment and tools, cameras, some of which are listed in the report, and public agencies take on the job. Now, who doesn't know, does anyone like this have tools and tools on the market? Could it be that some people in the market are willing to take this assignment? I would like to encourage a review. I'm also going to reiterate what some have come on and talk about the penalties. I think it really matters a lot, and I need to make sure that the authors of these pieces get their share. This is not only the thought of a civilization that it is, but that it may in some way still be market. I don't know about DRM technology at any point. paritaprevir Hrafn Gunnarsson's shrine came in a little bit, I admit my ignorance there, but he managed to scare me a little bit when you think about personal protection and other things. I wish that people will be examined specifically that they cannot be attributed to what people are reading on such a site. I don't think I have it any further. Thank you for your report. I can agree with the importance of this project being carried out, but I would also like to examine more ways to achieve the objectives set out here, i.e. To look at people who are out on the market and see if they can do any of these things with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u29	Mr. President. This intriguing and detailed report, as we have seen, provides a wide range of insight into this detailed and necessary task to establish a large print language in a digital format. Like many others, I want to take this opportunity and thank you for the work and other things that are about to turn around. It's about millions of pages. There are several different ways of reaching this level of costs and duration. I'm not going to take a stand on the most suitable route, but I'd like to see that they will be made as soon as possible, and the project defined and started, as spoken by the highest order. Minister. I am quite aware that this will take some time, which may not be of any importance, but, while, trying to make the knots so that it will be as fast as possible because I expect a considerable demand for printed language to be followed accurately in this form. All writers, including me, must be glad that the movement has developed, and the evidence points to that fact. I'm naturally saying that society profits from this any way you see it. It is an investment in culture that is of utmost importance to us. It is obvious, of course, that this will increase the distribution of literature. Then I'd like to stress that literature is not only fine literature but also literature in general, as we would like to call it, all kinds of information, literature, and everything, and really, the version is larger to title than the fine literature. It is obvious that this is the case with Iceland, as well as what one has mentioned here that writers get their own money, which may not be the main focus, but the design itself. I've been thinking about it with market responses. I have dozens of published books as a writer, so I can imagine when a book will stop being markets. Therefore, in the year 2000, I give a question mark whether we were not allowed to move it closer in time, simply because five, 10, 15, and even 20 years old books are sold in very small amounts, and the presence of that book in digital form will probably not affect them because it is extremely reluctant. I honestly suggest that we look closer than we did until 2000. It is always a question of how to define markets and whether 30 - year - old books or 15 - year - old books really are. I'm going to commend you. paritaprevir Sir Óttarsson Kolbeinn Proppér for his initiative to have rode on the ground with all of this and have high hopes for the report, and especially for the highest interest. The Minister of Education should lead this case to its conclusion, so many of us here can look forward to having access to countless books that are difficult to obtain or impossible even, and that we see better times. Once again, I thank you for the initiative.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u30	President. It's been such a positive discussion that I now wonder if there's anything wrong here, whether I've made a mistake by reaching that positiveness and harmony into this hall with the requested request. But I don't think so. I think it's really nice that we can get together on such issues, and, actually, there's a lot more than we often think and want to be, especially if we look into the core of things, but not necessarily how we think we're coming out in discussions. Thanks again to the highest. for the work being done here on this fine report and, of course, reporting authors. It will be very interesting to observe the developments. Here's what we got. Councilmen bring many excellent concerns. I myself will late pretend to be technical, let alone so that I can tell how best to do. But I still wondered about the IP numbers and other questions. We may keep in mind that there are about 300,000 Western Icelanders who could still speak in Icelandic, which would certainly have enjoyed windows in Icelandic books, but I trust only the people who write this report and who will be expected to be in the remaining group of work which is being proclaimed here. Finally, I especially want to thank my ego. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice for referring to the North and reading of that fine magazine. That is my heart, for my late husband, Óttarr Proppé, is one of the three founders of that magazine, along with Jóhann Antonsson and Hjörtur Eldjárnur's Þórarinsson. But it is good that we can discuss what we agree on. Many good things have been said about Icelandic books, since books are generally the beginning and end of everything.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u31	A respectable president. First, I'd like to quote from Þórbergur Þórðarson and an unforgettable paragraph in a letter to Laura by permission of presidents: ▪ I am the soul's reclusive wealth. The day of the earth, the sound of the winds, the roaring of the evening sun, the stars of the night sky, the moon of soft smiles, the calm waters, ancient houses, old dumps of garbage, the blueness of distant mountains, the shadows of dark valleys, the flashes of light in striped glass, the silence of my heart - in this I find the healing of eternal life. In fact, the same author also said: ▪ Birds are innocent things, but writers are terrible creatures. Why am I witnessing only to Þórbergur Þórðarson? Yes, it is because we are receiving amazing strength from our literary heritage. I believe by means of the technological revolution, the communication revolution, and everything we're going through, the key is to get our literary missing into digital form, to live in the digital world. What an amazing opportunity it is because our children want to know everything about Icelandic and Icelandic! But I want to, because I see the time ticking here, saying that number one is that we need to secure funding for the project. We need to consider this with the IP numbers and I agree that there is a very large group of Western Icelanders and Icelanders who live abroad who are interested in our subject. And then I have to say, too, that a public presentation, as shown here in the case of many senators, is important because we have put a great deal of ambition in putting our language on digital form. But people need to know about it too. Finally, I'd like to thank all members of the council who have spoken here and particularly why. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Proppér Prope for taking the initiative to request this report.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u32	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the Committee of General and Education Committee on bill to legalize the law of Icelandic citizen's rights. The case has received a series of coverages at the Committee and has brought various visitors to it and received comments as outlined in the Committee. As the text of this committee opinion suggests, the bill suggests changes in legal requirements for Icelandic civil rights that have to be required for citizens' rights. For the sake of penalties, the law's terms for waiting time are primarily proposed. The objective of the bill is to increase the efficiency, transparency and clarity of the law. The commission further stated that the bill suggests that it will be canceled for the granting of citizens' rights not to be repeated and that the level of fines are raised in line with the development of prices. The committee believes, as this puts it, that there is an extremely important change in the subject that is fair to candidates for citizenship. A review suggests that the level of fines have gone up considerably since the law was given so that there has been an increase in the number of applicants for the citizen's rights. The committee's opinion says: The Committee established a view that it would be desirable for a Icelandic citizenship law to be added to replace the rights to prove that a foreign proof of good conduct would be proved by the applicant at a specific time. The committee believes that it is reasonable to make such an exception in isolated cases where the situation is unusual. The release was then intended for candidates whose situation was impossible because they could provide sufficient evidence of identity or proof of criminality while meeting other laws for citizens' rights granting them citizens' rights. For example, refugees who have received international protection from persecution by local governments or refugees from war - torn areas where wood is scarce. The committee suggests that it is permitted to deviate from the above conditions when rich fair conditions recommend it to be added to the bill. Finally, in the Commission's opinion, the bill suggests that a reimbursement is required for those who have lost their Icelandic citizenship according to Article 7. track No. 100/1952 but would have kept it out of order at the time they lost their citizenship. The committee discussed the law and believes that there is a positive change, especially that the law is intended to be untimely. Finally, a global and educational committee suggests a number of changes that can be considered technical. It was a good thing for me to take care of the situation. The General and Education Committee and all committees are listed. In addition to this, it is Páll Magnússon, chairman of the Committee, Árnadóttir Kolbrönnadótttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Halla Gunnarsdóttir, Mólda Hjörn Helgi Gunnarsson, and Turnar Ingi Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u33	A respectable president. I recommend here to the Committee's list of changes in bill proposals to legalize the law, recognition of professional education and proper work here on land. This bill introduces the 2013 European Parliament's Directive and the 2013 Council/55/EU on the variation to the Directive 2005/36/EC of the recognition of professional education. The directive's substance in terms of recognition of education for law-skilled jobs and the acquiring of professional education and fitting before it is permitted to start work in the relevant area. By means of the bill, governments will be authorized to give limited recognition to work. The review of a course of physical therapy points out that in the case of physical therapy, this seems impossible to carry out. Those professions with such limited recognition would have to be set aside. A similar comment on the industrial industry was made that it was difficult to see in the cases where this might apply, and that it was unclear in what cases it would be possible to separate the work from another activity that fell under the legally protected industry and then who had the surveillance of the individual's activities and whether they were involved in non-employed tasks. The committee points out that each case should be considered separately. This is especially true in terms of work that is similar or comparable to the requirements for knowledge and ability in the area where a room-to-house job is involved and there is more work to be done than in your home country. In this regard, the Committee points out to the institutions that cover and provide applications for European professional cards as well as to make decisions about which form of limited recognition is appropriate, but this does not happen automatically. The Commission takes into account the importance of more details in the Regulation on the specific procedure for certain professions. The Commission also aims at what department of the Management Board to consider how to monitor the work programme in these areas and whether it is sufficiently efficient and beneficial. A review of industrialized societies noted that Iceland's speciality regarding population levels would be taken into account. Thus, there would be a specialization that could not be found abroad on a single scale. In most cases, a poor person made it a highly protected industry. Then, circumstances in this country would not be comparable to those in which we compare ourselves. The Commission reports that common standards of education are not expected to replace members of the Member States unless this is determined within their own countries. It is concluded by the Committee that the bill does not compromise educational and professional experience requirements, and each case should be considered specifically as to the above. Then the Commission aims to see if it is possible to specify the professions that have common qualifications for education in Iceland. At that time, the speakers were positive that individuals who are recognized for professional education and who are qualified have the needed language skills to pursue the work in Iceland. In the treatment of the case, it was found that it was not clear what this language should be, but there was also a view to the need to set minimal requirements for these materials and to ensure harmony, e.g. the same would be required for nurses and doctors to speak to them. The Commission points out that language skills are not conditional but are expected to be checked after recognition is provided as detailed in the regulations established by the law. It is then expected that the employer's resources, when assessing the required language skills, will be used to perform the job on the job. However, the separation should be legitimate and necessary because of the relevant activities involved. However, it is permitted to require the applicant declaration of essential Icelandic expertise in the case of a patient's safety and teaching in play, elementary and higher schools, such as the c-join 5. The bill. The committee agrees with the opinion that there will be a consistent language level within the class, such as the health profession. In this context, the Committee shows the importance of ensuring access to Icelandic education, especially when it is required for necessary specificity. In the bill, it is recently stated that students of the study have the opportunity to obtain accepted workplace schooling within a valid profession that is carried out elsewhere than in their country of origin. The Commission noted that the requirements for recognition of work ethic training apply only to students who are to be trained in another EEA country approved by them. Industrial law allows students to operate in a legitimate trade while they are studying. However, the Commission is allowed to establish rules about the maximum length of work ethic training and does not replace tests that governments require to be performed within certain articles. Then it is permitted to demand that the applicant be subjected to supplementary measures, aptitude tests or adjustment if his/her education or experience is substantially different from what is required in this country. In view of the above, it is the Commission's opinion that the bill does not compromise the requirements for professional experience in the home state. A few comments were called upon to agree with the particular castes, where regulations must be submitted on the basis of the law. The Commission considers the importance of consultation with stakeholders in these areas and gives consideration to the viewpoints of suitable and educational conditions as reflected in the management reviews of the case for the profession. The committee then suggests a slight change in wording for correction and correction. The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson was away at the hearing, but he signed in advance on 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. According to this, the Committee suggests that the bill will be adopted with the changes made in the opinion. Under references, Helgi Hrafn, president of the United States, Steindór Kolbrönnadóttir, Bjarkey Þórarinn Gunnarsdóttir, Ingi Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir Gunnarsson of Aarnar, and Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u34	Mr. President. I recommend here for the Committee on Economic and Business Commission's Committee on Elements to legalize the information of stocks offered on a general outing or taken to business on a planned market. The bill is suggested to implement the Icelandic rights of the Council and the Council of 2017/129 of June 14, 2017, on a description to be published when the stock market is oered or taken for business at an orderly market and for the deletion of Directive 2003/71/EC. So the bill suggests that new overall laws on the descriptions of stocks offered in general or taken into business on the market and that, at the same time, certain laws of stock exchange, no. 108/2007. Other aspects of the bill's content and objective are referred to an article that accompanied the bill. However, it should be noted that in 4 mg. Section 3. The bill is suggested to calculate the amount of money in the law based on the official purchase of euro. Commenting on this, the Federal Bank notes that since April 1 it is the right to do away with the buying gang, it is appropriate to cancel. Displays only the World Bank's official currencies ticket and the publication of currency and trade rates. The committee agrees with these views and suggests changes in accordance with them. The review of the Federal Bank calls attention to the provision of temporary separation of regulations to confirm the collapse of stocks after July 21, 2020. Better consideration should be given to legal matters and to clarify how to determine whether the descriptions confirmed on the basis of the terms of stock exchange meet the requirements for the laws that apply to them after July 21, 2020. The committee agrees with that viewpoint and suggests a change in the arrangement, in agreement with the Ministry. Other technical and adaptable forms that follow on the committee document are not intended to have material influence. Hv. The members of Þorsteinn Synod Víglundsson Gerundsson and Brynís Haraldsdóttir were absent from the hearing, but under the opinion of the committee this is the writer, Óli Kárason Kálálsson, Bribbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Álefi the Ásgerður of K. Sigurðsson, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u35	Mr. President. I recommend a greater part of the employment network on bill to legalize the license of registered vehicles. The chairman of the case is not involved, so as director, I'm taking the liberty of measuring for the commission. The committee arranged for a number of visitors to discuss this subject. The bill suggests that there will be a protocol permit to place government fines on a permit holder who has been advised to change the travel status of a vehicle registered in a U.S. Amateur's DMV clinic. As further as the bill shows, a change in the mileage of a driver's drive involves misleading business practices and gives the wrong look of a vehicle and a licenser's management for financial gain. Usually, the vehicle's position is moved down to the wrong impression on the use of a car. Thus, the ability of the owner or driver of a vehicle to carry out a routine of security and needed repairs in time can be prevented. Thus, in the case of a vehicle owned by a rental car, the tenant receives false information about the situation and the events of the safety of a car. Thus, the ability to block traffic security has been seen, but it can also cause damage to those who buy a car. The committee discussed that moving down a vehicle's mileage was not restricted to traffic rent. Pens that were directed solely to car rents solved only part of the problem. In this regard it was held that the construction of a vehicle's landing should generally lead to an increase in the value of automobiles at the expense of the person who buys or rents it. The majority of them agree with these views and consider it important to make a direct reference to driving vehicles in general. In order to suggest that, according to the European Parliament's Directive on the regular testing of motor vehicles and their vehicle vehicles and downturn of the EU Directive, Member States should ensure that, as for the monitoring of a mileometer, where a semimeter is normally installed, the information from previous driving performance tests should be performed when available in an electronic format. The Commission reviewed the perspective that the criteria that should be based on the decision made on the conduct of administrative fines and the breakdown of the application procedure should be made clear. The majority of the measures taken need to be considered in terms of all cases by administrative law. The majority do not consider it a reason to set up a specific standard for the decision of administrative guilty or deletion of an application in such cases as this, in addition to the conduct of administrative legislation. The majority also feel that it is appropriate to state that a driver's license to fine a car's licenses for the change in driving vehicles is in addition to the general legal handling of the Transport Lab. This remains to be true of the law's legislation on the warrants of a U.S. O.A. Administration to a driver's license, if the permit of the permit or if an officer is to be advised of any other violation of the law's law. It can also be assumed that such cases may be of concern to the general law of penalties. The majority of them encourage the Ministry of Employment and Development to monitor the effects of planned changes, including Based on the proposed protective effects. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the matter will be agreed as it should. That's why she's signed, case number one, case number three, and the Lilja of the Njáll of Friðbertsson Frimney Magnúsdóttir, the late-year-old, the Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Ásmundur, the Friðriksson of Fridæk, and the son of Kolbei Ottar, the Óttarsson of Proppér.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u36	Mr. President. I hereby recommend my opinion of part of the past. Promissary committee with a check-out proposal for a change in the law on the renting of registered vehicles. The bill suggests that driving rents are forbidden to alter the driver's position of the driver's license, and that a law enforcement agency will be allowed to fine the car's rent due to such violations. Mr. President. The smaller section underlined the fact that the deportation of a mileage was not restricted to vehicles owned by vehicles. Commenting on the Association of Travellers, it is noted that laws directed solely indicate that only a small portion of the problem should be solved by motorized vehicles and that there will be clear repairs in general. The smaller portion feels that the matter needs to be examined in a much larger context, with regard to financial interests and traffic security, whether it is a car's car or other business. This reminds us that the bill is merely assumed that a fine can be studied up to 2 billion. K. For each Actual Decision, but it is not clear from the bill whether a specific decision will be made on an individual vehicle or if a decision may be made on the basis of more vehicles. However, in a memo sent by the Ministry of prosecuting and innovation, it shows that the maximum is not at every offense, but by each decision, the guilt is, in no case, higher than 2 billion. K. The Commission reviewed that the procedure to modify the vehicle driver's license was rather simple. So, in a relatively short time, it might be that motor vehicles will change the number of vehicles in a relatively small amount of time. Thus, the lower part is considered to be the maximum rate of fines offered in the bill for a dose that is sufficient, as the benefits of such violations may be considerably higher. According to a bill report, because written warning and postponing are essential preconceived but can quickly be applied to fines. It is also attributed to a decline in the loss of employment rights and the ownership rights of the operator. However, the minority points out, as the experience shows, that it may be a major offense in which a number of vehicles have been taken down and sold to unscrupulous buyers. In terms of the memory of the part, the loss of the work permit is more targeted and not exceeding what can be considered normal when the fracture is large. In this regard, the memory of the item points out that the intention to profit financially at the expense of commercial interests and the safety of consumers is infringement. The Committee also pointed out that it would be reasonable to be informed about the criminal cause of such wrongdoing by the trade interests of used cars so that they can make informed decisions as to whether they are involved in such renting. The lesser part takes to some extent the efforts shown on the bill, but in view of the above, go too far in view of the seriousness of behavior. Therefore, the lesser part suggests that the case will be referred back to the government, where it will be worked in more extensive consultations. In one word, Mr. President, you're on better terms. Under this opinion, the writer of this magazine, Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzoff, and the swift. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u37	A respectable president. I recommend here for the bill we're moving to the Economic and Business Committee on Change of consumer loans Act and the Code on Operation of Money and Terrorism Funds, No. 163/2019. It's a law that passed through the council just before Christmas. We're gonna make it down to level one. The bill that, instead of the words, is an electronicized signature to the final language of Article 3. The law comes: an electronic signature or approved by a consumer that has been identified electronically to the lender's business system. In addition, we suggest a change in the recording process so that the law will gain value on June 1, 2020, instead of March 1, just as it was in the bill we gave up. As I said then, we agreed on the bill in December, on December 17, with some changes made to a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee. One of these changes yielded the demand that consumer loans be written and signed by a consumer with a valid electronic signature in cases where the loan agreement was made in telecommunications. The majority of the committee's members explained this change in proposal: It has been suggested that small loan companies do little or no identification requirements when applying for small loans on the company's websites. Thus, borrowing is only in the name of a real loan, and such experiences are known to be true. In order to improve this, the majority of the item contributes to the terms of the identity of the loan agreement to be considered committed, either by autograph or by valid electronic signature, in the sense of the legislation on electronic authentication and trust services for electronic business, No. If a loan deal is made in telecommunications, 55/2019 After we agreed on these laws, the Committee received indications that the requirement for valid electronic signature in the sense of these laws required substantial and costly changes in consumer loan systems and was unnecessaryly burdensome to reach the target. It is safe to say, a respectable president, that we of the Committee have found something on this matter and have been contacted by people who are familiar with us. I think it's safe to say that most of us have felt that, in fact, it was an electronic identity that we were asking. So we respond to this indication and require an electronic signature to be used. We feel that by this means the goals of change can be achieved without burdening creditors more than is necessary. Then it may be worth retrieving that this is a law that applies to all consumer loans, for example, to form a map, a distribution of credit cards, and as many know how to do it on the phone, not always a valid electronic signature is needed but that the banks have the system, so we are listed in the Internet bank or the app, and it should be necessary. However, there is some question as to whether a customer's appointment requires an electronic signature, but we intend to discuss it more on the committee. With this change, we do not want to be overly burdensome to those who are developing technical solutions. The plan is to prevent the law from controlling the natural development of technology and techniques for identifying users in the business systems of consumer loans but at the same time allowing the possibility of borrowing without borrowing. In this way, authentication will be responsible for the lender's loan loans, which carry the burden of proof that proper authentication has been made to arise in doubt cases. A consumer's office can deny the lender's registration or fail registration from a validation if the Agency does not consider the authentication criteria to be met, such as b-coma 6. track No. 163/2019. In addition to the above, the bill suggests that the lead-in period due to this change will be extended. Is suggested to 3. The value of the law goes to June 1st, 2020. A respectable president. I would also like to read here a short chapter of the article on consumer rights protection. The Commission's work on this bill provided opinions and tips on the specific aspects of questionable loan work and proposals to correct the changes needed to keep them going. For this reason, the Commission points out that the work of the government with this group is not finished, and the committee has emphasized that the trend in this field continues to be followed closely. Then the committee has made a special point of how government work in the field of operations and monitoring the legal process brought forth the rise of the wind. The Commission also points out that rich justice protection for the creditors of consumer loans is already a law on consumer loans, No. 33/2013. In particular, there is IV. The chapter of the law, 12th,520. g., about the information of a creditor and the rights of a loan on loans. In 1st. Section 12. it is stated that credit agreements should be written on paper or on other permanent mediums and that all parties should receive a copy of a loan agreement. That leaves 2 mg. Detailed overview of points that should be clearly and objectively displayed in a credit agreement. The reason why this is so specific is that we, including, have, in particular. in our conversations with the Neycessary Association, be informed that there is some suspicion that borrowers do not always get the original credit card version, they tend to change it. This is where we suggest that the laws on consumer loans should be clear in this respect and, of course, lenders are to hand over the borrower's original loan agreement. A respectable president. I'd also like to mention that after December's approval of this law, the Committee received a letter from sources in financial technology as well as from firms in financial services. Participants, I don't know if I'm right, I'm going to guess, who we're going to go to, but a lot of people we're going to do it far in this law we agreed on in December. On the other hand, the electronic signatures we are reacting to here were concerned with what we were discussing in this legal process that the committee changed in its composure of the Minister's bill, so called AHK, the annual rate of cost, from 50% as had been at the consumer law to 35%. Added to that is the management interest of the Federal Bank at any given time. It was controversial, but I think it's safe to say that most of the members of the Committee and the reviews we received about the original prime minister were in order to suggest that these factors be handled or further restricted at interest costs, the loan costs. Of course, it is possible that with AHK, we are talking about the cost of borrowers, and this is the annual rate of cost so that when borrowing as is short - term, this percentage may, of course, be considerably high. The results of the Commission after a detailed discussion on this point were not making changes here so that we can stick to what the committee decided in December and the council approved, i.e. In consumer law, 35% of the U.S.A. will remain. I was now inclined to look to see if it was not generally accepted here by the entire U.S. Congress. The smaller part of it. As a matter of fact, the Economic and Business Committee had an opinion and suggested that AHK go down to 20% and when, if I don't forget, that proposal was made, I think a general body of Congress has been united by 35%. Here's a nod in the side room. I appreciate that. So it's true. So, in spite of the market tip, if the roof is completed in 35%, the Commission should not make any changes. Then I refer only to the committee that was before the committee in December. As we considered these points and mentioned, there were cases abroad from which we considered them. That's what I hope this bill has a good reception for you. The Economic and Business Committee that also presents this case. In fact, it has been criticized whether it is proper to mention and then refer to a committee, one of which is our tradition. So here it is about certain corrections, so I don't get it too carried away with this discussion about AHK, which I don't doubt, though, that some still want to talk about here because it's a very important subject. So, I would like to reiterate that the law as it seems today should not be too complicated in this sector, and I think it's important, and I think we are. Population members of the Economic and Business Committee all agree on the importance of innovation and technological development in this sector. We do not want to put too hard a frame or some form of fence that prevents such innovation. However, we also believe that innovation should be different from givingortures on very high interest rates.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u38	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion very much, but I felt right and, in fact, felt obliged to discuss the bill as a matter of course. The Economic and Business Committee has joined in. I'd like to say that when it comes to consumer loans, and then maybe merely looking at so-called loans, there's been a great degree of harmony within the committee to establish the protection needed to protect those who are in palaces for various reasons, social and financial, toward unnatural, unhealthy, and sometimes unscrupulous loans. To be said, there may not be many members, perhaps one who sometimes works under more than one hat. It has been a joy to be here in Iceland in recent years to have invented spherical companies, financial companies offering new solutions to the Icelandic consumers, new methods of extending consumer loans. They do their business by law, by regulations and by moral standards. It's important, like a beard. In the past, an authorityman, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, said that we further subject ourselves to innovation and try to facilitate their route because it's the advantage of consumers to get new solutions into the market, but not least that there are more lenders and more competition. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. I think it's safe to say, however, all of us are aware that our mission is not completed. There's a lot to do. Laws about law have to be revised. There may also be gaps in collects, etc., so this job is not running away from us. In the months and years to come, we will undoubtedly have to contend with many of these issues. I hope it's not measured for longer than that. I would like to note, however, that the emphasis on current consumer law has been to look at the annual rates of costs and to try to ensure that it does not get out of control, to put on a roof. We combined here for a year ago to reduce this annual rate of cost from 50% to 35%. This was done in the belief that this is how, at least In part, we could strike a slightly stronger armored city about those at this so - called small loan market, i.e. The borrowers. Of course, the annual cost ratio is important. It is important for all who take loans, on one hand, to identify actual loan expenses, but also to compare different loan forms. It is not merely looking to the interest on the bank but to take into account the overall cost. The annual cost ratio thus measures the total cost of borrowing, i.e. interest rates and other costs, loan costs, credit fees, payment fees, etc. This is calculated to a percentage, and the purpose of the consumer is to recognize the actual cost and also to make it easier to compare the advantages that may be available. The problem with looking in as hard as we have done at the annual rate of cost is that this is not the number of ◯konsitant's (i.e. the annual share of costs takes changes depending on the length of the loan, i.e. the length of the loan, the lower the share. The same is true when it comes to borrowing. As the amount is higher, the annual rate of cost declines. More paydays, however, increase annual rates of cost. This means, in effect, that it is some kind of built-in incentive for people who need for any reason on a temporary short-term loan to think that they should rather borrow a little higher to reduce the annual rate of costs and take it longer than is necessary. In the end, costs will be more expensive than costs ratios will be lower. That's what I'm wondering, my chief. President, whether it is not necessary for a financial and business committee, for the council, for consumer ministers and for other stakeholders such as the consumers, who have given us advice and a good team in all our work, to consider whether it may be a different way to bind and put a roof on the annual rates of costs of greater success, and to the consumers more relevant to providing more protection in such areas. Then I have, for example. See how the Finns have been doing. They have decided to put a roof on a percentage of interest, i.e. interest is not to go up for something firmly, and I think I just say it's 20%, then I can count the cost of a loan of 0.01% every day or so, but never more than 150 euros, if I remember correctly. These numbers may not be applied to Iceland for a number of reasons, here is another growth environment, another cost-producing structure, etc. However, methodology may be much wiser than looking to an annual rate of cost, i.e. to say that we are more looking to put a roof on a permit interest and then to the level of the loan, which will also be a roof in our case. That would be, for example. 0.01% or 0.001% each day as the cost may be, but then never higher than one specific dollar number. It seems to me that this might be more comfortable with what we're up against, at least. It would be unwise for us here at the council Hall, and I won't talk about it. Economic and business committees, to not be particularly concerned about this. Of course, this will not be done in the next few weeks or in the months to come. It will be as opposed to cooperation with stakeholders, consumer organizations, financial companies, big financial companies, then consumer agencies. V.E.G. President. I just wanted to bring this up. This is some kind of meditation. As I've been through this more and more, I'm leaning towards the Finnish route, I'm afraid to say it first. The president now sits in his chair because there are always Swedish and Finnish, Swiss and Scottish roads. According to my information, almost all political groups in Denmark have signed an agreement to oppose the activities of the successful little loan companies, which seem to be rather assaulting the weak and will be introduced by a bill at the dance council this spring months, and we are right to observe. As far as I can see it, they're going the same way as Finnar. We should look at what these two cousins are doing in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u39	Mr. President. I'm not going to repeat the excellent words as hell. My colleagues on the Economic and Business Committee have been tracking this issue, and they've done everything right. This is naturally in the basis of trying to protect consumers, which, in some cases, are being victimized, exploit their positions, and make use of some cases of ignorance, which is a particular problem. First, I would like to talk about two aspects of this matter and ask them: " Why is this matter so complicated? In the foundation, the problem is that in the past when people were going to be involved in some financial gain, especially. Because of borrowing, people had to go to banks, and the process had to be relatively planned. It included conversations with experts and was, in fact, rather burdensome in many ways. All kinds of things had to be checked out. Today, everyone has a telephone in his pocket that allows for further quick decisions for the first and much more flexibility in the business oered. These two things are very good in themselves. We're making good use of the technology to make more of our community, but it actually comes with two types of equipment. First, we need to be complete, much better, in ensuring financiallocks in the public. I'm not going to stop at it any more, just make it clear that we need to be much better at making sure people understand these things. I'm not entirely sure that every member of the Economic and Business Committee has fully understood the annual rate of cost when we started dealing with these issues. I know I didn't, I didn't know exactly what that thing was. In view of the fact that this is our work, it may less be expected that the public will be aware of all that is involved. The other thing may be more complex. As I may have said several times before, the lawgiver understands cryptology today as seriously as the lawgiver understood the consequences of the collapse very badly. There are many indications that the next major losses in society will be the result of a poor understanding of technology that lays the groundwork for all kinds of things, and especially in financial services. Part of what is being discussed in this particular matter is that in the laws adopted by Christmas, we have a requirement for valid electronic signature. This is the thing I thought I understood. This is an electronic signature with a personal key uniquely attached to it, in a very clear way, to a certain person confirmed by a valid trust service. I didn't think at the point that this would cause such trouble at banks. Making a requirement for this is in my mind just a requirement that the bank be assured of who is involved when someone is applying for a loan. But there is much more to this, e.g. The order of action and question of whether a person is identified with a specific computer system. And what is the identity? All of these terms are defined in the European Commission and are given approximately that definition, without reading that word from a word, as it is a fairly complex text, that identification is some kind of confirmation from a trust service that a person is the person she claims to be, based on some kind of challenge to create a valid electronic signature. And then you ask: What's the difference between a valid electronic signature and just a simple electronic signature? I may have been more of a part of my life, from time to time, dealing with cryptology in one way or another. I can say, I'm pretty sure, that there is no cryptological difference, no technical difference between an electronic signature and a valid electronic signature, since it is primarily a legal separation that turns to whether the government had confidence in any particular party to run a solid service in that way. This is complicated, but it is fundamental to all financial interests more or less because people are increasingly using electronic documents to sign each type of paper. Then there are questions such as: Must you sign the document yourself, or is it sufficient to sign what is called in English caused by the president's permission by the document? Anyone who has a minor understanding of cryptology would say yes, it's about the same thing. But the legal method is not necessarily the case. We need as lawgivers to keep these technical issues clear, at least some basic understanding of them, in order to have enough discussions about this. Otherwise, we are always trying to see that legislation is not perfect, that it is out of harmony with technology, and that we are creating unnecessary problems for society or individuals. This can prevent innovation and technology from developing and everything. I'm not sure what the solution is, but I just wanted to mention these things because these things are happening more and more. This is at least the third or fourth language of last year, where understanding of cryptology has been involved in the treatment of a case with an economic and business committee. At some point, we need to make sure that there's at least minimal understanding of these matters, and perhaps when they do, we can be sure that we're doing things right and don't have to be sticking the songs afterwards, as I'm sorry you need them to do. This said that I encourage financial lock again in the country, plus cryptologists here at the council, and we generally continue to do good work. It's a good bill. It'll fix something. We may need to take a look at the technical side of the committee, but I hope that it will run out and be a blessing to everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u40	Mr. President. I'm gonna extend the discussion a little. It's important, I believe, that this discussion will show that there's a lot of harmony here. The Economic and Business Committee for this matter. In fact, the work and discussion that have been discussed in the committee over the matter are all in the same direction. The members of the council here have spoken before me, many of them have entered it. It is proper to mention working hard. The members of the council of the Gamaldsdots and the Oddný G. Prior to a year's trial, my Harðardóttir was considered to be an exemplary fellow worker for the case, and the landing was in a better way than it had been. But like a dog. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy came in earlier is a specific issue of action, especially with this identity. That's something we're going to fix out of town for tips. It's like the highest. In the discussion, the president has no doubt taken note of the opportunity to discuss these matters in a slightly larger context than the current bill, and I agree with the members of the council who have discussed this matter, namely, to discuss these matters. about such consumer loans, what we have in our day - to - day conversations called a small loan, is of utmost importance. There are several things that are important there, including this with an annual rate of costs of importance, i.e. what is actually being paid to borrow money if there were a loan to a whole year. Similarly, growthpropentan is also important and potent. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason came in just fine from here on what the difference between the two might be and may not be a reason to discuss it further. In fact, what I would like to talk about is what I would like to call the social or community ills that the need for loans such as these are, i.e. that significant business opportunities are involved, let's say, feeding on the plight of others when there is a lack of money in this situation. It is a model that actually builds on the value of people who are in temporary financial difficulties. That's why I feel that there's a lot of debate about whether this needs to be dealt with and whether more rigid rules have to be made than we have right now. However, this type of work is working, including At the Ministry of Justice, as well as at the Ministry of Employment and Development, it's actually being tried to make the paces difficult to arrange for consumers to be protected where possible. It may be difficult to forbid borrowing, but it can be forbidden to offer excessive loans to those who are in trouble. Therefore, I thought that there was reason to discuss it and to mention it only here in the symposium that the committee all agree on the main objectives of the bill and on those laws. Time will then tell us how important it must be to tighten the screws that are already hardened. I'm expecting that. The committee will work fast and well on this case, thus quickly getting back into the Hall and finishing the small change here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u41	President. There are mixed feelings about standing here again and measuring up for this matter. I'm glad I'm hoping I'm finally going to make it work, and it's good. But to some extent, the joy of having to stand here again and measure some time ago which should be as likely as a cry of international peace for nuclear weapons and putting the prohibition on nuclear - powered vehicles. President. This is not the first time recommended for this matter. In fact, this is the 15th time it is done, so here it is old and good acquaintance, but it's all fifteen or something in that case, we could say that everything has been involved in combat equipment, weapons, armies, and military establishments in this country have caused conflict in certain groups, people have had different opinions about it. But it is my belief that after the General Assembly was united in national security policy, there should now be at least one single thought among members of Congress to bring about this matter. Even if good counsel is never too often said, there may be no need to cover this matter in detail, so that it should be known. Councilmen. In the shortest case, the bill is about it, as indicated at 1 Corinthians 15: 58. ... that Iceland is a peace-installed area where it is forbidden to place, place or store, move around or treat in any other way a nuclear weapon. The passage of nuclear - powered vehicles is banned in the declared territory, however, in accordance with regulations 10. , as well as transport or release of nuclear waste and nuclear waste. So I'll be the one to go to 10. The article that is referred to says in it: ▪ Despite regulations of verses 6 and 8. and 1st. Count 9. it is permitted to provide a reserve for peaceful traffic or travel through vehicles without unnecessary repairs in or at sea or on international routes to the extent necessary to satisfy international commitments. Such provisions, however, can never take place within 12 miles of water and upstream airspace. This law does not limit the right of all countries to a peaceful invasion of the weekend in the sense of the United Nations Sea Convention of December 10, 1982. In other words, it is taken into account that in some cases it may be necessary to give annuity with the limits to which it is to be broken. President. Two. explains clearly the origin and the idea behind this legislation: ▪ The aim of these laws is to make all the Icelandic region nuclear weapons free, to gain a peaceful international recognition, to reduce the risk of nuclear reactors in Iceland and around Iceland, and to promote disarmament and peace by Iceland. I don't believe it until I accept it, Mr. President, that anyone sitting at the High Council can resist these goals. There is no need for many to comment on how dangerous nuclear weapons are or the power of nuclear energy in the form of fuel to drive vehicles. And what would happen to us, on an island in the middle of the prom sea, depending on the resources of the country, if there was a nuclear accident? We're concerned about a number of things, whether or not we're gonna be able to get a smooth landing in the economy, if we can build up the tourism services, etc. - but it would all go out the window. This is a serious matter, Mr. President, and our responsibility is to make sure that it will not be. The need may never have been greater than just right now. For decades, the world in ironheats was a cold war, a balance of terror, where the threat of nuclear weapons was so great that no one feared to use it; the risk of the consequences of baits, the so - called foam policy. The International Society made various covenants between themselves to reduce that risk, reduce the number of nuclear weapons, and make the world a little more peaceful. In recent years, however, with various new rulers around the world, with a different view of international cooperation, a focus change in which rulers focus primarily on the supposed interests of their State, I allow myself to say, president, less on the international community, less on the world and the earth we all build. Unfortunately, the need for Iceland to take the initiative in disarmament and nuclear peace resolution has increased rather than because of international events. There is a report that the United States has reversible its involvement in the nuclear agreement with Iran, the nuclear invasion of North Korea, and the fact that nuclear powers completely ignore the agreement not to distribute nuclear weapons - and the one named in English, by permission of President Treaty on the Non-Poliferation of Nucles Weathers, NPT, which obligates them to nuclear disarmament. Then the nuclear powers are looking with increased interest in the northern regions. President. There is yet another reason why the need is greater than ever to accept this bill. Increased interest, not just for superpowers, but for various countries, in northern areas, with changing circumstances, especially after climatetime, makes nuclear and nuclear - powered vehicles even greater. It is hoped, then, that the Council can now unite and legalize the government's declared wishes that Iceland has no role in the development, storage, or transport of nuclear weapons and contributes to a peaceful world. The movers are at this point three members of the General Assembly and are beside me. Councilmen Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Harðardóttir Þóra Árnadóttir, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándænsdóttir, Magnúsdóttir Rafiy Magnústóttir, Oddný G.. I assure you, Mr. President, this is by no means a complete list of the supporters of this bill. It can be noted that the vast majority of rural society in this country has declared that their territory is at peace with nuclear weapons. In fact, there are just three rural communities that have not signed such a statement: Smokeytown, Snout Standard Bus, and Grimnes. If we anticipate Iceland's map and reduce the land of these three rural partners from that, there's quite a lot left of the Iceland card. In fact, rural communities, which cover almost all of Iceland, with these exceptions, and certainly there are large rural communities under it also, have already declared a peace description of nuclear weapons. Despite the lack of legal significance of declarations by the rural government, they can be viewed as a significant declaration from the rural community that the whole country should be declared. Nothing should interfere with the fact that the existing desire for the vast majority of rural society will be established for the whole country. It was also accompanied by the gaining the international acceptance of other countries and international organizations, especially the nuclear powers themselves, in Iceland as a non-terrestrial region. President. We sometimes talk about it here that we should listen to local authorities' will. We're working on some programs where we're suggesting we want the government. I refer to policy for rural society in general. Here's your country partner's will. All but three have declared that they are at peace with nuclear weapons. Let's hear it, Mr President. The need has rarely been greater. I considered how international agreements have weakened, unfortunately. It is also noted that the British now reinvent their weapons, including nuclear weapons. Sadly, it is only that even the president of France has ambition to become more relevant in this regard. There is no need to question the need for us to accept this matter. Then there is the advice of the International Court of Justice in Hague regarding the use of nuclear weapons and its threat. In view of the greater part of the judgment, the threat or threat and the use of nuclear weapons would generally be contrary to international law in armed conflicts and in particular international humanitarian rights. The nature of nuclear weapons is such that their application will always bite civilians, as well as cause environmental damage and further harm to civilians. Does the president need any further evidence than this, that we will peace our country with these weapons? It would be unsettled to trace the prehistory of this case that is here, as I said before, for the fifteenth time. A list of what? Senators who've been tourists in this case are very long, and I'm amazed. Councilmen to study the background of a detailed review in the motion. As I said before, there's a lot of hope that this case doesn't have to be returned. I don't think the explanation must be that because of lack of time, I didn't get through because I don't believe it until I deal with it. Senators who adopted national security policy for Iceland on April 13, 2016, do not intend to vote on this matter. And why? Yes, because the 10th critical national security policy is silent, by permission of the President: To Iceland and Iceland, as well as to national immunity, is a peace of mind for nuclear weapons, taking into account international commitments, with the intention of promoting disarmament and peace of Iceland on the part of the European Union. - That's exactly what this proposal is all about. The national security policy was adopted by 42 joint votes. I hope that one thing will be done, not necessarily 42 votes, but that it will be agreed here together. This is merely a policy that was agreed within the hall of the Generals, and all of us must unite in the outworking of this matter. I'm not gonna keep this any further, Mr. President. I could keep a very long number of these matters, since they are very dear to me and should be to us all, and I think that when you look closely, they may be. I got it. I got it. The U.S.R. to welcome this matter, remember approved national security policy and its goals, do not get stuck in an out - of - date ideologies when it comes to attitudes toward war and arms use, looking ahead, and making peace with Iceland's nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u42	Mr. President. Little wonder that more members of a council of the left - green may come to discuss this matter. It may be that in the end, this issue is not about the left and right of this classic political label game. We heard it earlier when we listened to talks about digital printing, how much Congress can sometimes agree when left and right do not seem to be part of the discussion. For the second time in a few decades, we can see that tension between superpowers, all of which are more or less nuclear powers, is growing, and then you look at the two issues that are present before the council. On the one hand is the matter discussed here, the bill on the prohibition of nuclear - powered vehicles and military equipment here in Iceland and the national peace description of nuclear weapons. The second, it's a contingency proposal. paritaprevir The Steinunn of Þóra Árnadóttir has proposed, centered on the validation of the United Nations Convention on the prohibition of nuclear weapons. Both of these issues are very difficult to stamp left or right. I'm going to allow myself to spend a little time here at the Council, on the one hand, as a politician or a senator with a certain moral nature, and as a naturalist, to comment on these matters, to come up with speculations and questions, even moral questions. Since the end of the last world war, nuclear weapons have put countless features in international and international relations. It may seem surprising to define legal wars and illegal wars. There are international agreements from above in the treatment of prisoners of war. The question is, Does the use of nuclear weapons really mean that there is no longer a legal or illegal war? Whether nuclear weapons were used in illegal or legal warfare, it really would be the end of a legal society that has been attempted to build up. We have tried to define legal casualties, that is also today's absurdity. In other words, soldiers can be killed, not civilians. So there is something called a legal loss. But when nuclear weapons are used, there is no more separation. It also puts our legal society, or legalized, international society, into peculiar light. Similarly, the definition of war crime. Yes, all of us know that the use of nuclear weapons in Hiroshima and Nagasaki is actually a war crime or not. Although there was a legal war under international law, homicide in the former Yugoslavia is defined as war crimes. This is also about genocide. How many have to kill with weapons to be a genocide? Why, then, would the use of nuclear weapons not always be genocide? Or is it because it will then be in a legitimate war? These speculations and questions show how far we have come from the person ourselves. In addition, the effects of nuclear weapons are inevitably long - term, long - term, and destructiveness on a standard so that all living things on earth would be severely threatened, not just human beings, but all other living things, so the effect is that what we call a legal international community is more or less limited in our choice. In the face of nuclear weapons, you can also wonder about the benefits. If I were a general in this chair, I'd probably defend the nuclear weapons because they were useful in some way. Then the question is, Is it really a balance, as shown in the case of what? paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otter's son Proppér, or is that the result? Is that why the nuclear weapons are useful? A balance of terror is so severe that if someone interferes with balance on one side, the balance on the other side is disturbed. The effect is far beyond the territory of the one who uses nuclear weapons first. A balance of terror, therefore, really makes you feel empty. Like all who care about this matter of peace, many have said that there is no winner in a war with nuclear weapons. With the result: Will weapons be used, then, short? Then ask: Is the use of nuclear weapons a global war, a short war that is more desirable than a long war? Or are we thinking about this so that only one nuclear bomb will be used and all will surrender? Is that really the thought? Thus, it might be thought of this benefits that rulers must keep in mind when defending the existence of nuclear weapons. It must then be part of the existence that I am describing, or the use will be of war. To me and probably the majority of the world's population, there's no justice at all. There is nothing that justifies the existence or use of nuclear weapons, and that is long known, is more efficient than threatening weapons, and enough room for those who end in war to use them without nuclear weapons and even their conquests. To me, the nuclear weapons are an adventureful mass killing devices that must soon be eliminated. Of course, some agreements have to be recycled, even now in an upset area and have to be restricted as much as possible to their traffic through the oceans and the air and countries while they exist. That is why the council arrangement is in place, and the bill deserves all the way to vote for the council. Likely, all 63 members of the Icelandic Parliament are in opposition to the existence and use of nuclear weapons. Of course, what stands in the way of this operation is our involvement in a certain military alliance. It's the defence, the security, the opinions have changed. I'm not going to join those psalms. But this, of course, is what divides us into two different parties. In any case, in view of the world situation, by the size of mankind, compared with the rest of the problems we are dealing with, I own, for example. In the case of climate change, Iceland, the Icelandic Parliament, the United States government, should launch a paper by taking the lead as a member of a military alliance and making sure that both of these issues become portable.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u43	Mr. President. At the beginning of my speech, I want to celebrate this bill. Like what? paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé came into them, but for some reason I could not access the list this year. Of course, I'm an enthusiastic sponsor of this bill, but don't lie to the Senate papers. And it says that last time in 2010, I had a comparable experience. Perhaps there is reason to say, what to say, to renew your vows to this course, and that may be in and with the purpose that I have come into the House of II. The other is, I may not feel that I have made it clear enough in my case. Here's what leads to what could really happen if an accident occurred in a country that turned to nuclear or nuclear waste. Sadly, these studies have already been carried out in the world. Congress members know such terrible nuclear accidents as in Chernobyl and Fukshima, who have not only damaged the environment that is permanent but also suffered tragic consequences for the inhabitants of the region and have brought permanent loss of life, ark, and illness. Wait a minute. Councilmen realize that in these cases it was a so - called peaceful use of nuclear power. This was not about the voyages of holyols or war machines about territory or anything like that. Rather, it was the peaceful use of this kind of energy. We're in Iceland, like what. A traveler came on, totally dependent on our resources, people either consume them, or enjoy as individuals in the wild, eat fish or meat or vegetables or what they are. Those senators who saw the great Chernobyl shows on television can discern the terrible consequences of their land conditions when they cannot be used for years and decades and even for years together to produce food. This could lead to disastrous consequences for Icelanders. That is why it is very important that we, as members of Congress and Congress, gather together to complete this matter once and for all, not to talk about in the light of what has already been done in national security policy. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé came in earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u44	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the meaning of the lips of the occupied areas of Palestine. Transporters with me on this proposal are why. Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, S. Brjánsson Helgadóttir, Guðjón, Jánddor Valdimarsson, Steindór Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfsdótir, and Odorn Gunnarsson Hrafn of Grens. I'm going, with President's permission, to read the suggestion itself directly as it comes up, because it's rather short: ▪ The General concludes to hide the government from resorting to necessary measures to mark the origin of products produced in the occupied areas of Palestine by proper means and by making it possible for Palestinians to take advantage of the benefits of their EFTA and Palestine. That's how the line of reasoning sounds. This suggestion, however, has been made quite often before, but not quite as often as the above - mentioned case. However, it has been transferred to the 141, 142, 143, 144, 145, and 146th legislation, and in the 149th legislation, but has not yet been paid, and is largely transported unchanged. What has changed between councils is that a report on business statistics has been updated as the number has been desolated to obtain new numbers and new data. The political alliance between Iceland and Israel has a somewhat long history, and business between the nations has been significant. According to the Habitat figures, the import of goods went from 918.6 billion. K. In 2017 and 2,181.9 million. K. in 2018. Information from Iceland's Habitat stated that there was no transfer from Palestine between 2010 and 2018. As mentioned earlier, the synoptic proposal is about the use of products produced in the occupied areas of Palestine. In many parts of the world, governments and consumers have come to realize that parts of Israel's exports are not due to areas within the international approved border of the State of Israel but to illegal settlements in the occupied areas of Palestine, mainly on the western bank of the Jordan and on the eastern city of Jerusalem. These settlements have increased, although they are at war against internationally established borders, the Council of the International Court of Justice of Hague and a number of UN conclusions. Adding to this is the fact that last week, there was a tiny movement on these matters, where the United Nations Office of Human Rights sent out a list of 112 businesses that are linked to an illegal Israeli region in a Palestinian country. But this list was compiled at the request of the Council of Human Rights. So there are some 112 companies, 94 in Israel and 18 in six other countries, such as the United States, France, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Thailand, and Britain. And the fact that this list has been put together and has already existed, I believe that there is some international effort or tendency to link business with political responsibility. I hope that he will also be a source of added pressure on this matter right now. Iceland, like the United Nations, has never recognized the settlements as part of the kingdom of Israel and should therefore not be recognized as the homeland of products produced in the settlements. In 2015 the European Commission sent out instructions on such markings but, unfortunately, there has been insufficient progress in this global issue. But as I went over here earlier, I hope that with the list that has come from the United Nations, it will be moving on. With the measures made by this Parliamentary proposal, the Icelandic consumers would be able to decide for themselves whether to support the economy in the occupied areas of Palestine, and there is no doubt that such products would have a lot to do with the trade of Iceland and Israel but rather to make products that are recorded as Israelite products and that are truly produced in Israelite areas less suspicious. As I considered in the deliberation text, it is also discussed in this suggestion to enable the Palestinians to make use of the benefits of the EFTA and Palestine vacation agreements. The European Free Trade Association and the Palestinian Freedom Association, on behalf of the National Council of Palestine, have made a temporary free trade deal that went into effect on July 1, 1999, and it is printed as a paper of the Parliament's resolution. The purpose of the temporary agreement was to ensure a balance between the EFTA and the European Union in trade with the countries of the southern Mediterranean. At that time, the treaty was considered to be an important link in support of the peace process above the Mediterranean Sea. Sadly, the agreement has not been active as planned, and the trade of EFTA with Palestinian habitats is limited. In 2018, only 28.6 million euro were involved and were, in effect, mere EFTA exports to Palestine. So it didn't go the other way. It has been claimed that Israel, in effect, will prevent Palestinians from completing this contract and will enjoy the benefits of the land of Palestinian inhabitants being torn apart by walls that prevent them from tilling their land and normal transport. As I said at the beginning of my speech, this is not the first time recommended for this proposal. In 2017 the story was sent out to review and received a positive report from the European Union of Iceland, which may not be surprising, but also from the European Union, which is important. The important thing is that a positive report from the State Department was also received that the Ministry of State makes it seem reasonable for consumers to be informed about the origin of the products they are buying. According to the Ministry of State, Israel's rural areas in the occupied areas of Palestine also violate international law, adding that the settlements are in areas that are not recognized internationally as members of Israel. It also claims that from 2011 onward, the General Assembly of Iceland recognized the independence and sovereignty of Palestine in that region. Thus, the Free Trade Act of EFTA treats Israel only to geographical areas within the established border of Israel, not to the settlements. Thus, it may be considered unnatural that goods produced in the rural areas of the occupied areas are marked as production from Israel and that special provision from the settlements was therefore a natural step. As I have traced it, it is a huge justice, but it is similar with consumers. Here, in the international political climate, it is important that companies do not falsify where products are actually produced and under what circumstances and where consumers have the right to know where the goods are from. And just as I studied in my speech, I believe this too can benefit from an Israelite business that is operating in Israel. This should, therefore, be positive for both parties, i.e. if we give ourselves the premise not to be overbearing and false. I'm hoping now that I will be able to move on this matter, in which the United Nations has made a report and published it. Like I said, she came out last week, so hopefully the discussion will start. I think it's important here that Iceland is on its feet when it comes to these matters, that we've been in the past on matters relating to Palestine. So I propose that after this discussion, the case will be referred to the State Department, and I hope we will set this up and finish this matter later at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Here's the Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadótir reporting in which we will discuss a proposal to evangelize the meaning of goods from occupied parts of Palestine. I'm especially glad that in this suggestion it is discussed trying to make use of the benefits of the EFTA holiday contract in Palestine. I think it's very important that the contract actually get the original project and it will strengthen the position of Palestine and the economy that is absolutely necessary. First, I'd like to come into the settlements that have been mentioned here. Of course, we do, and we agree that Israel must comply with the Geneva Convention, which has four international agreements within which it states that it is not to be carried over by its own people or State to its occupied territory. The number of settlements on the West Bank is now, I think, around 132 and the number of Israels living in the land area is about 14% of the total population and has reached approximately 14% of the population. 427,000. That's what happened to you. This is against international law, and it has also had a very bad effect on the peace talks and actions that have repeatedly been tried to continue but have gone very wrong. It is vital that we as a nation in our conversations with the Israelite government do not compromise that these settlements are against international law. In November 2015, the European Union agreed to signal special products from the land area. The European Union and Israel have made a special business agreement, which is the value of a free trade contract where Israelite goods enjoy special delights. However, it is clearly stated that goods produced in the rural areas do not fit in with this agreement. In 2009, Britain's government provided instructions on how to distinguish products produced in the western shore from products produced by Palestinians in the West Bank. Denmark adopted similar rules in 2013 and Belgium in 2014. The instructions are particularly so that products produced in the land that produce goods in Israel cannot be marked. Mark goods produced on the western bank as goods produced on the west bank, but in parentheses they stand in an area of land. The European Union's own responsibility is, in turn, how well this is carried out. It is therefore permitted to sell goods from the rural areas of the European Union, which need to be marked. The European Union has published less than 1% of the European Union's export to the European Union, which is a fairly low percentage. However, the European Union does not support subtracting from Israel's products or using the land of commerce. I believe that we should follow it, and I object to shunning the goods from Israel, and I will address them in more detail below. From an economic point of view, i.e. on the part of Israel, it has been pointed out that this effect is relatively small. Those who want to shun goods from Israel will surely do so already. Similarly, those who especially want to support Israel will not look specifically for purchases from the land area. The products particularly involved are grapes, dates, red wine, white wine, honey, olive oil, and cosmetics. The western bank has nearly 30 vineyardes in the country's settlements, a total of about 150. The most famous vineyard in Israel is in the hill of Golan. It is a region that is not recognized by the international community. In October 2018, French governments fell from the requirement to signal special goods from the settlement because of a lawsuit held by several Israel's government officials, as it were, against French governments. But let's only increase to the economic situation in Palestine. According to recent World Bank figures, poverty and unemployment in Palestine have continued to increase. Last year, on the West Bank, unemployment was by an average of 15%, which had decreased by 2% since 2018. However, the level of unemployment in Palestine varies greatly. In Bethlehem it is 23%, in Jenin, about 22%, but in Jerusalem it is 7% that is considered low in this area. However, in Gaza, unemployment is 47% and increases, with 70% and 29% of young people in Palestine living in poverty. In Gaza, this number is 80%. However, education is very important to Palestinians and is viewed as an answer to the occupation. However, more than 40% of those graduates from a university in Palestine get no work. Thus, the Palestinians, in view of the future, may live with hopelessness. Last year, a major survey of the Palestinian research site AMAN was conducted on which members of the community projects were considered to be the most important, and the conclusion was that the most important project was the economy. Then will I only consider what I mentioned at the beginning, why I object to shunning goods from Israel. There are over 23,000 Palestinians who work in western settlements and have increased by 1,000 since 2018, many of them on construction projects and factories, as well as on vineyards. In all, some 133,000 Palestinians serve in Israel and are occupying the land. The pay is up to three times higher than that offered in Palestine if at any other table you can get a job. As an example of the effects of shunning goods from Israel, how it can affect Palestinians, in 2015 Israel's Sodastream factory in Palestine closed down the settlement. She moved it away because of the influence of a so-called BDS movement that subtracts from Palestine. 600 Palestinians lost their jobs on one board, and they certainly had a tremendous impact on families. Palestinians themselves have criticized this movement, including did this in a talk in 2013, the president of the country, Abbas. However, I would like to present it here in my speech that I consider it a great opportunity for us Icelanders to adopt this conversation with the Israelites. We know that our political relationship with Palestine and Israel is good. In 2011, Iceland was the first Western country to accept the independence of Palestine, and Iceland also played a vital role in the establishment of the kingdom of Israel in 1948. Over the years, the relationship between the countries was long high, but in the past, it has declined substantially, particularly because of the occupation that we condemned. Here, though, I insist that the Israelites respect Iceland and view us as a friendly nation. I believe that we should be very careful to discuss the matter specifically by shunning goods from Israel because this, unfortunately, is having a bad effect on many Palestinians. It's just the situation, and we have to look to it. It is vital, however, that we take up the conversation with Israel, especially about the settlements, in view of the confidence that the State has in us and that it is a fundamental part of this course of peace in the waters of the Mediterranean Sea between Palestine and the Israelites. This is just so that the European Union is not secure among the Israelites and has not been successful in seeking peace. The same could be said of the United States. They do not have the trust among Palestinians, so they have not been successful in these matters. I believe that we Icelanders have a certain short - range opportunity that we should consider, and I think it's important that we put into the sad issue between the Israelites and the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u46	President. Thank you. A senator's excellent speech, presented with knowledge of the circumstances in this distant area, and very illuminating. I would like to make a decision, because of repeated warnings from a senator that products should not be avoided, that, of course, the proposed proposal is merely to mark the origin of products produced in the occupied areas of Palestine in an appropriate way and, on the other hand, to enable Palestinians to use the merits of the EFTA and Palestine vacation agreement. I know why. A senator knows that. I can't sit down, Mr. President, asking why. A senator, because when I listened to his good description of the situation, and of course. A senator himself used the word of occupation, whether there is a basis for a different procedure in this occupation than in general occupational and in other places, i.e. When one nation has taken hold of another, and takes possession of the land. Is there any reason to look at this over there, which is the exact concept as good as any. A senator used, undergrad? Get close to what you're thinking. A senator, about how to treat the situation there, over such a situation in general?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u47	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I think it is important in this regard that international law be followed, as mentioned at the outset of my talk. That's why I think so, for example. that this so-called U.S. Peace Conference is still born. Moreover, it has been observed that the Palestinians have totally rejected it at the very beginning. It may be that in a very short time since some selected members of the United Nations offered proposals for a possible solution to this issue - this has not been formally introduced, I heard of this very recently - as a sort of answer to American proposals. The main theme of this proposal is to comply with international law. Of course, it is to be the primary purpose of seeking peace in this difficult issue. Basically, I'd like to answer a question. The members of the body of elders are to have exactly the same state of the issue, that is to be followed by international law. This controversy is naturally very long and difficult, and it has taken many lives and great sacrifices and conditions, for example. Gaza is very sad. I've been there myself, and you leave there with grief in your heart. I think it is very important that we as Icelanders and nations who have confidence among both these nations, both sides of the dispute, take hold of this matter. [[The president calls.]] Although we're a small people on a global scale, I think we're big when it comes to peace issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u48	President. I can't help but agree with what. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson's son. We have a history of applying ourselves in this area, i.e. by talking to all the debaters. It's very obvious, and I couldn't agree with it. A senator on this matter. I don't even intend to call it a solution, a suggestion for a peaceful solution, when America, in a conversation with another person, propose ideas without talking to the other person and, like, cooperating. A senator went over here, in the dirt of the dispute. It is not a real will for peace, I suppose. That's my opinion. But again, Mr President, I'd like to thank the senator for an illuminating speech and an answer. Because of what? A senator repeated warnings against shunning goods and saying very fine reasons, so I just wanted to ask myself, " Is what is suggested here similar to what is bad? ' A senator went over the fact that it had been done, e.g. in the European Union, if I noticed correctly, and whether or not. A senator is not satisfied with the mention of products produced in occupied areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u49	Mr. President. I realize this is a matter of marking goods. It's not about nudity. I just wanted to come on to it because there's a tendency sometimes to take the next step on these topics and not to mind me because I know it comes from biting Palestine itself. That's my primary argument. Each activity in Palestine is extremely important, and it is amazing what families can really live on with a small salary. That is why each activity is of vital importance. Sadly, only the Palestinians, they work, have to provide for a family, and there are jobs available in the rural areas. They are far better paid than jobs in Palestine, up to three times that in Palestine. I don't see anything wrong with marking products in itself and that we follow the European Union in this regard. But I think it really matters very little, especially in this country. However, there may be some who would cancel buying the product if it claimed that it was produced in a rural area. In fact, we come back to this: When we go to the store and see a product marked so that it is produced in a land of land and we decide not to buy it, we may be helping them to reduce production from this specific area, followed by some Palestinians coming to the point of losing their jobs. We don't know. [[The president calls.]] Once again, it's all very difficult because if you talk to Palestinians who work in the country of land, they're primarily happy that they have a job and can support their families. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is the situation in this area and something that we should take up with the government in that country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u50	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen on timelines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u51	Mr. President. It should not be necessary to say that I am a supporters of the proposal that we address here end up one of the transporters. It's nice to tell you that for the members of the council now in the hall, I'm probably the only one who was fortunate enough to vote with the Senate resolution proposal in his day for recognition of Palestine's independence. I remember very well that moment, and I even remember where I was sitting in the hall, that had a profound effect on the soul condition of a man at that time, and a few members of the council were caught when this was agreed to do so. In view of the discussion in the international community today, I do not speak of the speculations that have been going on in recent years, including the following questions. On the west side of the ocean, on how people envision communication between Israel and Palestine, and in effect imagine that this interaction is hardly an issue for the Palestinians, I think it is even more important that we as a national assembly, although in little fact, do so in this way affect our attitude with these fellow Christians.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u52	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the practicality consideration of the construction of Forest Coast Road. Transporters are beside me. Councilmen Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Bergþór Ólason, Elvar Eyvindsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Hjaltason Ólafur unlafur Ísleifsson, Thorgggrimsson, Sigmundsson and Þýstein Sæmundsson. The General concluded to hide transport and local government ministers in part that there will be a wide range of practical checks on the construction of the Forest Coastway on the north of Snæfells, between the Padding Valley and the Stykisholm, as a whole. This study will take into account the social and cohesive effects of thus extending transport between communities in northern Snæfells, through Dali, in the Rhoolians, through southern West and north on the Coast. Special attention should be given to strengthening the area as one job and service area, building tourism and road safety. The minister will submit the results of the economic study for the General Assembly and the cost plan for building the building project at the latest of April 1, 2020. Of course, it is a rather short period of time, but it can only be said: As soon as you want to. If I interrupt the report, it will show that this council proposal was previously proposed to the 148th legislature Council of 169, of Bjarni Jónsson. The case was referred to an environment and transport committee that sent the case for review. The case is now reassigned with a slightly altered report. A study of an accident - related accident rate between 2007 and2010 under Þóroddur Bjarnason revealed that the Forest Coast Road was one of the three most dangerous roads in the country. There is no reason to believe that this has changed for the better, since the news of traffic accidents on this road is fast becoming difficult, realizing that he is by no means subject to traffic, nor is his purpose to form a close link between the inhabited areas where he lies. Maintenance and improvements in this road have virtually not been made in recent years and decades, and little attention has been given to it that the importance of communication between communities and the growth of tourism and trade in these areas. The whole road is in low ground along the sea, and there is no mountain road to go that is the first to be blocked by the weather and snow. Thus, it would be effortless to maintain the built - up road of wood all year long. In Parliamentary Reconception No. 11/149 of the transport programme for 2019 constitutes the cost of construction at the Forest Coast Road of 1.5 billion. but first assumed funding for the project during the second season of the programme, i.e. 2,2262028. During that period, 450 million are gone. K. conducted on the road, 650 million. K. in the third season of the plan, 2029◯2333. The date for the completion of the project has not yet been established, but it is clear from a transport program that will not be at least over the next 15 years. I'd like to state that since this was written, a reevaluated transport program has been developed where there is an even greater delay in the process. But I don't quite know what it's like to get it done, but at least it's drawn even more. Such waiting for needed improvements in the road is unacceptable and important that early funding be ensured. As early as the construction of the Forest Coastway, it is required that it no longer become an accident trap and receive its transport role. With the expansion of the migration of northern Snæfells and the interior of the British world, new opportunities open up to a variety of cooperations and improved services, such as health and education. As is the case today, the inhabitants of these settlements, which will be linked together with a well - built road through Forest Coasts, are most likely to travel long distances to cross areas, although it is possible to get through the rough road of the year. These settlements are expected to fight in a professional and local way. In view of increased tourism, the area is rich in variety of nature, history, and cultural traditions that could support the development of tourism if transportation was readily available. This synonym is intended to help achieve the structure of this important transport structure as soon as possible. This is especially so by carefully examining the importance of such improvements and by drawing closer to the forwarding of these roads. Since I mentioned a transport program, most of us agree that this process needs to be accelerated. Similarly, there are other roads that are poor, so to speak, such as Waters Road and a hunting necklace that are somewhere in the distance in a transport program, and it is very sad when we are talking about the structure of the land and the building of fragile areas. It must be at the top of the program where transportation is acceptable so that broken homes can be supported. That's what I'm saying. I'm not gonna have this any further. I have this dream that the situation will be well advanced on a transport committee so that we can contribute to the development of the development of this area even more than this, with improved transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u53	A respectable president. I wanted to take advantage of this opportunity and come up with this earlier discussion on the Senate resolution of a practical opinion on the construction of Forest Road, where I am one of the importers. A foresty road is one of the few root roads of the country, where there is still unbound stretcher layer, a poor malar road, so that a mild word is taken, if I remember correctly, a 57 miles [57 km], and the development of this region, along the wood coast road and adjacent areas, all signs show that these objects were allowed to descend for a long time. Looking at the early stages of communication and the flow between Snæfellsness and Dala, all of them were much greater than in recent decades and were devoted to the fact that transportation has been the same as that of the Forest Coastway. If we then look in the other direction, if we have the Stykisholm as a point, at the Nesi, where transportation is fatal and good, all communication is different from what is today between the Dala and the Sunfallsness. Especially with the fact that there is one of the very few foundations of the country that is not yet built up and that is not limited to broken marks, it is not just justified but necessary for the Council to try to control this matter and set a course in the transport program for success. On short notice, I think that the area from Hawkdal, Dala, has been carefully examined to the Heydals Roads, and it should be possible to get started fairly quickly with projects if funding occurs. It's that I'm going to keep more work on the Heydals Roads, and I'm going into the Eelfjörður and onto the Helgafells. But it's a project that, of course, needs to be done while you're on the other side of the road, so to speak, on the side of the Valley side. I think it's necessary to push the matter more freely. Like what? paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson came in earlier, a revised transport plan was submitted by the highest level. A secretary of transportation for the first week of December, which is after this synonym was submitted. So the figures in the report take into account the highest plan. A secretary of transportation, as it was submitted more than a year ago, sees that a project and work on the Swamp Road is quite far into the future. Thus, in the 5 - year - old and 15 - year - old transport programmes, the highest level of transport. In the first week of December, the secretary of transportation suggested that there are no budgets in the Forest Road during the first period, covering the years in 2002•2024, followed by a second period of funding, in the course of the programme, between 2025◯2029, with a major increase in the third period and thereafter. To put it in perspective, of course, many people experience that the third period of transportation is so small in the wind and when the main weight in terms of financing is placed in the third period, knowing to each servant that he will hardly be in office to complete that assignment. I think we need to find ways, and it has to be done in the process of transport, to make a significant contribution to the budget for new projects, to some extent to the extent that more of the environment and transport committees contributed to the budget submitted for over a year, and that is the work being done at the Committee today. I don't think there's any way that men are looking to finish this course sometime near 2040. There are far too many years in which to look for a counterweightable link between the Shinfells and the Dali to that time. It's not just a way to meet the impact, it's heading for the legal unit of rural society if you look to the highest bill. A secretary of transportation in that area. The choices facing the valley side and along to the Coast of these areas - they need to be the most varied. I say for myself that I would like to see this legal force fall here in the Senate's affairs, hoping that there will be a conclusion, on the basis of the bill that the secretary of transportation has now proposed to the government's so - called consultations. The legal bill that has to do with the legal process has not arrived at the council. But I think that hooking the Dala area with the Snæfellsnes will contribute to the development of tourism in both areas. It will increase the flow of tourists from the Snæfells to the Valley and then to the southern part of the West or to the Coast. And this is part of what we have to bear in mind right now, when it should be clear to everyone that it is always more and more important to distribute the vast number of tourists coming here to see our beautiful country as much as possible across the distances. The pressure is more and less so here in a relatively short drive from the capital area and across to the Southland, so there is an infinite opportunity to allow tourists to enjoy our beautiful nationality in our beautiful northwestern district.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u54	A respectable president. I am hereby offering a proposal for a resolution of the Commission order to assess the situation and make proposals for the future of Iceland in regional, multinational cooperation. The General concluded to hide the minister of foreign affairs in agreement with the Generalist Commission to order a panel of experts who will be assigned to evaluate the state of Iceland in regional international cooperation where it will be evaluated to support the state of Iceland on a global scale. The committee evaluated, including how Iceland's interests in culture, politics, defense and economic interests are best paid in international cooperation. This issue was delivered last year, but for some reason it did not work out. Since the end of World War II, Iceland has been involved in many international cooperation. The aim has been to strengthen the state of the country in cultural, political, cultural, and economic and commercial communities. It is unmistakably that this multilingual cooperation has strengthened national sovereignty and has improved its economy. In the wake of World War II, Iceland was at a fork in the road. Then it became clear that the decision of the 1918 Treaty to maintain strict neutrality could not stand the changed world scene. However, there was a conflict of neutrality until the British occupation led the Icelanders to take sides with the nations next to them in the ideological sense. As a result, Iceland became a member of the Bretton Woods Convention on multinational currencies and subsequent members of the United Nations. Then Iceland became one of the founders of the Atlantic Community. Iceland members of the Council of Northern Ireland have been members of the general agreement on customs and trade since the end of the 1960's and are members of the WTO. At the beginning of the 1970's, Icelanders became European Free Trade Associations, and then a member of the European Union's internal market with the European Economic Area Convention at the beginning of the 1990's and involved in the Schengen Community work in 2001. All these steps were in their own way responding to the changed circumstances. They described how, under the circumstances of the day, it was considered wise to take refuge and secure the interests of the country in various international cooperations. All this cooperation has developed and changed over the years. In some cases, the political and economic importance of individual organisations has increased but decreased in others. The foreign political decisions that are behind these steps in the multinational activities of the era from the beginning of the Cold War to the end of the war. For the next three decades, no new step has been taken to the Seyngen Nation. It's the longest period in these substances during the republican season. The scene of the Cold War was relatively simple. Two powerful forces, led by the United States of West and by socialism under the Soviet Union, arose. Ideas were also discovered in two ways, with the ideals of democracy and free trade, while the ideal world of totalitarianism and socialism. After the Cold War ended, many felt that the world had become simpler. The democracy and internationalization would simply have been a triumph of socialism. Thus, the streets behind the fall of the Berlin Wall did not seem at first to be a basis for reevaluation of international cooperation. But the simple world scene that faced that turning point never came true. Thirty years later, we are still at a crossroads. The world scene is much more complicated than ever. The tugs are more and more ideologies are disintegrated. As you look at the pulls of the world scene, the United States is still on the front, but it is not based on the formation of alliances in the same way as before. The United States'cooperation with its allies is increasingly based on their own interests and, to a lesser extent, on common ideals and interests or solidarity with them. We see that this is changing -- I'm not saying that friends are becoming involved, between the United States and Europe, but this is a turning point. In the coming decades, China will likely be the international ruling point. Next, the rapidly growing European Union is much more effective than before, but it also faces internal problems. Finally, there is an increase in the value of the Arab world and the new market. The thought - provoking background of this changed world picture is also complex and far from as simple as in the Cold War. Europe's idealism can be said to be the product of Western democratic ideas of the Cold War. Chinese dictatorism is growing on the edge of the river. In Britain and the United States, concepts of free trade have shifted from international cooperation to two - side agreements, where the strong have the same strength. This is a dangerous development for smaller countries where it is generally thought that they will be protected from the rising power of larger countries within the context of international cooperation. Finally, there are the nationalities that come in different forms from one state to another, whether in Europe, Russia, or the United States. In addition, an increasing number of religious conflicts are taking place. These currents have also arrived in Iceland, and it is therefore urgent to map the situation and our interests with the objective of ensuring that Iceland's status in a multinational work will not be replaced as a change in internal politics. In the years of the Cold War, the regional climate of the United States was developed and remained virtually unchanged. The question is, Has not the world scene changed so much in recent years that it may be said that we are once again at a fork? Is that not a basis for reevaluating how to ensure the best political and economic interests in the future? In this regard, there are some factors: 1st When the currency collapsed and the banks fell in 2008, Iceland was found to have no shelter. The northern position was shaped by the position of others, such as the European Union and the International Cash Fund. Despite our involvement in internal markets, we were not a member of the European Union and therefore did not draw political strength there. Contrary to the experience of cold war years, the United States had read the words. The Atlantic Union was not the political sponsor it had to form in the codfish wars. This raises the question, Does Iceland not need to change in view of further political refuge? 2. In the decades that followed, China will be the world's ruler. Thus, Iceland, like other nations, has to communicate well with Chinese people. However, differences in ideologies create obvious dangers in this subject. It should be noted in the context of the Soviet Union's switch to the early part of the Cold War that it would not have been possible, without the political influence of the Soviet Union on Icelandic affairs, except by the political protection provided by the Atlantic Alliance. Over time, however, the political cover of European countries has increased from the Atlantic Union to the European Union. It is important to answer the question of whether a stronger or deeper multinational cooperation can strengthen Iceland's position in dealing with China and other powerful countries. We need to take a good look at this. 3. After Iceland adopted sustainable fishing management, economic changes are less economical than rooted in the fishing road. It is increasingly associated with the fluctuations of a small currency. Therefore, questions about seeking greater stability in the European currency union have been considered. In this regard, it can be noted that the Danish crown's connection with euro has been a key factor in the stability and prosperity of our cousins in the Faeroe Islands. It has also been noted that it is difficult to balance the wrongs we live with, for some are able to stand outside the placid economy, while others are limited to coins paid in international trades. This difference has led to an increase in property divisions. Iceland has been a party for international currency services, first for the Norwegian currency alliance and later for the Bretton Woods Community. Both periods were accompanied by good economic growth, innovation, and foreign investments. 4. The climate is now one of Iceland's main interests, both economic and security. There is no island nation and all results depend on international cooperation. The United States has advanced from one country to another in this area, but the European Union has achieved remarkable results. Then the United States has paralyzed the North Pole's work on climate change at the time of Iceland's leadership. The success of climates without international cooperation is considered unlikely. So it is important to look for answers to the question of how Iceland can best deal with climate in international cooperation. 5. In the world of international civilizations, international corporations have grown so fast that their efforts and influence threaten many national and national powers, great and small. The European Union has achieved beyond any international organisation in righting nationalities to global corporate conglomerates. These include: Consider how communication has been with Google, Apple, and other large enterprises that no one in the world can really be dealing with. 6th Because of their size, Iceland's international impact will always be limited. On the other hand, the Member States of the European Atlantic Alliance, the European Free Trade Association, and the Northern Council have shown that Iceland's effectiveness is greater when it sits at the table. In the European Union's internal market, we adopt European legislation, which is the dominant authority in all aspects of national development. It may be asked whether it would strengthen the political refuge of Europe and increase its impact if Iceland became a member of the European Union at the same level as an alliance. A respectable president. This is by no means a complete list of these factors. Also, it should be noted that every time, an overall assessment of the benefits against negative factors is necessary when considering a new step in international witnessing. But the point is that the question needs to be answered: Is the change in world image and the type of opinion mentioned here a basis for finding new ways to protect Iceland's interests and the political refuge necessary for the country, as are other nations? If you decide that the country's position is desirable in an international context, new steps need to be taken to see what are the most desirable qualities to meet the standards and challenges you face. Two roads appear to be open. One is mainly based on two-way cooperation and contracts. The rest is a continuation and a possible deepening of the worldwide work we are now in. The first option would lead to a closer relationship with Britain and the United States, following up the two - sided vacation agreements. They are at all times much weaker and more extensive than the legislation that shapes Europe's inner market. If a person chose to go this way by leaving the inner market like Britain, it would be a huge step that would lead to fundamental changes and a major disturbance in commercial and commercial life. The second advantage is to step aside from the increase in European Union without any impact, which can be said to be the internal market and the membership of the Schengen cohesion, to be fully involved with a seat at the table and the effect it produces. This would be less of a step than taken into the internal market by the European Economic Area Convention. By the end of the 1930's, Iceland found it difficult to choose between the two of us. That is why, despite the changes in world affairs, people wanted to keep everything unchanged. In fact, it was Britain's occupation that moved him to take a stand. Today, the change in world scene also shows a two - way choice. On the other hand, under the circumstances, there will be no extra pressure on such a choice, and most important, the government will take the initiative. However, there is evidence that this is just as unrealistic today as it would be not to choose a specific way to create Iceland's political shelter and to ensure its cultural and economic interests. Following two - way contracts by the British and the United States need not mean that we cannot communicate well with Europe. Similarly, full involvement in the European Union will not impose the benefits of the country in order to continue good relations with the British and the United States. The question is, Which path exceeds the overall objectives set out? In 2018, the General Assembly agreed to assign the Minister of Foreign Affairs to order a committee to assess the benefits of Iceland's involvement with the European Union's internal market, to evaluate the past. That was an important decision. That work was done under the sure leadership of former minister Björn Bjarnason. The results shed light on Iceland's extremely important interests. Transporters believe that it is urgent to examine and evaluate future challenges in the light of changing world images and a number of new projects that I have mentioned here, which Iceland will have to face in the coming years. It's not Iceland's interests that we do it on our own or through two-way contracts with a bigger state, which, in fact, controls where Iceland goes. Still, we have to map this thing, and we have to do it by large cooperation, trying to figure out where Iceland's interests are best paid. The course of restoration is clear. We want to complete the EU Memberal discussion. [[The president calls.]] But let us at least use the time, on account of a completely different world picture, and map out whether we should maintain the way that I think the government wants to do, go into two-sided contracts, or expand our cooperation in the field of international cooperation with other nations, with our friends peoples. That's what I think is going to be the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for fine talk, extensive, and in the chapters of a fine narrative. But there was one thing that caught my attention, and I just wanted to ask for it. A senator confirmed that I had heard it correctly, i.e. that the senator appreciates that it is less of a step today to become a valid member of the European Union from the position we are in now than it was at the time to become a member of the EEA Convention. It's just this, whether I understood this part of the speech correctly, that the senator appreciates it as a lesser step to become a legal member of the European Union from our present position than it was to become a member of the EEA agreement at its time. Because I know why. A senator will have a little time to answer an additional question: No. paritaprevir Does Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, as if the Greeks, for example, have been a source of great protection from the European Union under its economic hardships?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u56	A respectable president. I appreciate it that way, and that may be part of the need for us to map this, in the light of history, in view of the experience we have of the EEA, of this good experience - this was an extremely important step, a vision of the times -- that once we've become a member of the internal market, it's actually less of a step to become a full party. Of course, this large problem is linked to agriculture and fishing roads, but we see this to make possible the development of Finnish farmers, who had some scraps out of their membership and entry into the European Union, now seeing their interests in the European Union better. I believe there is a chance for farmers to join the European Union. In terms of the seafront, it is quite clear that, based on the European Union rules and standards, we will have control over our resources and follow the rules in the European Union, i.e. that we control it on the basis of the relative stability of what's being caught here and who's fishing here, and there's no hunting experience other than Icelanders in recent years. However, this could naturally be revealed by the completion and completion of the negotiations and by allowing the nation to choose. I think it's very important. The people were allowed to vote for Icezave, et cetera, and they were allowed to choose. The people were given information. I think it's exactly the same thing if they complete the Memberal negotiations that the European Union will be informed, that they will see what is available. This is not to say that all covenants with the European Union are only ◯pyr/paste, anyway. And speaking of Greece, it's a very homey problem. We all know that the Greeks, up to this point, lied into the euro and that the government has to deal with it. It takes time. This has been difficult, but has been in cooperation with the European Union and the World Cash Fund. But I believe the Greeks will come out of the crisis, just like the Irish. The Irish are far more like us, and Luxembourg is 400,000; the Maltese are 400,000; and things are doing brilliantly. We should look to small countries in the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. First, of course, it is that the standard for relative stability in the marine situation is as variable as many of the rest of the European work. In it alone, I don't experience much firmness or composure. But I wanted to use my later answer to ask a very specific question. Let's talk about it. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Gunnarsdóttir's Katrín, who seemed to me to be like a hot cat, and not to say what I think she thinks, that she wants to join the European Union just as it is. Hv. A senator made it clear that she did not take the extra emphasis on two - sided agreements from today's sources. Toward the end of the talk, she found that she saw the need for such cooperation and completion of her parting talks. But it is one of the good things about the European Union's communicators that they speak quite clearly in these matters, that adaptation negotiations are going to work out of it primarily - of course, there are no two adaptation agreements like - how to adapt to the European Union's regulations. I just want to ask you this question: "Do you want one? paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir that Iceland is walking in the European Union as it is now?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u58	A respectable president. That is exactly what this proposal is all about, to draw out the interests of two-way contracts, which, in my opinion, will not give Iceland what is needed, we will just be under British and Americans, or go into international cooperation and international shelter. I was trying to make it clear that whatever steps we Icelanders and I have taken, and I have been filled with participants with seat at the table has been of benefit to us. There were members of the 14th class who beat this house in 1949 who didn't want Iceland to go to NATO. We were convinced that it was the right step. It was a right step, though we were an armyless nation, even though we were a small nation, having a seat at the table, that it meant something to have a seat at the table. The same thing was true with EFTA, and it actually meant being a member of the EFTA nations, except Switzerland, to the European Economic Area. So: Yes, history shows, this economy and this prosperity, and that Iceland, when it comes to various factors, has brought us a better community. But we're at a crossroads, and that's what I'm drawing out. This government, and the expected Central Party does not want to touch this case at all. They can't be discussed. There is no initiative to map which way to go. We feel that it is right to complete the Memberal talks and become a full member. It's not just economicly right, it's not just culturally right. Shall we talk about human rights? Should we talk about the big movie, about the freedom of being a small state that is better guaranteed in the struggle with the big giants, whether it's a bigger state or a big international company? Yes, so completely unchanged, considering everything, I believe that we should complete the terms of the Member State's negotiations and allow the nation to vote for the European Union. It is the policy of restoration to the European Union in case of an unexpected central category. This is, naturally, the wonderful thing about this, a respectable president, that we talk too little about foreign affairs, about this princely affair. Therefore, I especially rejoice that we will soon have a discussion on this subject. Clearly, the principle must come from us at the restoration.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u59	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen on timelines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u60	Mr. President. I'm here offering a proposal for an interpretation of the carbon label on carnivores and horticulture products for human consumption. Transporters, along with the people here, are a reason. Councilmen Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Bergþór Páll, Elvar Eyvindsson, Gunnar Sæmundsson Sveinsson, Þorsteinn Gauti Hjaltason, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigurdrúnsson The suggestion reads: ▪ The General concluded to hide a marine economist and agri-gri-gri-gri-gri-gricultures from more clearly adopted sources of meat products. information on the transport of the particular product, as well as the food supply, is provided. Secretary will explain the situation to the General by the end of April 2020. Now it is so, Mr. President, that this date may be fully appreciated. I suppose the committee that gets the case may have a little more time. The proposed report shows the following: The proposal was previously submitted to a 149th legislature and is now brought back with some adjustments in view of the comments on the subject. In October 2018, a United Nations International Commission report on climate change was published that sheds light on the great challenges mankind faces on climate issues. It shows that climate change needs immediate action to prevent the average global temperature rise to more than 1.5 °C, with tragic consequences to the environment. Clearly, then, all kingdoms need to respond with power and urgency. The Environment and Resource Minister has proposed a work programme on climates totaling 2018/2030, but its aim is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and contribute to improved carbon binding so that Iceland can live up to the objective of the Paris Convention to 2030 and the government's objective of noncarbonization in the year 2040. The course is ambitious, but it can be better if effective and must be considered at all costs in reducing the level of carbon dioxide. Carnivores are brought here from all over the world, with environmental impact. Clearly, the amount of carbon that has been transported, e.g. New Zealand is much bigger than the meat that has been taken to a camp from manufacturers within the country. In recent years consumers' demand for large increases in product information, e.g. the contents of the product and its origin. Transporters believe that consumers need information about the product's carbon cycle, i.e. the climate impacts of production and transport in the relevant product have been high. In this way, an consumer can make an informed decision and then choose a environmental option. Transporters point out that one of the measures taken by the Danish government in climate matters is to initiate a conscious awakening among people on the effects of food production in climate. This means that food will be marked with stickers showing the effect of the product on the climate. In Sweden, registration companies in cooperation with the Swedish Farmers have created a food label system that shows how the production has affected climate. So many words, Mr. President. Do I suggest that this beacon be referred to? Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u61	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you again for this council resolution, but it took place in 149th Congress, as mentioned earlier. There were reviews when the proposal was submitted and changed a little, e.g. Adding to horticultural products, and also specifying this to include Based on the transport of the product, information on carbon spores is available. It's important that it does just right, because if there were only information on the carbon tracks, it would be naturally misleading. Very important two characters, including I wanted to learn a little about the rumors that came along and called attention to certain angles in the imported product and Icelandic production. It came, for example. On the radio this morning, which was referred to as carbon footprints due to transport being different depending on the product being imported, its shelf life and its like, but it could be in the range of 1,95% of carbonospors, i.e. The move yourself would not be an enormous piece of interest when you look at it that way. They can remember whether he is flying or he has a ship, etc. In view of that, I don't quite see, except for the horticultural products, considering the last statements, what else it was that influenced the change in the proposal now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u62	Thank you. paritaprevir The question asked by Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson. It came, e.g. Notes from the consumer organizations and, as shown in the report that follows, these suggestions include, for us to stick to the acronym, that consumers can make an informed decision and choose according to their own vision, if you can say so. The Senator began to wonder about the percentages I couldn't quite figure out where and who came from, but the result was that he suggested that people were getting to the impression that the move per se was not as much of the case as some might think. But that is why it stands here that, in fact, the senator is still a very large part. In fact, it is obvious that, whether by flight or by ship, the newborn lamb learned from Húsavík, at any distance, has a shorter transport track. In addition, the Icelandic agriculture now, along with the whole nation, is looking forward to a future energy exchange that will change these percentages. You see, there is a tremendous opportunity for agriculture in the energy exchange. Throughout history, Icelandic agriculture has referred to the use of so much oil, etc., but it sees on the same occasions as the others. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u63	A respectable president. I see even more opportunities in the future for carnivores, if I may mention it. But there are two other questions I'd like to ask. Transporter through. On the one hand, he discussed food marking systems, and I wondered if it could be added to recycling, since the groceries are usually placed in some form of packaging that also has certain carbon tracks and recycling tracks, i.e. This would be a marker system for carbon tracks and recycling, since it is often not completely obvious how to recycle the dressings that follow, for example. with groceries. The other is that a carrier suggested that the case be taken lightly. The job committee, but the last time it was submitted, went to the Environment and Transport Committee, and if I don't remember it, even visitors came and there were some very interesting comments that came out there. I'm pretty much reminded that I listened to them, I say this from memory, but I'm pretty sure the case went there. I wondered if the case would fit in on the environment and transport committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u64	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speculations and questions. For food recycling, the natural issue that we as a community are dealing with is what we're dealing with. Perhaps the senator had a plastic wrapping in mind. It is in itself, I think, not the main thing in a plastic wrapper or a general package of food and recycling possibilities for them, whether we buy food in a plastic wrapper or other package or carry the packaging to pack food in this country, most likely in the same plastic factory or plastic manufacturers. On the other hand, I would like to mention in this relationship, although the senator's not exactly involved, that now I understand that the European Union is simply putting a considerable amount of money on to encourage an increase in meat intake, which I find interesting in this context. Again with the recycling process and, yes, what brings up the subject: I think it'd be fun, huh? A senator, and it's interesting to get a professional health committee to look into the matter now. So there have been slight changes, as the senator agreed, we also make. Today, gardeners present the example, which was not the last one. However, the recycling challenge is present whether or not the products are packed here or elsewhere. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u65	The president believes that the last time this part of the program was discussed, it went to the trade committee for a release.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u66	Madam President. In itself, I have just one simple question, which is why it is merely suggested that a carbon track of transport be marked. Hv. While members of the council came to the fore only in their previous answers, I felt that this was not quite clear. It would be nice to hear the stand taken by the senator and the chairman of this fine case to see whether it would be unwise to mark the overall levels of the product's carbon dioxide, although it could certainly be dissociated by individual factors, from the origin of emissions. Why is this meaning unique to carbon tracks because of transport and not the overall process of product production?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for the question. The proposal says: ▪ The General concluded to hide a marine economist and agri-gri-gri-gri-gri-gricultures from more clearly adopted sources of meat products. If information on carbon tracks is presented due to transport is So the answer to the question is: It is not entirely suggested. The other question asked by the senator, why not seek more information, and if it is not wise to do so: Yes, I think it would be wise to do so, even though this council decision does not reach that point. I think the whole thing will get better progress if it's taken in a more manageable step. And I'm not afraid of anything, so it's just going to be here on this platform because of our discussion and the verbal exchange of our Björn Leví Gunnarsson before, in a country full of pure energy for a long time, that it will also not be a favorable comparison for the Icelandic farming when the energy exchange has been accomplished in more than just electric cars and electric bikes and other such things that may have reached the greatest flight in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u68	President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think it's very important to watch all of this chain of value, and we need to face every opportunity to reduce emissions, not just when it comes to transport. It's nice to remember that the largest part of agricultural emissions, and it's nothing more than Iceland, that's true everywhere in the world, is land use and water use, and surely energy use to some extent according to the way it is done in each manufacturing land for itself. It has been suggested that the transport alone is so complete, a carbon track due to transport of individual products, approximately 4% of the product's total carbon level. Not only are agricultural products but there are many other factors. The level of carbon in which they look at all the value of production is far higher at the level of production of the product than at the transport level. As a result, the importance of transport has sometimes been minimized. In the case of beef, it has been identified that the transport is probably less than 1% of total carbon emissions per kilogram produced and transported. Therefore, I think it is important for us here and in all parts of the world when we discuss action against the climate that we watch the overall chain and total carbon emissions from the product and inform consumers of the options they have to reduce emissions, as well as to let us inform the manufacturers themselves or make more aware of what measures could be taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u69	Mr. President. I just agree with what. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson. I think there's good reason to examine the entire chain of value. Maybe I was just too modest. A senator. Perhaps our proposal is reasonable, but we are willing to bring more. [[Up front.]] And because I know that the senator is interested in the matter, I prefer to assume that this proposal, although the senator would have liked it more extensive, rather received from the senator, and according to committee events. In fact, the percentage gymnasium in this is quite complex, and especially when the senator withdrew from e.g. Bovine farming, and the percentage exercise between the articles; cattle farms, sheep farms, poultry farms, other cage animals, etc., and then these also include natural agricultural products. That's why I'm repeating what I said before. Víglundsson ÞorsteinnI think it's possible now by a relatively short notice, to improve, to be more information to consumers, and a good first step on the road that I think we can both think of going. Although we may not have always been able to think of traveling together.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u70	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to extend this case much, I'm just going to follow some of my hunches in the matter of this synopsis that has now been shown in a rather good discussion and objections. People are interested in this matter of carbon label, and it even came. the question of whether there could have been more involved. But the answers given were very good. paritaprevir The morning Þorgrímur of Sigmundsson's son that he had appreciated it as well as the workers in this case, and the one standing here is also one of the carriers, that it would be more likely to make this more specific and relatively simple. What I would like to add in the discussion on these matters is that we Icelanders can be self-sustained in food production at home, to the point of being able to feed ourselves on our own production of food, including Because Icelandic food is natural products, but not least in my mind now because of security issues. We'd be self-sustaining about food production, including... Because of climate and also because of something that could happen in nature that would make it difficult for us to find ourselves living abroad, some natural disaster, war, or something, and there would be a situation where we would have to spend enough time with food production, which I have full faith that we can already do. A discussion of such markings also points to my mind to encourage farmers, both in meat production and in vegetable production, to sell directly from farms including where the origin of the product can be seen. Then many things come to mind, such as permission for home-rolling, and many of the things I feel are very much at peace with political parties. We need to open our eyes to the possibility of slaughtering at home so that all laws and regulations will be met. It's been like this because it's the induction of a European principle, that we're a little more Catholic than the Pope in applying all the regulations in it and then we'll be aware of when we go abroad that it's not so closely followed as we do. It's actually another matter, but I'm celebrating this proposal, and I hope she'll have a good discussion on the committee and get reviews, so I'm not going to keep this case for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u71	Madam President. I wanted to come into this discussion about the carbon label on carnivores and horticultures for human consumption. I think it's a good thing. We looked now, when I was looking up what had been written and done in these cases, I fell into a news story on the RUS about Climathon, i.e. A climate marathon, held in 2018 in 110 cities around the world and here in Reykjavík. There was a three - part challenge in which we considered how tourism could become more sustainable and sustainable, how the treatment and use of food in Reykjavík might become more sustainable and then recycling and renewal. This was held at Matis headquarters. There was a group who received an award, but his idea went out to introduce the consumer of the carbon tracks of the product right on the shelf of the store. It may be a little bit of what this matter is all about, that when we buy something, we see the contents of the product, its origin, and so on. It's a carbon track. I've heard nothing more about how this project has developed, but they had ideas of making algorithms and a receipt would be made at the nearest price of the carbon tracks. It was interesting to me, because they expected to get this system into use as soon as possible, or at least in the months ahead. In view of this discussion, I will come by looking at what has happened to this pleasant project. I don't mean to talk much about this, but I agree that we need to be self-sustained on food production, no matter what. Truly, we can face the fact that our land is closing off, and then it can matter as easily as possible. A senator mentioned earlier. What I think we need to look at, and my partner, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, has written about and is found in an article on the core and I agree, is that we cannot just look at financial gains when we think of things that are turning around. production and distribution within the country. This needs to be linked to regional policy. For the past few years, we may have been a bit involved in mixing companies and creating large and large productions in place of increasing and distributing companies so that, in general, we can buy groceries by weight and in good and eco-friendly packages. We have the smallest level of carbon, like whatnot. A manager named here, if we buy the product that is next to the one producing it. We are also expected to reduce food waste if we can buy what is right for us, but not necessarily in larger packages or something that has been transferred from country to country, if necessary. Then we will contribute to this self-sustaining spirit that we are eager to witness. Of course, we know all of this environmental awareness that has, fortunately, woke up in the country, and we need it when we shop for food. At the same time, this discussion will tell us where the product comes from. We were here earlier today to discuss the suggestion of the origination term from Palestine as a whole. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadótir is the first carrier to do, and this is something I think a lot of people are aware of and willing to choose when they buy a product, whether it's from a carbon track or from a source or whatever it is now under it. It can also be said that if we were to make a requirement for the original markings of the lips and I fell, for example. I'm thinking chicken. There are a number of producers in Iceland who would like to have a picture of the manufacturer's package, from which farm it comes, etc. I think it all matters, and I think that it would also be up to producers to create even better products, as well as create innovations, create something that will make you choose that product rather than anyone else, when you know where it comes from. I just say for myself that when you taste the trick and you find some producer, straight from the farm or whatever that is, that makes good products, I'll have at least with a tendency to retrievate and choose rather than to buy something wrapped in a store that is often just minimal information. It is not always that the product is as well marked as you would like it to be. Our producers in meat production, e.g. or fish production really means what it does, but I think it might be better. One of my associates has now encouraged the loss of prices, even though I cannot quite imagine it, just how much of the price is from the teem, because it is often said that farmers will receive their product, the middle person will be laying down, whether it is a collective sale or a store, and then what goes to the State. It would be interesting to see these things on the product. Food policy is being built, which is now being read, the draft, the course is smart in itself unless it is in lecture. I hope we'll see it soon, because we have to think about this, e.g. The self-sustaining criteria we so much want to talk about. Should the process be taken into account from beginning to end? Is that what we're talking about, from the source to the consumer? What do we mean by sustainable products? How do we want to see this course? This is one of the things we need to think about. Or whether we just want what we might be wondering about in this suggestion, even though it may have been presented in a case. An authority says that the emphasis is on the carbon line, but other things are certainly being discussed too. But as I said earlier, I feel that when we think about this and the parameters we use them, not only should we look at it financially, neither for the consumer, nor for the manufacturer, but we should watch ecoves. The future, or present, tells us that we need to look at ecology. The climate is such that we cannot allow ourselves to be left in second place. We need to take them and put them at the front. But because we can't produce everything, and we want to have a variety of products and therefore always move something in, I can't see it differently - if we look at our production and when we can add and expand and do better with regard to these objects - we can arrange import in another way, for example, in long distances, whether it's from the south or what it is now. We are not necessarily importing goods at the time of the year that we should be able to produce at home more than more. Of course, the consumer wants to buy good products, but he also wants a fair price, and then we need to look into it, and I would like to see the environmental effects of the product in the store, and we'll take into account the climate crisis we are facing rather than just prices. We know that competition alone does not guarantee good products, sustainable and eco-friendly, or whether they are less or more carbon tracks. There are other things underneath, especially in the light of the rising temperatures and the climate that we face. I like the thinking of this matter, and I hope that we have good luck, whether this case is approved or not, to follow that way in the sense of food.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u72	Madam President. I'm not going to have much of a case about this proposal, because it's to do simple and it's been moved here before. The suggestion reads: In view of the impact on open market competition, the General concluded that a full assessment of national legislation and regulations would be conducted by the prime minister. At work, they'll be looking for cooperation with the Economic and Development Organization. It must be allowed to divide the assessment to a point but should be fully completed before the end of 2020. The proposal was previously made at a 149th legion and is now submitted unchanged. It should be noted that already the current assessment is made by the Ministry of Employment for travel and construction services, if I remember correctly, and it is very positive to see the government take these steps. But here it is suggested that the whole system be adjusted with regard to these goals. Many countries have done this. Australians feel strongly about this area, have made a steady evaluation of their regulations in order to eliminate the competitive barriers, and feel that they can trace at least two weeks ago. In this period alone, growth growth rate of 0.5◯1% per year for these activities alone, i.e. to have increased market competition at home. Sadly, in this country, however, it is often as if competition is an eye - eyed attitude. We have special contributions from competitive law at such times, e.g. Agricultural products It's often debated by competitiveness, and it's certainly true that we're small markets and with the characteristics of few competitions in many markets and services in this country. However, it is as it is, and it is shown in a paper with this resolution, that the basic difference between the prices of the products of active competition in this country and the products of monopolication or pure responsion from competition. It'll even come. Just up to picture 3 in the report, showing the prices of several products from 1997 over a very long period of time, the average increase in these products per year. That's where even the two of them come from. until the introduction of clothing and shoes in uninterrupted competition and telephone service, which, in fact, was released from competitive behavior during this period, have increased the longest in this reference period, typically by less than 1% per year at the same time as in service groups such as the same. The mail or mail services that have been extended in the longest part of this period have been dependent on official or private rights, and the driving of a cab vehicle has increased significantly more or more in the average number of 67% per year, and the cumulative increase over this long reference period, over a period of 20 years, is, for example, over 20 years. in the case of post-mail services, and then not being the last ups included, more than 30% increase in more than two decades at the same time as telephone service has increased slightly over this total period. It is evident that the success of competition in this country is as true as it is elsewhere, and the benefits to consumers are, of course, what ultimately matters most. I think we have many opportunities to promote a competitive market and eliminate unnecessary competitiveness. Often, new enterprises are being put in the street by unnecessary regulations, making it overly complicated to start or operate on the relevant markets. There's been talk of the power market here. During our long discussion last spring, there was also Note that the competitive environment of this market is still far from perfect and might be done to correct it. Therefore, I believe that the proposal would bring great benefits to the government and that this would result in a review of law and order. I certainly hope that this proposal will have a sound basis for the council and the committee to address it. I hope that she will be present for a second discussion as spring approaches. I'm not gonna have any more of those words, I'm just looking forward to dealing with the discussion here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for history. The text of the Parliamentary decree says, with the permission of the president: ▪ The General concluded to hide prime minister to have a comprehensive assessment of national legislation and regulations, taking into account the impact of open competition. This sounds quite fine, but we in the Central Party have cast off a project in our own house that we have been responding to which we have called away the Scorpio. The activities of the tourism and construction markets - I understood it that way, I may be less reminded, that there was an assessment of the rule of order to simplify it, that would not be a special focus on the competitive part per se. So I would like to direct that question to why. The senator's whether it's the competitive thing the senator sees the core point of this or the simple rule, which, in effect, can be hung on the hat, then put away, as it were. The Senator came into it in his speech, technical refinements, and so forth, but I would like to hear from the senator whether he appreciates the more important competition. Then, at least, it seems to me that it may only narrow down the markets involved in this matter or that it is such a universal means of simplifying the principle and reducing the booth, as we call it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u74	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. The short answer is: I'll equal it completely, i.e. Get out of here and take out the competition, that's just the same thing. It is far more convenient for the existing companies to work in a complex environment than for new companies who do not know the rules of the public. It is far easier for a bigger company to deal with complicated regulations and large booths, companies that can have lawyers on their own side, than for small procrastinators to get into such markets at high cost. It is entirely in the hands of simplifying the principle of simplicity for the sake of, just to make companies and the public more comfortable to behave in the relevant markets, and at the same time stimulate competition. All studies in this field show that complex, sophisticated regulations are most useful to large companies on surface, as it were, on the market. Therefore, it helps new companies to build fields and compete but at the same time reduces the cost of business and simplifyes the activities that already work. It's a fine thing, for example. The building market, where we see that the main reluctance is how long it takes to get a building permit, to complete planning and other activities that are costly and much more difficult for a small, and perhaps often an unfunded company than a ragged and moneyy company, so it stays entirely in the hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u75	V.E.G. President. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of protection and preservation of ships and boats. Besides me, the movers are still on the case. Councilmen Árnadóttir Kolbrún Árnadótir, Bergþór Ólason, Elvar Eyvindsson, Gunnar Sæmundsson Sveinsson, Þorsteinn Gauti Einar Hjaltason, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, Þólmundsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándótir, and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnústir. This is how the interpretation motion reads: ▪ The General concludes to hide the Minister of Education and Culture to order a team of workers to determine how to protect and preserve ships and boats and to make adjustments. The service group combines, including An overview of ships and boats of cultural and professional value, regardless of age, and a review of the dates of ships and boats under cultural law, No. 80/2012. The task force has its members representing members of a member body that performs the protection of ships and boats, representatives from the branches of the sea road, representatives of the local departments, and representatives of the Ministry of Education and Culture, the National Museum of Iceland and the Minjah Institute for Iceland. The staff will also be assigned to find financial or financial means to the project and against the rules for handling the budget. The staff will submit their assessment and proposals for education and cultural ministers within one year from the approved proposal. After that, the secretary introduces the results of the group's work to the General. According to one report, on May 9, 2000, the Allied Council approved the resolution of No. 18/125, on the preservation of boats and ships. In this arrangement, the government is commissioned to prepare proposals for the preservation of old ships and boats, much less important for employment and community history, as well as to shape funding regulations and define the maintenance of boats and ships. The Ministry of Education was entrusted with the implementation of the resolution on behalf of the government. In the discussion, we'll ask the question, "Where are you?" paritaprevir Kolbrún's Halldórsdóttir's work on preparing the plans for the preservation of old ships and boats with cultural value, in line with the conclusion of the Council's resolution on May 9, 2000, stated that a committee has been appointed to offer its suggestions in a 2002 memo. Then it was also noted that the proposals were for a special examination of a minister and that national law should be reviewed, No. 107/2001. Law on Cultures, No. 80/2012, even solved. By the laws of the Peoples. The main purpose of the law is to contribute to the protection of cultural memory and to enhance the effectiveness of a national monument. According to Article 3. The law counts as ships and boats for relics, i.e. free memory, with the ages of ships and boats set for relics by 1950. Then archaeological remains of any kind on land, on earth, on the glacier, on the sea, or on water that humans have done, or on which they are 100 years of age and older, such as boat farms, compare with the 3 mg. Section 3. The law, or the ship's sheets, sir. I-communicate the same set. On the other hand, building materials include houses and other structures and the individual components of those with cultural, scientific, or artistic value, such as pars. The law. Many ships and boats have been built here. It is important to maintain knowledge of old boats and ships. Furthermore, it has educational value. Thus, an old ship can be used to train young ones and to use a ship for teaching. At that time, a number of organizations and interested persons have taken part in maintaining ships and boats and can be assumed that without their assistance, ships and boats, which are culturally valuables and the inheritance of crafts, had been destroyed. According to the movers, it is important to give support to this organization. Therefore, the purpose of this recommendation is to evaluate the protection and preservation of ships and boats, including in view of cultural laws, as well as a summary of ships and boats considered to have cultural and professional values, regardless of age, in order to get a complete picture of the situation. At the same time, the task force is expected to make some adjustments. It is important that the task force considers whether there is a basis for protecting ships and boats with security values that will be comparable to the protection of buildings. At the same time, the task force considered whether the range from date to date, as noted at 2 mg. Section 3. the law of culture, and instead of age, shall be rather a matter of age. V.E.G. President. It quotes the dates of ships and boats as shown in the report I read from, and it was based on the 1950's. Some would say that at that time this was a mistake and that it is more appropriate to aim for boats and ships 50 years of age and older to get this stamp than to be replaced by the year 1950. There is another thing I would like to make, that such old boats and ships built up have permission to sail. It is known in the countries around us and elsewhere that ships and boats, which are designed to sail, are limited, the safety features or what are called marine cards at home, are based on the criteria at their time, that there are no demands on all the requirements for today's safety. That would mean that we are not talking about sailing in the sea or anything like that. Although it is that such old ships have sailed from country to country, they have the exception of the design and safety features of the ship today and from the time of its use. It has to be said that in my mind and in many others, ships and boats have not been given the support needed by governments to be shown by our money of culture in ships and boats. Our existence in Iceland is because men and women came here on ships and boats at one time. As a result, I feel that we are under obligation to do this, showing respect for it far more than we have done in the past few years and decades. Houses and apartments are treated with great respect, and I'm not going to talk it down, it's very respectable. I feel that ships and boats need government support just as much. Similarly, many bad decisions have been made regarding the preservation of vessels that have been preserved, especially wooden ships, have been taken onto land, where they have been destroyed because boats are built to remain on water, and they feel much better on water than on dry land. That's how you work, for example. Our neighbors and cousins in the Faeroe Islands, Denmark, and Norway maintain old ships by floundering them. We've seen the fine structure of old boats that have been able to earn money, and then I can think of the whales, many of whom are old wooden boats. They have been shown a great deal by renovating them, but they also earn money and these companies do many pretty good. It was also mentioned in the report earlier that young people can be taught seawork on such old ships and that they can also make some kind of money or at least purpose. That's how you could count it for a long time. I'd like to mention the watchship Odin, who was saved a few years ago. It had been discussed with a ship from the country, even in scrap metal, which was then established as an association group around the Óðinn who could not imagine that this remarkable ship, along with all the ships that had been in charge of the Landland Guard, would be sold out of the country. This organization that was put around it caused the ship to be rescued and thus be shown. I could do much better on these matters, and then I think of the shipping rights or the armchair cards, that Óðinn could sail on days or in some other business on the shores of the country, in view of the rules that were valid when Óðinn was in work in the past. In many parts of the country, members of an organization that has been established around the preservation of old boats and ships are dealing with frames to draw in terms of their lack of money. I know they're keeping a close eye on how this case is going to develop at the council. I have high hopes for the future of this matter. It has been tried, but it has not been tried, in that it is successfully supported by the government to show honor to those in these ships and to offer the honor they deserve.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u76	A respectable president. I thank you for your fine speech and for putting up this matter. That is an urgent reason to maintain this practice. Many prominent members of Congress have suggested that ships and boats be more honorable, but unfortunately, they have not always been able to do so. I mention in this relationship men like former sea chief Jón Bjarnason, former senator Jóhann Ársælsson, and, like a dog. A senator named Kolbrún Halldórsdóttir's daughter. More have contributed to this issue over the years, but unfortunately, it has not always been completed as suggested. I think it's very important for public members to cooperate with e.g. The private people gather for the preservation and maintenance of old ships and boats, thus holding on to important elements in our national professional history. Unfortunately, we've been pulling our feet too long and there's a chance that many historical ships will be destroyed and there will be no more. We heard the news last year that the Council of the Akérin shop requested permission from the Minjaus Institute to dispose of the cowter Sigllar, who has been standing by the Görbourn Museum in Akrelini for decades. The ship was built in 1885 in England and purchased to Iceland in the first place in 1897. The town council spoke that it had been investigated sufficiently so that it could be discarded but before it could be discarded. Like what? A member of the congregation mentioned in his talk puts it at risk of being destroyed by ships stored on land. They are meant to be in the sea, thus stored best. In the days of the day, the boat Cylinder sank in the Western Islands, which may have been largely at the docks for ornamental purposes. He sank in the bad weather that was here for the weekend. That boat was built in the West of 1947, and it sank in the harbor, and I don't know what will happen to his future. As mentioned, when these old boats can be built up and can be used as an example, it is best for the first person in this matter to be used by an executive speaker. in a whale view, which has been successfully done in the north and south. That's the best part. I would like to call attention to the rescue ship Mary Juliet, who is now in the port of Isafjörður. Mary Juliet is a remarkable ship with a remarkable story, but unfortunately, she has not had enough money to keep her up and show her honor as her remarkable history deserves, thus holding to our culture. The rescue ship Mary Juliet will be 70 this year, and ships and boats from the 1950's are included as relics and enjoy peace unless there is a choice at the Minja Institute. In recent years, the Western Library has been fighting to preserve the ship and, after its arrival, replaced by the museum with Gunni and María Júlía who has accepted strength from coming into the arms of these museums first to Hnundi and then to the graffiti on the West of 2003. Its beginning is that in the summer, the owners of the ship, Thorsberg, arrived at the end of the series, a purchase offer from South Africa. When it spread out to the congregations, a decision was made to unite and to try to enter it with some form of offer, making sure that the ship would not leave the country, including a ship with great and unique historical value, in the opinion of both of these collections. With the help of senators from the district of those days, to the owners of the ship, the museums received public assistance to accept the offer, but since then they may not have followed what had to be done and are very sorry. I'd also like to mention in this matter a former senator, Jóhann Ársælsson, a factory for Ak Aranei, and a former Westland senator who was one of the most active fighters for the protection of boats while he lived at the council. He, along with five other members of the Parliament, gave a bill on the Marine Fund for Development, that he would have the added role of providing museums and seahouses for the preservation of ships and boats. This proposal was adopted by a 49 joint vote at the General Assembly. But it did not work out, the fund of evolution was laid down, and then it fell into place, and nothing happened in that regard. A former ocean leader, as I mentioned earlier, Jón Bjarnason, suggested that there be again some attempts to preserve these ships, and in 2012 proposed a judicial resolution to the Council. He was one of the traveling workers with Jóhann Ársælsson of his day who suggested that the lack of survival from the seabed would be tried. It has been observed by the Icelandic Sea Museum that there are 190 boats that fit in with the definition of age. Unfortunately, the protection of boats and ships is negligible compared to the need for investments in their preservations and we do not have the boat peace fund, but it has long been a business partner of the European Marine Museums. But who knows what will happen now that this matter is raised again and for good reason? It has been observed that from 2013 onward to 2019 C.E., there have been some 13.5 million donations, but, at the same time, the building fund has provided funding for projects related to the preservation of houses and churches to the amount of 1.4 billion dollars, so there's a big difference. I believe we have to do better and show the nation's professional history the respect they deserve, but without the construction of the fleet through the years, from riverboats, from six exorcists, in modern fleets today, in large ships as well as smaller boats, we would not be at all as economicly as we are today. I have called attention to the status of the former rescue ship Mary Juliet in this regard, whose history may be extended to other ships and boats of cultural and historical value, and it is important that we show proper respect and funds for their preservation. We really need to spit at our hands. I support the whole mind of the council arrangement that lies here, and I am one of her couriers. I just want to thank Páll Jónsson for his leadership in this case. I believe that there are much better ways to do so, and I think it is very important that you are looking forward to using boats and ships that are designed to be possibly rented on the appropriate ship for education, education, culture, and tourism. All of this supports the fact that we can look forward to preserving ships and boats of historic value in our culture and professional history.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-18-60.u77	Madam President. I recommend a proposal for a interpretation of art school for children and adolescents. Transporters, in addition to me, Elíasdóttir Furfjörður Furfjörður Elisdóttir, Arna Lára Jónsdóttir, Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, Andri Thorsson, Guðmundur Eymarsótir, Guðmur, Hódra Mogensen, Vala Helgadóttir, Harðardóttir G. Hardardótir and Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir. The suggestion reads: ▪ The General concludes to hide the Minister of Education and Culture to start working on a bill to set up an art program for children and adolescents with the goal of increasing the way of a list of sights in Iceland. The bill will be submitted to the current legislature. At the bill, the arrangements for study of music will be taken into account. Then perhaps it would be good to mention what specific music studies have done in Iceland. It is enough to mention the tremendous success Hildur the Guðnadóttir's family in recent years, and it may not have been her situation if she herself had not been well - educated in music and, of course, was raised by parents who did so too. Art, like music, has value in itself but is also an important mirror in our time. Then an art school is based on many other articles of sight that are of great importance to society. These include video games, graphic design, architecture, industrial design, photography, clothing design, and filmmaking. For these articles, it can be said that arts play the same role as research at and out of college have been used by more traditional fields of employment. Modern - day articles have already become part of the nation's basic worksheets. Today it is estimated that some 20,000 people are engaged in creative work. There is a similar number of people working on agriculture and fishing supplies combined, and about half of them. The number of people working in a travel service that is one of the largest sectors in the country. In fact, tourists are called culture and art as one of their main reasons for coming to the land next to nature. Thus, the list helps with other employment issues too. I feel that in the near future, when we look at automation and artificial intelligence, it is said that more than half of the traditional work will be accomplished without the direct touch of man. Especially are articles requiring creativity and initiative that will remain behind us. Even if it were only for this reason, the growth of creative articles is very important. It is vital to be effective in teaching children and young people, and as I said before, we can best see the best way in Iceland's thriving music life what practical teaching can do in this regard. Sadly, children's art classes are not as effective as the study of music. That's why I'd like to focus on it only with this bill. In fact, it is under the heel whether it is offered to an acceptable degree, depending on each school. Visual art, as I mentioned earlier, is an enormously important and growing part of our economy. In support of this, it is enough to mention the economic effect of these articles on the research of Ágúst Einar Einar Einarsson, a former senator. I'd also like to mention that because of random contributions and in many places no supply at arts for children and teenagers, apart from the traditional school system, Icelandic youths often get a lot worse prepared for such studies at college and college than would be desirable. In addition, in the research of the Ministry of Education and Culture, since March 2017, it is reported that there is a significant discrepancies in the way schools reserve educational minutes for art and engineering work as well as that some schools don't waste any time in 8,◯10. A class of art and engineering classes. Me and the Icelanders have been much of the world's greatest product nation, and they certainly reached the cliff barriers because of natural resources. Thus, we are a little accustomed to thinking that their best use is one of our most reliable guarantees of future happiness. Of course, this is a matter of many challenges. We need to be constantly alert to overuse, and we also know that nature can be overwhelming, that the weather can be distressing, and that fish stocks can change, and that we can't get along. And then our natural ideas about desirable relationships with nature change, so I think we need to start looking back at the nation's sector in order to improve the support and increase the number of them, as well as to increase innovation and knowledge industry at the cost of primary production. There is no contradiction in this because creative articles can also promote the development of traditional branches, and we see it very well in the technological development of sea plants where intelligence has provided us with better raw materials, greater valuables, and improved workers. What does this have to do with art? Yes, as I mentioned earlier, art studies, such as music and other art studies, are primarily training in using the mind and in finding intelligent ways to come up with solutions. I'm not going to keep it any further today, but after this discussion, which I hope will become a more timely subject, the case will be directed to the General and Education Committee for further development.
