ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u1	Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request to provide a written answer to a covering query. 270, about hostilities and candidates for international protection, from Ásmundur Friðriksson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, and Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u3	President. We've heard many stories of what are sometimes called panic propaganda, I think, as it has been stated, that Iceland will be forced to pay billions for damages because it has not been successful enough in meeting the Kyoto Protocols. Have the highest. Ministers of the left green, please be diligent to remind us of this. During the past few days, it was reported in the News magazine, in an interview at the highest level. Environment Minister, this cost would run for billions of dollars because we have not done well enough. The message is always that strong measures are needed to avoid such guilt and will likely reduce the production and economic activities of this country. But now the chairman of the climate Fund has informed us in the News magazine that so-called CER units can be bought to solve this problem, and it will only cost about 187 million at the current level or will be those units. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Will the minister not ensure that this matter will be resolved either in such a way and in consultation with the Supreme Court. Financial and environmental ministers, or simply tell us about this system that no one seems to understand or realize how it works, because we don't know what will happen to this capital? At least I haven't heard an explanation for the counsellors who have spoken most about it. There's a lot of weird stuff in this whole thing. But there is a solution that is far less cheap than has been indicated by the fear - free propaganda we have enjoyed here in a number of years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for calling attention to this matter, which I actually consider to be a twofold. First, the situation is that I think we Icelanders are going to have to pay some account for passing out the releases of the past few years. That's not the kind of money that's available, like a sledgehammer. A senator rightly points out. As soon as it is available, it will be submitted in the government and, of course, at the Council, and we will make up that account according to the commitments we have applied. On the other hand, it's what I thought was a whale. This is where a senator indicates that from the moment we were under the commitments of the Kyoto Protocol, we've made even more commitments to emissions. Hv. A senator led the present government to be part of the Paris Treaty, and I was very pleased with the step of the then - existing government, to do exactly that, which, while we have to make up this release industry, which, of course, we will, of course, do as practically for the Icelandic State as possible and it will probably be explained in all the coming days or weeks, it will not change that we have accepted commitment to reduce emissions and they are not free from the air. I think I know what we're doing. A senator will agree that we should take pride in this. It will really be an application for Icelandic society to go through green transformation by reducing emissions and increasing binding. That is what we see the nations in general being doing. They're investigating the opportunities for the industry to reduce emissions, to process their production as environmentally as possible, because we want to do what we've said we're going to do, because we want to do what we're going to do because we want to do what we're going to do, and because Iceland can do something about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u5	Mr. President. Of course, Iceland can do its part and has certainly done so in the environment, especially by producing the most environmentally friendly aluminium in the world. We need to do this on our terms, for it has proved to be best, instead of being fined for having built up the environmental industry here. If he had built up elsewhere, in countries that did not meet the same conditions, he would have polluted much more. But now I'm wondering if it's the highest. The prime minister can answer the question rather than question environmental issues and later agreements. Here I am asking about the effects of the Kyoto Protocol and the claims we've been hearing repeatedly, that Iceland will have to pay billions for that reason. But Halldór Þorgeirsson, president of the Climate Council, News magazine, points out that this can be solved with 187 million or so, but it has to be done quickly because the deadline runs out at the end of the year. Why do I simply ask: Will the government use this opportunity? Because it sounds like the highest. A minister does not expect to disappear entirely from this arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u6	Mr. President. As mentioned in my case, I expect this will become clearer in the near future and before the end of the year, for like a dog. A senator rightly points out that delay expires at the end of the year. However, it is not that we are unwilling to pay any fines that someone else has decided. Rather, it is about our decision to become participants in this arrangement, which is about the world's growth of commitments and its economic motivation to reduce emissions. So it's not about some fines falling from heaven to innocent Icelanders, it's about that we've decided to do something. A senator has supported it. However, we will do so as effectively as possible. These news reports have been somewhat ambiguous, I admit, but this will be clear in the near future, and I expect a environmental minister to make a suggestion about how we're going to fix this and the person who has it. Of course, a senator, Halldór Þorgeirsson son, has taken up confidential work for the government in this area and has been an extremely important counselor for us on this very issue. [[The president calls.]] So what? A senator doesn't have to worry, we'll fix this up, stick to our commitment, and do it as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u7	A respectable president. Since the outbreak's beginning, restoration has given much weight to the development of scenarios, foreview of increased and more. We have also emphasized that there will also be a big step right away, that during concomitant treatments that can be criticized but that we have supported, there will be intensive economic operations, temporary measures aimed at putting the minds on the people who have lost jobs in the art sector, in the travel industry, in the food industry and then in the company in these articles, as well as the people who have become unemployed. As we look at this, we'll see that Iceland is the only nation that's ever been hit by a gang crash, and that's a big gang crash, on account of the crown. We are the only people in Europe who have experienced in times of crisis. Then there's the front shelf of the armored city that's going to be less unemployment in Iceland from the Icelandic crown. And when we look to Germany, we know that it is less than 5% - 5% unemployment. We're going up to 12% unemployment here in Iceland. So the argument about the crown has fallen itself. However, it is important to note that when operations are considered in Germany, the initiative packages that are being introduced today are the two Icelanders to three national operations. Then I ask: Could it be that this great difference, including the one with the other? in unemployment, is it because we do not take enough steps, that the economic actions are not sufficiently correlated with, and in accordance with heart - control measures? Business organizations want to eliminate the uncertainty as soon as possible, and I welcome it. They have provided conditions for disease prevention procedures, a clear, time-to-day reduction plan, something that is a very familiar, complex rule where further restrictions or reduction are associated with the incidence of infectious diseases, all a very normal view. I'd like to ask the highest. A travel minister to see if she will agree with these views of the Organization of Business and how it will promote the rightness of the government, to eliminate uncertainty as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u8	Mr. President. Of course, that assignment has been long and hard. When we left and took it in our arms, like other nations, and built resources, we hoped that it would be for a few months, not up to a year or even longer. We have thus brought new resources, provided conditions in previous measures, and always had eyes on that ball, ready to look at the situation as it is, and respond to it. I think we've done quite well over it. We have undergone very major measures that have had political support, both for the rescue of companies, to help them get over this period, but also by investing further and further in certain systems we believe in and where we would specifically like to move forward, whether it is for innovation or further investment projects on transport and other projects. Of course, it's been happening for a considerable time that this situation calls for a new approach to how we drive our professional life, how we all do things in this community, like anywhere else. Reports of vaccines have certainly changed that position. For the first time in a long time, I actually allow myself to be optimistic about a vaccine coming soon, and it will really be some kind of luxury to deal with being no longer looking at the whole of 2021 as a very heavy year, but it will be a year of resistance. Prescientity is important, and he's good, and we've given him where we've been able. When outside situations that are beyond our control are main factors in decisions you can make, you cannot ask for mercy. We've also tried to provide some kind of conditional prejudiciality, i.e. makes clear the circumstances in which you can change your mind, change your decision, and make new decisions. [[The president calls.]] I can totally agree with the firms of industry that it's important that we have a clear vision. [[The president calls.]] I feel like we've had a brain over it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u9	A respectable president. It is clear that resistance is going to be much harder if we do not keep the companies who have been hit, the forward models, including the rest of the world. In travel, food business, art life. If we do not take these big steps immediately, we will be more difficult and not as fast. I don't think the procedure is made -- I respect it and we've supported these measures, but we've said, "They're not extensive enough, they're not taking big steps yet. Is this based on the fact that the government's going to go to some premise? No, we're even. To see what other nations are doing. They are also faced with this vast uncertainty, but they have produced visual images. That's what I'm talking about. Tourism is calling for. Yesterday's newsmagazine reports: "If there is an uncertainty about disease prevention, there will be some problems. non-explicable, greater invisibility not set out, tourism companies will die here unsurpassed. This is a statement by members of a travel agency. [[The president calls.]] That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Will he take advantage of these views of the employment organization and of the tourism service to try to increase this prospect? [[The president calls.]] I further remind you that we have more unemployment than most other European countries we want to compare with. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We gotta get our shit together.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u10	The president asks why. Councilmen to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u11	Mr. President. If any countries are the same dependent on tourism and Iceland, where is unemployment most found? Yes, it is in travel, so, of course, that we have a lot of unemployment when the business we are dependent on by all countries falls and is paralyzed. Then it is the staff in the sector that temporarily loses employment. It is said that the measures were not enough. I'm not going to recite all of them, but the part-time improved way, the strength to lay down, the finals, the power of income, the strength of requisition, the delay of local payment, and the use of further injections are examples of measures that we have taken that have been of great importance to us. I don't know what these big steps are for that construction to call. Of course, the government alone will not save Icelandic employment through the pandemic and its sequelae. Enterprises will have to undergo a huge reorganization, e.g. play the key role of banks there, how they help their clients get through it on the grounds that they are authorized to do. We're gonna be more alert to travel services. [[The president calls.]] I'm not worried that we won't be able to deal with what we've said in the past year to the tourism service and what the tourism called for yesterday, in a new year, we'll be able to tell you what the arrangement will be like on the border. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u12	President. It is being crushed under those of their own, the president of ASI said in Castlight the other day, with the permission of a president. That's where Dottie Susdal referred, by the Snædal. in the planned increase in the stock market target which will bring the capital of 150,000. Additional supplies per month. The operation will mean that the largest earner people will be able to avoid paying 770 million dollars. K. in the combination that you would have thought is the highest category. A prime minister who teaches himself in social matters would have wanted to make other uses. At the same time, the Church of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, boasts of his plans to raise the income of the unemployed in a massive business crisis of 17,000 dollars. per month. This is what the government will finally do after the relentless struggle between the labor movement and the opposition for months, from the beginning of the ever - greater economic hardships. However, it is the same government that needed only one day to find 25 billion dollars. In his pocket to meet the freckles of the commercial organization the other day. As if waved at hand, a press conference was announced at the Presidency Hall. Prime Ministers rather muttered for businesses and funding in the country. V.E.G. A minister has said that we are all in the same boat in this turbulent sea that now crosses the Icelandic economy, but the examples simply prove the opposite. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Why is it crushing under the rich? Why is it, as Gustian's chief economist noted during the days, to share the public's money with those who do not need it when thousands are out of work and the land hospital is living under a conservative requirement? What is the underlying view?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. There's always a gamble between us. Councilmen when they say that the situation shows something, but then it's not right. Let's just review the examples of what this government has done in order to increase the equation in this country and improve the standard of living. This was approved by a righteous tax system, a stepwise tax system, which resulted in a reduction in taxation to the income. Is it crushing under the rich? I don't think so. Yeah, we increased unemployment rates. In fact, with the changes during the New Year's season, they have increased by 35% during this terms, much less than the financial assistance of rural society has increased during this same terms under consideration. Hv. A senator may want to think about it and discuss with his platoon leaders. Yeah, we've got an extension of maternity. Is it to crush under the rich, or is it to improve the quality of life of young people whose data show that just when we look back at a decade? We created a new network of share loans to support those who have to buy new housing and have had difficulty doing so in recent years. Is to crush under the rich, boy. Senator? Is that an example? Is the arrangement that has been decided to attack, reviewing the social security system, so that the amount of money that comes to be paid to those who have least increased more than the others? I'm asking why. Consider the case of a senator. Is it raising the capital tax to 22%, but surely reevaluating income, as laid down in a government contract, an example of crushing under the rich? Hv. A senator needs to ask himself, " When the example proves something and to refer to the economics of a Boston bank, which was in its own interest discussing the financial resources inside the banks and indicating that the government had decided to share money, it is now simply evidence of ignorance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u14	A respectable president. Somehow I pretended I knew that the highest. The prime minister would mention steps between the tax system and the equation. But we both know that the step-change system mentioned by a minister would be more efficient than the most lucrative of income. That income group, the busiest, would have been most useful in receiving the same treatment that the money owners are receiving today, i.e. an increase in the number of holidays or personality discounts. Now we're gonna get 150,000 capital owners. Extra provisions per month, while unemployed receives 17,000 dollars. This is a monthly supplement to the provisional income. Where's the equation, topv? Prime Minister? Then I just wanted to say that I don't think it's very heroic to raise capital taxes by 2 percentage points, up to 22%, while the fiscal tax in the countries we're most comparing to, in the states of the North countries, is between 301⁄242%.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u15	Mr. President. I don't know if I should understand a word or not. A senator is a stepwise tax system. Her words made sense, and if so, I find it interesting. The nations that we compare with where we are the greatest and prosperous people are just the nations that have stepd in tax systems. So I find it interesting, when it comes to it. A senator comes up here discussing what the government has done, that it has this position. I'm just taking it out of this inquiry class. I'd like to mention it, too, because of that. A senator will discuss the actions of the government for a pandemic, that the largest single operation has been about making sure that people can maintain employment relationships and remain in part - time jobs. It is the best new administration of the government when we look at what has been done. About 20 billion have slipped into it, which we will extend to summer. I know that there's no doubt someone who thinks it's a why. In addition to making sure that people can stay on the job, members of this body feel that overcoming unemployment is not the largest government issue at any given time. [[The president calls.]] But my opinion is that unemployment is the greatest long - term problem this country can have, and it is very important to work on it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u16	A respectable president. ▪ The insurance companies never get enough money from a car owner, says a headline in the recently published magazine FIB. The insurance debt of the insurance companies is more than 100 billion dollars. These 100 billion are overemphasis that insurance companies claim to owe insurance companies to repair possible damages, which they avoid by all means paying, and thus there is money in the budget. Normal people recognize these debts as insurance benefits, i.e. money designed to repair damage. All this money has to be done in addition to 120 million. K. ... theexploitmentoftheexploitors. They get away with it because they have no real competition between them. On the contrary, they compete to collect money into a pile of funds in the form of the funds, where they enjoy the protection of the Federal Bank, which is probably shut down in some drawer and is not let out. They continue to add to the fund and thus do not put up too much money, and the funds are never made up, as normal nations usually do. Then money is wrong and needs to be raised minimum by 66 years and younger from 3.3 billion. K. of 6.3 billion. A k, or about 100%. Prior to 74 years and older, minimum targets would increase from 1.1 billion. K. into 2.1 million. A.K., about 87%. Factors, such as they are now involved in damages, are corrosive, and it is quite remarkable that there is a total of 87% missing. It means, in English, that the work of a group of people who might be involved in accidents and pay them almost twice as low as they should get. That's why my question is to the highest. Minister of Justice: Will she accept a statement made here at the council that allows for changing these revenues and that the funds of the insurance companies will be established, as other civilized nations do?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before, and that's right. A senator says, the damage laws need to be reimbursed. That work has been done for quite some time. She may not have been able to work as fast as her hopes were, but the bill was submitted to the Council, which could not be completed on this review. Then there were proposed changes to all these factors. A senator, who was about the geometric index, appears on these income criteria, the amount of money on withdrawal regulations, and all of this. It was then to revise the process and may not have been completed to reevaluate the production of the microenergy food, and this has not been due to a number of factors. It is clear, however, that it is long time for us to take that process for a review, the microenergy evaluation process. I just agree with that. Senator. It is difficult to see how a minister himself should influence what a microenergy committee called experts provides in the micropower tables. In essence, it is possible for a minister to enter his own food. This does not change the need for a review of the law and the need to change all of this. As a result, the improvement for these commonly installed tablets will, of course, suggest that the micro-energy committee constitutes this table, and there is, of course, a pretty clear legal authority. This committee has increased and improved the tables considerably since 2006, taking into account the changes that have occurred in our neighboring countries since then. But it's a job, and it will continue, even though I don't know if such a bill will appear at this council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u18	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice, this is about the numbers. The numbers are half as old as 66 years of age and under 74 years of age or older. This is a fact that it can change even now. Of course, this is not to be changed because while insurance companies struggle. V.E.G. The minister of justice did not answer one question, and I want to know: Why, on the contrary, are these funds not made up every five to ten years, as civilized nations do? These include billions of people who could be used in the Grensá, where victims of accidents have to attend the service, Land Hospital, Police, there are money that is needed to be used in the system, and it is time for this government to come out of a financial fog that she seems to be running around and scraping off her pants and getting things right. There are people who lose half the money, just because of the money, which is no problem, who would fly through this council if a minister brought it, and I ask the minister: Is she going to come and make sure the figures are correct and the funds are taken up? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u19	A respectable president. I think a complete review of the damage laws, since these numbers would have to be updated in steps and that we will take steps to correct all these issues. The first bill that came out here and didn't go through was the first step. Then, the next step in the review was to follow, where this was to be taken in stages. Of course, in terms of the payment of funds, it is insurance and may not be less of a legal minister. But I'm all willing to reconsider the damage laws and know that such a review is needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u20	Mr. President. The high school years are a great formative year in young people's lives. This is more often than not where friends exist. We learn about ourselves, grow up, and find ways to the future. I'd like to record it here at the outset that I was, and I'm still aware that the reduction of high school was wrong with this important aspect in those years, but there's another debate. Sadly, in the fall, governments were not far - open enough to be prepared by a response to the second and third wave of an epidemic. In fact, it was natural that everything was locked up in high school during springtime when the virus came out of nowhere. However, when work should have started at the head of education, it should have been in order to create this foundation for socializing that is necessary in addition to study. How can this be accomplished without any lasting harm to young people? Students in the tenth grade of high school are allowed to study with masks, but their peers in first grade have not been to school for the whole fall. Now it's time to make it clear that I'm a member of the Administrative Board, so I'm not asking for the highest levels of illness. A minister to answer me with just the rules, but to answer the parents who now are extremely concerned about their children's health and well-being, whether a minister intends to think outside the box in order to meet the needs of this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u21	A respectable president. I couldn't agree more. A senator's translation of the importance that we can have as much standards as possible in these difficult times. I'd also like to inform you what. A member of the Parliament that at the beginning of the autumnmissary, high school began to be a standard education. True, there were compartments, but we managed to maintain it until, unfortunately, we had to put up with the prevention measures because we are dealing with a common viral enemy. If I could change everything today, I'd change the fact that this virus wasn't there and all our young people were studying. But that's just too bad. I'd like to mention some of the things we went on and how we've been working this thing. We set priorities for those who are in their first year of high school. They were more prerogatives than others. That was part of our plan. On the one hand, we too set priorities for those who were studying for an art class, and many of those students have been able to attend their high school all along. Third, we're improving support. I'd like to mention, because of what. A senator's concern for the well - being of young people is understandable, and I'm sure it's also true that we've been improving support, and there's an increasing psychology service in high school, including the health care department, and it's also been offered for telecommunications, that's a contract we made recently.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u22	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Yeah, I also wish it wasn't a virus, but that's not an answer. Last night, we heard from a school manager who described the good gang of students and a small drop. Now let's just keep in mind that most schools have not finished their skulls, so it's hardly clear with deletion numbers. The loss of students from high school in this country is no less than half as much as in the rest of the North countries. We stand out as totally different, since one in five feels that he does not belong in our high school system and one in four boys. This should be a reason for the government to take aggressive action to confront these young people, not just in a pandemic. There was a distress call from the school of High School at Sunjam. Daily routine is footed, and even high school students are said to be in phases and outs of school. This is the experience of parents who live with their children but who do not meet them in private meetings very rarely a week. They say that they wait many weeks for a psychological service in school, and there is no question about the potential situation. [[The president calls.]] Can we reset this semester? Is it possible to send a clear message to the students that they will get relief and that the fall in the phases will be removed from the scorebooks so that they will not be affected for the future? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is probably the most vulnerable group that seems to be forgotten. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I ask, " Where will the government meet them? ' The situation is very serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u23	A respectable president. We have been doing everything in our power to ensure the highest standards and to meet these amazing conditions. I did a little research on how we are supporting support. I'm also going to mention some aspects of how we're going through this semester. It's being taken into account in study food, including by being more flexible. Hv. A senator quoted the words of one driver or a schoolmaster, I give myself, as the members were reviewing how this term has come out. I think there's an extreme need to evaluate situations when we get the results in the house. For example, in spring biomass, a large number were expected to be more eliminated. It wasn't. There were a lot of people who expected their grades to be lower. It wasn't. What we're going to do now, and I'm absolutely convinced that it would. A senator completely agrees with me in saying that there are certain exceptions, that the same avoidance in high school and youth levels. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And I want to tell you what. A senator says that I have truly fought to secure a local education.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u24	The arrangement has been agreed on. After the past history of the minister, representatives of all classes have the right to direct questions to the minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u25	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for the opportunity to give the council a report on the situation. I think there is nothing more than honest to say, in the present situation in society, by Covid-19 and by the anti-pyretic measures that the nation has had to take, that the employment market situation is very serious. It would be wrong to say otherwise in this room. By the end of October, the total number of job jobs was more than 20,000 in the public unemployment insurance system, along with over 5,000 people in part - time work. I'm studying it to over 11% of the population unemployment rate. But it is taking a month in which unemployment is generally increasing in the Icelandic community due to seasonal fluctuation and thus unemployment is expected to be more than 11% before the Passover. We do not expect the labour market to respond properly until we start looking at positive reports of vaccine products. Fortunately, we're looking at such news, and I think it's extremely important for Icelandic society that it works out because, as noted, even. in discussions about budgets, funds assume that we will be getting involved with the tourist service or in a significant way starting next year. Tourism has been the most devastating event in the epidemic and has been linked to it. However, it is also appropriate to discuss other articles that have gone down under these circumstances, including construction, where there was an increase of over 700 persons in unemployment records between October 2019 and October 2020. There are also months ahead of us because of the climate in Iceland, where construction is much less than during the summer. The impact is on the whole country. The number of jobs in the capital area and in the Southnes, however, has increased by well over 8,000 people between October 2019 and 2020, nearly 5,300 a year but now 13,300. In the South, nearly 2,200 people have grown from year to year and today there are nearly 3,300 unemployed persons in Southnes. We've taken a lot of action, and I'm not going to recite it here, but I'm going to review the emphasis that will be put on the winter, in terms of the services of unemployed individuals. First to mention study is an opportunity, since we have 3,000 lines of study designed for individuals who have been employed for six months or more. That's three times as much effort as it was in the years following a financial collapse with about 1,000 school spaces. The preparation for this operation is well started and is doing well. Job drivers may also receive 100% basic non-employment benefits, as well as an 11.5% contribution to the employment grant to hire a unemployed jobseeker. This may last for up to six months, and the strength may be 2,22,000. each month as a business or public agency works. We've changed regulations on autumn days which means that everyone who's been six months without a job is taking 100% of their power into 100% of a professional profession. We're giving us full strength so that business can take people off unemployment record. It is in preparation to co-operate with several large societies, government agencies and employment drivers in general to create jobs with the strength to accept this. We have also increased various effective measures in the Labour Office, scope for studying together with unemployment reforms, increased contributions to jobseekers due to participation in studies, etc. At the same time, the employment services of the employment agency, where an average of 175 jobs are advertised per month, have been added from 135 jobs each year. But we need to keep moving. This winter is going to be a big business, but, fortunately, the vaccine and the best, and the most important way to start a business is to start travel, the principle of today's unemployment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u26	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this overview. It was like reading the magazines, listing what is available, both in magazines and on the Internet, about the number of job jobs, etc. But there is no vision. There was no record of what to do in the future, and it is not that, Mr. President, it is this morning, the secretary - general of the industry in the News News magazine, says with permission of the president: It is time to make significant reductions in this long - term uncertainty and set up a clear schedule for the final measures. That's exactly what we do, e.g. in the Middle Ages, we've criticized them from the very beginning, i.e. that when men began to start taking action here, they were short of time. The action people are waiting for has been extended for about three months. It is natural that it is totally unacceptable and intolerable. Now it's at the top. Minister: We're waiting for the vaccine. It's normal in itself, but there's no policy. What are we going to do? I'm not going to deny that people get to take courses or that some people will be hired with support, but how are people going to do this? How to behave for the next 18 months, e.g.? The newspaper this morning quotes Halldór Benjamín, the son of Þorbergsson, and I testify again, with the permission of a president: ▪ Professional society calls for government experience in the fight against the spread of the crown virus and provides a clear framework for the next month's actions. That's why I have to ask the highest. Minister: What will he and the government do, e.g. for the next 18 months? Will we continue to extend operations by about a week, two or two months, or what will the government do? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u27	A respectable president. Yes, it's been a characteristic of the language. A senator here since this virus came up that he has considered himself to be a predictor of how the virus behaves. When the virus first arose, the government immediately entered the partial reformer route. We thought this would be a short time because no one knew how this kind of virus works. Some of them have gradually died out, some of which have lasted a long time, etc., but whatever. A senator claims to have answered that question and always had it. I think that's simply wrong. The government, in cooperation with the job and with the labor movement, with the heads of various areas, has been working to cover employees with a wide range of measures for jobseekers. We have also undergone many business operations. The minister of finance just introduced a client's demand grant not so long ago, so we've undergone a number of operations. It is simply honest to say that when one industry, we believe it is temporary, it will fall out completely, an industry that had become one of the largest sectors in the nation, it is not that there will be one, two, three. Hv. A senator has made it his policy to build a crop factory in Iceland. A crop factory will not be built in ten months, sharp. Senator. It is simply that we had a business that is extremely powerful, which is tourism, and many things connected to it simply closed temporarily. We are under attack on a variety of measures, and the senator is not to belittle it when it comes to learning, when speaking of the vast contribution made to companies that employ unemployment because we see that it has been successful in history, and so will it now. Happily, though, the end of this virus is sparkling, and this will be most important in reducing unemployment in our country. It is simply dishonest not to admit that it is primarily the travel service involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u28	V.E.G. President. It's like the highest. A minister would not have a good reason to defend his time in shaking into the person here rather than isolate himself into telling what he would like to do. Perhaps it is because he does not know what he will or will do. This was a reference to travel services, but there is one activity in a service that seems to have been completely overlooked, in the activities being carried out, and there is a small travel service company, a bedside at the owner's own social security number. It seems like this, and I've got digestions about it from this sector, that there had no operations done and no actions fit into that field. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister what he intends to do about it. There's another business I've also received information on perpetuating my leg, and it's a company that's formed after 1st March, i.e. a business founded when the first wave of the virus went down; perhaps two months was left alone but has since been half closed and more. And there I am, e.g. talking about the restaurant activity that has been set up at this time. I say, and I'm asking the president to remember what I said earlier, that I said I appreciated the fact that there were arrangements that men could take a course and companies could hire them. I wasn't trying to minimize it, it's wrong at the highest level. Minister. A minister may just choose to hear it that way, and it is his problem not to look at matters ahead of him, but to the one who brings bad messages to him, it is not a good way to do such things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u29	A respectable president. The person standing here is not running away from telling us what we are going to do because it is perfectly clear. We've been meaning to bridge the amount of virus that is forming in the Icelandic community by means of multiple measures. Hv. In fact, a senator accepted that direction by speaking about the need to be a little larger or slightly larger, and they need to be changed a little. The task is to bridge the gap for the job, for the public during the course of the virus. This is not a permanent situation. That's what the government's put together. It's a client's policy. At first, we thought it would be a short wait. It's been longer and that's why we're extended during the operation. That's why we've brought up some new operations, we've got a power of wood, a closing strength, etc. But are these measures designed to reach everyone? That is what has been discussed here under the measures under consideration. It is the discussion that is perfectly natural to always take place. The government's been moving on. She has reached out to the companies in the country to protect her employment so that the resistance can be strong. But can there be any group where we haven't really grabbed 100%? Yeah, it's definitely that way because it's all being done at high speed. All of this is being done at high speed, forming actions to intervene and react to each situation. Government policy is clear. We're going to be there with people, we're going to be with companies to bridge this interval until the virus has disappeared from Icelandic society. That's why we have a budget bill for the next year, where we expect 100 billion angles, that we're going to use the government fund to bridge the gap. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u30	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank you for the discussion of the Department of Social Affairs and Children's Report as presented here. I can't imagine being in the position of being out of work. All who have lost their jobs are pained by commitments, no compensations, and it is the pride of each person to earn a living. The government decided to pay a special additional burden on the basic unemployment insurance benefits and to raise the basics at 307,000 dollars. From New Year's Eve. Maximum income-related unemployment rates are 456,000. per month and this right has been extended temporarily to six months, with a range of resources available to September 30, 2021. Increasing payments for the implementation of children of jobseekers will be extended in the following year. For each child, a 6% additional burden is calculated above basic non-employment improvements due to the implementation of each child instead of 4% previously. In addition, a December equivalent of 86,000 is paid. The government's actions have taken into account the survival of its homes and employment, but neither can be. Those who try to use the situation to drive signals between jobs and homes in the condition that society is speaking into darkness. But it has to be told the whole story as it is. In this great unemployment, companies are expected to seek out staff, but they have little or no response. This shouldn't be there, but I personally have entered an enterprise that has not reached anyone's opening positions. A respectable president. There is concern that people who have unemployment improvements turn down their jobs. So I'm asking the Minister of Social Affairs what rules at the Labour Department to get people on unemployment to jobs available. It is also our privilege to help others get back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u31	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry. During the first few months after Covid, March, April, May, and the summer, a labour agency was all up to the head just to put in applications and make compensations because there was about a quarter of the labour market at this time. At the same time, people were adapting to the changed circumstances of their secular work, and the agency was also training new people to whom it added. However, as the summer went by, there was a way to increase the emphasis on the workforce of the employment agency. It's like that, like a bang. A senator rightly points out that people who have a unemployment record are not to be turned down. It's a bridge between jobs for others. As a result, it is a pleasure to know that what has gone through the workforce has been increasing, increasing much on spring days, and now in October 175 jobs are advertised through this workforce. The subject is that after the first month of unemployment, an individual who rejects work via employment is to lose unemployment for a certain period of time. Because of their rejection of work, more than 200 people have been considered in unemployment insurance, 80 people have lost their bills. During the past two months, the employment service in the Rhines has put 50 people in the area in full - time work throughout this canal. If people reject this workforce, they should lose out for a certain amount of time. I hope this answers a question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u32	A respectable president. I thank the Minister's answer. I also think it is important that we discuss the ways in which we have gone to improve the possibility of getting people to work. We know in this room that the worst is when people get stuck in unemployment and find it hard to get out of it. There has been a agreement between the employment industry and the job drivers for a special contribution to people who want to get to work and, in fact, make up their own jobs. I'd like to know if the Minister studied it. I'd also like to ask how it's been possible for a company to make good use of the way that unemployment benefits go with new jobs. How important it is that we do all we can to get people to work again! The sooner the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. Yes, I'm aware that the Department of Employment has been in a number of cooperations through his office at Smokejanesi. I think that's a good reason to keep it going. A senator said here. We've cleared up the rules for enterprises so that they can get recruitment grants with each employee. There is every reason to use this discussion to advertise it, so that employers who can add themselves to their jobs know that they can get 100% basic employment benefits, as well as 11.5% of a pension fund, in strength to hire a jobseeker for up to six months. They can get 322,804 k. in recruitment strength with each employee for up to six months. The rules have been cleared, too, and the time for the individual to have been unemployed is reduced. So there is good reason to encourage them. A senator was doing it here, and I do it too and agree with his words.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u34	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for report. I think it is clear that action will take on the subject field below the highest level. Ministers are extremely important in the context we are dealing with, the consequences of the Covid epidemic. I might just want to change my rhythm in this conversation, if I may, and ask the highest. Minister: If we look ahead and consider what the situation is when we have faced the current acute situation, we are at the highest level. Then the minister won't agree with me that the way forwards, to get out of the unemployment that has already been seen and will probably grow in the months to come, must be that way, and I wait the highest. Minister to share his thoughts with me, to pay the way of employment to create more jobs? I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister has come to the job of considering in his field of work how to make changes that will help to make the job worth fighting when the worst blow has taken place and how we can improve Icelandic employment status in order to create jobs instead of those who have been lost in the past few months.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. From the beginning, we've been reviewing how you can intervene and react and create jobs. By various impulse measures, whether in the tax system or, as we are doing here, with recruitment grants, you can promote jobs. There are also simple rules of order, such as we are in preparation for the development of housing, activities and planning, related to the entire biographies. All of this works very well and is important. If we're going to attack the big unemployment rate, this much increase, then all the analysis shows that it will be done only by getting tourism back on track, but we're going to do it in a short time. Although we are taking action here during the financial breakdown and triple them or four times that, it is simply that when we break down a whole business, the most important thing to do is to keep the economy strong or to help them stay alive at the start of the fight. More recently, but over a long period of time, there are several incentives to encourage Icelandic employment to move forward, encourage innovation done in the present government by making very handsome donations, simple regulations that I have come to when it comes to housing and human activities, etc. All of this is a relatively long - term situation, but it is even less important in these circumstances to bear this in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u36	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I think we're thinking this in a very similar way, i.e. that we may be able to split our battles into three steps. Of course, the first step is where we are today. We are trying to cope with emergency situations and problems that are smiled on and trying to soften it as we can. The next step is, like the highest. A minister mentioned, of course, very much depending on how quickly travel can be restored. It would be the most important thing about economic growth and growth in the future months and years if tourism were to come back soon. Then maybe the third step is the long - term thought, tops. A minister correctly agreed to link policy with the general work environment in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u37	A respectable president. Yeah, I think you're right. A senator and I believe we agree that we are, first of all, thinking about emergency operations and second, how we can get travel services and related articles to help. And it may not only be tourism but, in one way or another, industry that has been misinjuring this virus - it's not just tourism, it's a store and service, it's sports life, the sports movement's big workplace, etc. Then there are these long - term thoughts that we must not forget, and we need to keep in mind. I think that's what the government did on a considerable scale, including... with progressive initiatives in innovations approved by budgetors. True, at times we were caught up in the emergency situation, not looking to the future. [[The president calls.]] That's why it's urgent. A good senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u38	Mr. President. On July 11th. reported in the News News magazine that the number of people in the South would be all the more likely to grow. According to government and community support, Oddsdóttir Oddsdsdóttir, a social worker at the church's aid work, a government welfare officer. The welfare watch was meeting for some summer with the local authorities and other stakeholders on the Southnes where the situation following the Covid-19 pandemic was discussed. The lack of employment in Southnes in October was 21.1% and is expected to continue to increase. There's a lot of unemployment in Southnes, and when people fall off their notices in the fall, and get on the edge of written unemployment, we know that they'll be a real problem. Then people will live in great poverty. It is absolutely clear that there people will live in very limited numbers, as reported by Vilborg in the summer news. Sadly, social media shows that many unemployed are very difficult. For example, at community markets there is a growing number of calls and requests for food gifts or help to buy parts of a household appliance. There are very many stories of Southnes, of help requests from people who do not have food or other needs. So I ask the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs, whether the Department of Health has given him a recent report on the situation in the Southnes. Has the minister responded specifically to the situation in the part of the country, or did he exist?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry, and I'll be worried about it. A senator of the state of Southnes. The minister does not intend to try to enhance that position because it is very serious. In general, the government has attacked measures aimed at the worse affected areas, and this was in spring social action where funds were made. It's been done by a capital marked in an equation fund and is particularly to promote the social services, the Minister of Ministers, I think that's about 700 million. This is followed by a fund designed for leisure purposes, just under a billion, 600 million this year, and so on in the next year, and the nature of the matter will go into this area. Since then, we have been in touch with the local city authorities. We've been meeting with them. Not long ago, I went to a meeting with the local authorities and social services, both in Smokejanestown and in Southern Town, where various matters were discussed. Among other things, during the autumns there was a change in regulations that led to the recruitment strength of the product of the conversation taken there. But then we also have a request and were introduced on Friday, and we expect to be discussed here in connection with 2nd. budgets, some 900 million to support socially vulnerable groups. For the conversation that's going on, we've been having a good conversation with the welfare department, but we've also had a social worker in the area. I had a monthly meeting with every social worker in the country, and last night we were going over the expected social procedures. [[The president calls.]] So, yes, I've worked hard to have a good relationship and a conversation with the local authorities and people in the area, and I'm willing to listen if there are some tips.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u40	Mr. President. I thank the minister for his answer, and I certainly have had all kinds of tips on many things that have not been heard. I've had a place to say before. A minister for what I find to be a terrible injustice, the government's decision to extend the income - related period of unemployment to half of those who were unemployed in August. The 10,000 who lost their jobs in February or earlier are left behind, although there is no job problem for those jobseekers. The worst are left in a very difficult situation. To extend the income - related period for everyone, not just for those who have been unemployed, could never cost more than 5 billion dollars. ... fora fundof state. In comparison, a few days ago, we agreed on a corporate drop-down scholarship that might cost about 30 billion, and today it is recommended that corporate support be measured, which could cost the State about 20 billion. This is in addition to others'support of enterprises that are truly needed. However, homes have also suffered a massive loss of income and need a divorce but the highest. A government is more reluctant to deal with that problem. During the following months, the number of people who have no other resources will increase continuously than to consult rural communities for financial resources that in any case are lower than basic inefficiency and the conditions for support support are strict. I remind you that WOW's fall was early last year, and the land's unemployment rate was 5% this year in February and it already reached 9% in the South. And that is predicted to be 10% unemployment next year, and there are about 20,000 people. Is it not the least that the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter can do in this position to extend the unemployment period by 12 months? Or the highest. Social and child - care minister just so that the people are forced to report to the countryside in a commercial crisis and a pandemic?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u41	A respectable president. We've undergone multiple operations. Hv. A senator says that he is never listening. I don't think that's quite right, because for some of the measures we've been taking, there's just been an urgent need. A senator to attack them, to make changes in the income process so that they could reach all who lost their jobs after March 1. I remember that reason. A senator spoke for special pressures on children of unemployed, that it would go to 6%. I don't know any better than the government is now extending it. That's why. A senator who has pointed it out. In general, some measures have been introduced aimed at increasing the basics and extending this 6% stress over the next year. They may respond further. We're always watching it and looking, and we're having a good, strong conversation and cooperation with others. A Union of Icelandic rural society. And because of what? A senator here deals with the interaction of social services with the end of the unemployment reform period, which is one of the things we've been discussing in a good conversation and cooperation between the European Union and the Ministry. How will evolution develop in the next month? How is that defined between parts of the country? What's being done with people there, etc.? This may well be, because this conversation has led to action, and is not shut down for any further action taken. But at the same time, we keep an eye on when we start seeing the epidemic go down, and it's simply a interaction between them. So it's not now. We are now entering the council. [[The president calls.]] Is that the last thing you've done? I hope they have the last action, and we start to provide for the end of this situation. But if it lasts, further action will be needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u42	We have a problem with the president now. [[Flmrh.: For the first time.]] - For the first time in my life. [[The Matrix is eager to...]] - Yeah. Here on my computer screen, there's no one on the rosary. [[Upwards:...]] - Yeah, yeah, I'm gonna figure this out. But I accept your word.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u43	Mr. President. I hope there's the right man in the right place at the right time, like he says somewhere. But I'd rather talk to the highest. Minister on the recruitment grant. These are measures that have been used previously. I have often wondered why they have not been used more than ever, whether to form the criteria that have only been extended, as mentioned in the Supreme Court. Ministers, let's still be tight. The workforce's website provides excellent information on strength, but it does not show how much strength has been used. This is not revealed in the best monthly reports of the same institution. I wondered, " Is this simply so small that the Agency does not think that there is any reason to list it or that this is information that is difficult to gather in real time, such as the monthly reports may be somehow. ' But strengthen like these, i.e. recruitment concentrations, these may be of great importance and in some respects similar to motor strength, i.e. that the company who sees and trusts that there will be a better time with flowers in the fields can start with these support to hire people before then, and even before the income flows to the company begin if this is maintained sufficiently in the economy and, as mentioned earlier, the criteria are large enough. I'd like to hear a minister say something to me about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u44	A respectable president. The appeal to these agreements has been increasing in the autumn months, allowing it to take place. That may even be the case. after the change in regulations. According to this report, in August and September 118 contracts were made for this level of employment, and the remaining year it has reached 368, with a third in two months. Hence, the pursuit is increasing, and we are afraid that it will be possible to continue. The problem is that we change a Regulation that makes it possible that if unemployment goes up for a certain date - a person who has been out of work for a certain number of months to be hired - the person may have been out of work for one month in that area for a period of time so that it can be chosen. The problem is always the line dancing in this because you don't give the message to your job that everyone can get a scholarship with all the employees. It's mostly thinking about enterprises that can add to themselves and as a bridge to unemployment. If we're going to get too close to this line, this is simply a company support and state strength. Then there is the resources that should not be handled by the labour oce or employment minister to be implemented, such as income dropbacks, remuneration grants, and anything else at the highest level. Secretary of finance, and he has recommended them here. So there may be more to do in this, but I don't know how much more can be done. I'd like to see if this step that has been on autumn days has not continued, and more people are taking advantage of it as they pass because in September 71, but here in the first few months of the year, it has been 203/430, so it has more than doubled, though. But I'd love to see it be higher and more, I'd agree with it by reason. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u45	Mr. President. Just keep on doing this to soften the importance of this. With the recruitment strengths, at least In some ways you can deal with the inevitable problems when people lose their jobs and no longer have the daily routine that is so important, to get a job. This can have a lot to say, for instance, when innovation companies are about to start, and perhaps they need a little help to get started. I still want the second round to go in the highest. Minister after resorting to a special support for children's income - stricken families. It is a project that is likely of enormous importance to jobseekers because the lowest income is expected to be there. Then I'd like to hear down to the minister, because he mentioned this with the local financial support and the conversation that had taken place with the rural communities, that it is of great importance that the Ministry has initiative to encourage rural society to use these resources, but also to encourage rural communities to examine and determine whether their financial support is sufficiently abundant, let's say. Because, as mentioned in the case of a man. paritaprevir Today, our daughter, Oddný Harðardóttir, is almost anticipated to increase the number of people who have to go to the countryside by means of financial support. Even if they're something less than 1,000 people who have been, according to the labour company's numbers for more than two years for job search, this group will grow.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u46	A respectable president. Thanks for that. That is true, the group who complete their rights will increase, especially as the next year goes by if the job does not begin to grow before that time. Nevertheless, we have cooperated with our rural communities in a practical way, in some of the instruments that meet our rural communities in one way or another. We place over a billion people in leisure strength for low income families, which means about 45,000 bucks. on each child for leisure purposes. We've had social action here on spring days, and that's 900 million. K. prospective to further social action if the budget is agreed. To form the government's political decision that during the time of Covid, we would not have any homeless people on the street, making a deal with the city of Reykjavík and is fully funded by the government. Indeed, it is a community's job to care for it. At the same time, we've been in a conversation with our rural society and social services to map out how the financial support is done between rural society. There are differences, and there is no doubt that this will lead to further action when we enter a new year. That is still true. I agree with what. A senator of the seriousness of the situation, but it can also be expected that rural society will have to take on some loans and commitments that will someday take to pay, as the State has done through this pandemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u47	A respectable president. V.E.G. During his career, a minister exceeded the striking high figures of the unemployed and their ratios were highest in the Southnes and in the capital area. But I missed hearing the highest part. A minister makes a comment about the largest individual group currently unemployed, and these are immigrants. 7,000 immigrants have no job in Iceland. Artists who were motorists in the last goods are now nearly half of all the unemployed. But there is no evidence that the government's labour markets are moving toward the needs of this group only to a considerable degree. The training program is the highest. The minister referred to me as most of them were in Icelandic. It should also be noted that the Polish phone line of the employment agency has been closed, making it difficult for 4,000 people of Polish background to obtain information on their rights and resources. I'd like to ask you why the highest. A minister did not speak of this largest group of unemployed people in Iceland in his history. What provisions will the government take to support the unemployed foreigners? Why do we not try to meet this large group, nearly half of all the unemployed foreign citizens?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u48	A respectable president. You're right on top of it. A senator, on the extreme part of those who are unemployed today, is immigrants. This is different from what was in the financial breakdown after 2009. At that time, the percentage of immigrants was not that high. Reason for the Supreme Being. A minister did not mention this in his enforcing speech, so I tell the simple explanation that time was fast enough for me to have a chance to mention all the factors. We're on a multi-task basis, especially for this group. Icelandic education is being coordinated for immigrants. The development of a special study program for this group is being developed, and we also have a substantial budget for the 900 million, both in the funds that were here and again in our social activities, which will hopefully be approved for Christmas, which will take particular action for immigrants. This includes: Note that we are opening in mid - January, temporarily because of Covid, a special immigrant counseling agency that connects all systems and can provide the unemployed service of immigrants in one place. A labour agency will enter it, a multi-cultural centre will enter it, as will the Ministry of Social Affairs. We'll be able to put counseling and service there for this group and we'll be planning a considerable amount of money on it next year. The reason we don't have a lot of prepared, tailor-cutting features for this group is because we haven't dealt with so high the unemployment rate among immigrants before. So there is not much experience and knowledge to deal with in the system, with a financial agency. In the absence of experience and knowledge, the trick is not so great. [[The president calls.]] But I expect that once we get this consulting agency started in mid - January and its action, we will begin to see increased strength in the service of this truly important group of people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u49	A respectable president. Since the immigrants are about 15% of the population in Iceland, I wondered why there is a temporary relief to meet their needs, to promote their access to the rights we live in here. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if there is access to emigrants to university education, e.g. Icelandic college. And I just want to talk to the highest. Minister for the Invisible People, e.g. Polish people who speak neither English nor Icelandic nor have no way of learning their rights. What's going to happen? Ministers to meet that group? If they have to wait until January, or they may be able to open the workforce's phone line again so that they can at least Talk to someone in Polish about their rights, minimum employment rights? I also want to talk about the terrible buildings of this same invisible people. What's the highest. Ministers to make up for the terrible houses of immigrants in boarding rooms? What is the greatest lesson for us. A minister derived from the fire of the Braerburg Path? What will he do to make such national tragedies never happen again?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. There were a lot of questions in this. First of all, why is this measures temporary? This is simply because it is usually that way in the administration. In any case, my experience is that lasting measures often begin on temporary measures and then we realize if they work. We'll put this on for a while to see how it works. If this works very well, I don't see any other reason but that it's going to be done permanently. I have been involved in a number of temporary matters that, after proving their worth, became somehow permanent. It is not proper to have all study options in English. There are study tools in more languages, and this is just the nature of a language, so learning arrangements have been in our country. That's what I said earlier. Therefore, it has taken time to cope. The Agency has also set up a special department within the Agency, making organizational adjustments to increase the importance of immigrants and alien languages, and the affairs of foreigners in connection with the down cycle. With the phone line, I'll check because I'm hearing this for the first time. I have emphasized that it is a good service to this group as well as to others. As for the burning of the Bjords, the terrible fire, I join with the wind. A senator, on the basis of his field of research, goes to a Homekeeping and Human Fortress. That investigation is about to come to an end. I requested that, along with this investigation, they transfer laws and rules in cooperation with the Ministry with the objective of checking where we can intervene in legalization, for factors that can be changed to try with all means to prevent this from happening again. According to the information I've received from Homology and Civilization Institute, the conclusion is from looking for this December.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u51	A respectable president. This talk has been a big part of the world and has been very interesting and informative, and I want to thank you very much. Minister especially for meaningful answers. I'd like to start by talking about the situation on the Southnes, like hell. paritaprevir Actually, Oddný G. Harðardóttir came in too. The minister responded very well, but there are some things I would be interested in discussing more specifically in this area. As mentioned, there are more than 20% of unemployment in the area. Much of it can be explained by the collapse of international tourism. This tells us that we have to look to the future and build a wider range of jobs all over the country because there's gonna be another crash, there's going to be another epidemic. The only question is when. Hv. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir came into the immigrant position of those who are gravely serious, and that is so in Southnes, where Southnes also stand out, that there are 25% of the population of foreign berries. It's all complicated, making it very difficult. In my opinion it is very important that the government invest more in projects on the Southnes. A minister here mentioned a number of general procedures and spoke of him as having a good relationship with local government, which is well - known. I'd like to ask a minister if it stands to increase the number of public jobs in the area, get more information on this. [[The president calls.]] Also, whether a graffiti that lends credit is particularly looking at the territory.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. I mean, about the question of a graffiti, I don't know it, it's under the highest level. The secretary of transportation and rural government, and I readily admit that I am not well enough at home in whether a facility is particularly looking at this area. But it would be perfectly normal for the swinging economy that the South really are. Regarding the other question, about public work and the Southnes, there has been an increase in the labor force, the nature of a matter being added only to the Southnes, to the office there, in order to serve the number of unemployed. However, we have also been talking about a project that may not be intended directly to carry out public work on Southnes but will cause public work to grow on the Southnes. It is a task to ensure security, those sentenced to safety. It's been at the hands of the locals. We're preparing a new legislation that will partially take this back to the state and that will work in good cooperation with rural society, with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education. Part of this has been the development of specific agricultural resources for these individuals and has had discussions with Smokejanestown for this. The nature of the case will be the product of a range of 203/430 jobs in the region. We have also been in a conversation with Keili about setting up a special course or conducting a learning program for individuals like this, but the extracurricular development would be considerable from the construction of this house - to - house planning, although it may not be until the next year that it would take full time. But the funds have been assured for her as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u53	A respectable president. At any rate, that is the opinion of the one listed here that a building agency has to look particularly at the territory for loans for upbuilding projects. As I say, looking to the future is the natural responsibility of our administration. It's been a long time with us Icelanders that we're short-minded and have trouble planning long-term. It is our weakness, and we must improve in that area. In his story came the highest. Ministers elsewhere spoke of many of the government's actions that are subject to increasing their jobs to cope with the unemployment we are dealing with. One of these was a new law on sharing loans to stimulate the housing market. So natural, as one Icelander has not missed, a number of transport projects on the agenda, and a project that produces work has been developed. The minister also mentioned earlier at the sports conference, where there are jobs. I wanted to hear more from the minister how he would react to them. Now the government is bringing a number of operations, and society, and somehow everyone on board is trying to cool off. But then I ask the minister: " How does he feel about the reactions and actions of banking agencies? At least you can hear it in many places, and you can also see it in the books of the Federal Bureau of Money, that loans have made a significant contribution during the past few months. [[The president calls.]] I just want to hear the minister's opinion of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u54	A respectable president. Yeah, I can say with what. A senator, as I told you earlier, in this area, Southnesin. It is very special in that there have been overexcited swings. Not long ago, the tourist service was in full growth, there was considerable growth pain in the area, and then we are down to the bottom now. But because of him. A senator said we'd get that kind of virus back, and this would happen again, and then I'd like to believe we're not dealing with a virus like this often on the person's way of life. History shows, at least, that this was the case. So, complete closure of the country, the only decent portal into the country that normally creates a very high level of activity in the Southnes - I want to believe that it's quite a distance away from me and then. A senator will experience that again. But we should be prepared for anything in this regard. Hv. A senator specifically mentions the athletic movement, and we have been in conversation with it, me and the highest. Secretary of education and culture. There is a planned bill into the council to meet the costs of sports while all the activities are down, for it is of enormous importance, not only as the workplace, but also a great social function for all of us, especially for children and young people, as is known, not just here on earth but throughout the world. Since then, I have not felt that the banking institutions are responsible enough for this storm. We can best see in the way they have contributed to their growth reduction. They have naturally been taking certain steps in freezing property loans, etc, but the increasing numbers of the Federal Bank have not been getting past the whole system, and it is a matter of thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u55	Mr. President. This unemployment crisis with Icelanders now abuses people. Tourism companies are badly affected, and the communities that have built up their employment and investments around it, which I specifically mention Southnes. The restaurant, cultural and art and sports work have likewise lost part of their income, but for some reason these members have only a fraction of the special government's efforts to establish. I must say, the reason for that situation is not quite clear to me. Perhaps a minister can shed some light on it. If this heavy unemployment persists, we know that it promotes a wide range of long - term social problems. The effects of long - term loss of income can follow people for many years, not only negative effects on property development and increased debt, but also directly related to loss of income and loss of health, both mental and physical. Therefore, it was painful to see the government contribute funds now, since the contracts health insurance with psychologists are not financed, as the General requested last time. It's a strategy of the highest degree. A social minister should, in my opinion, fight for with his mouth and throat because the people in the most vulnerable position in these difficult times simply need such a statement in the government. In general, the current reason sheds light on a key problem. V.E.G. Social Affairs is responsible for efforts to help people be unemployed, but ministers of other lawsuits have tools to deal with the underlying problem, the tools to reduce unemployment by supporting the most effective countermeasures. Kristrún Frostadóttir, an economist, is amongst those who have criticized that a large proportion of the capitals that have been circulating have slipped into the real estate market instead of supporting the people who have suffered the largest loss of income. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister here how he used himself in the government work to correct the underlying problems that maintain this high unemployment and its negative consequences.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u56	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this thought and inquiry. I share a lot in her approach to this, first of all about the social problems and what chronic unemployment can lead to, but also because we've seen that both culture and sports, and some of the restaurants, they're coming to meet him now, have fallen apart. I believe that because of the speed of implementation of the huge supportive order, it is really honest to say that nothing unusual is that we overlook some groups during some period of time. At least I've felt that we were even. in this business of the restaurant, the Minister of Education has come here, it has been achieved to some extent by the artists with the bill shown, we are preparing operations with the athletes, all to try to fill up the holes in those who have not worked for. Naturally, in the politics, we can debate whether it's gone far enough and if it should go a little further, etc. But we've all been trying to follow this way. Hv. A senator came to see if the funds were directed sufficiently to those who had truly lost their livelihood. I'd like to say that since 80 billion survived unemployment, we have naturally brought considerable money to people who have certainly lost their income. The contribution process made a lot of it because she made it possible for the person to keep all his income, but it also did not impair the right to income connections and other things if people then lost their job. I have given tremendous importance to the fact that the unemployment relief system is fulfilling its responsibility in this regard and that social activities always follow the government's packages. [[The president calls.]] It has been accomplished to some extent, but it is the same with everything else in life that can be better if necessary. [[The president calls.]] Social Affairs will never say, "I've already got all the money I need to hold on to every delicate group because it's just not right.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u57	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers answers but would like to put in one additional question: Would a minister want to see the government have more endurance on the part-change rather than limit the conditions and, on the other, leave it no longer valid? I would appreciate the answer to that question. Otherwise, I want to look at the students and their plight. V.E.G. A minister has promoted the education of people on unemployment record. Of course, that's reasonable, but the government does not seem to have examined the other side of the coin, i.e. the right of students working until the crisis and who had paid for their employment insurance and who are not now entitled to support it. They're working people in school. It is largely family members who depend on their rights and rights, and no member of the government seems to answer their call. What happens in this situation? People can't support themselves and get out of school and can't get a job because they don't have a job. This, of course, is unacceptable. Mr. President. This is a position the government has put these people in, and I'm asking the highest. Minister: What is he using here?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u58	A respectable president. With regard to the first question, it is true that we have used ourselves for study, but we also have more room to study along with unemployment. In high school and college, it is possible to engage in 40% of studies now without cutting the right to unemployment. A study organized at a time, which may include up to 22 units, is permitted to practice without compromising the right to unemployment. We have taken some steps, but the problem is that when such measures are being taken, the searcher is always working together, and the student is on the other side, and as soon as the systems are assembled, a grey area is formed, how far we should go in this relationship. However, for the partial improvements and extensions to narrow and shorten. I can't answer that question, but I hope I can take it if I get a speech back here at the end, Mr President, or if the President might lose his clock like the Mother's Amendment, then I can add.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u59	President is very cheap on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u60	A respectable president. We'll discuss the workforce and the Covid. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs. It is now apparent that 4,000 people have been working for a year or longer on unemployment. How many people are falling off unemployment, having been on them for 30 months, and falling off? What happens to these people? In most cases, when a partner has minimal income, he or she gets nothing from the social improvement system. It's the highest. Minister has already done something about, e.g. the rehabilitation system at the insurance clinic so that these people can make their way into the rehabilitation business and then be helped to study or work with strength? What's the vision? This is so important, these are the worst in our society. Then there's the other one I want to roll up. Today, 11 people were identified with Covid-19, of whom there were eight extra contours. It's a very serious matter, as the situation is. I'd like to ask a minister about New Zealand who's seen to stop flights and stop the virus from getting back in. We know that now our problem is that the virus gets back into the country from outside, which is causing the biggest problem. Does he not agree with me in that we can make sure that we don't get the virus back into the country, it's better now that we just shut the country down and put everyone on the border so that we can open shops, open restaurants and bars and get things back started? We just end the country like it was done in New Zealand? Then we'll probably get the country's economy back on, and then we could start focusing on it, when the vaccine comes, to open up, and to get the tourism started.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. First of all, how many are falling off the hook, how many are finishing their rights. I don't have the exact numbers in the railing, but it's generally the next year that there are about 100 people every month, at the beginning of the year, who are completing their rights based on how the country is now in the system. It is increasing in the year and it begins to reach 200 when we arrive in the latter part of the year, provided that none of these individuals go to school either, we are planning 3,000 education options, or work markets, etc. Experience shows that there is always one proportion of this group that has some other strategy, we're opening up some study strategy, and more. But I can get these analyses to the point. A senator after this discussion. They're all there because we've been mapling this thing with our societies and the social services in the country. For the rehabilitation system; yes, we always add until we can catch up with people who have been long - term unemployed. We expect it to continue next year. We're putting in increased funding there because we want those individuals who for some reason become involved in this system to be rehabilitated. But we can always criticize whether we are doing enough there, and I trust that we will. The senator will do so, in due course, and keep the government in place. When it comes to precipitating in general, I think that the way we've gone, which is some kind of mixed way, was the most rational because it's about to dry out there to get us a vaccine. It's not much of a virus to come into this country now, it's a virus that's inside the community. If we close all of this, we can round it here within the country, normal, but unlike New Zealand, our national economy is more based on tourism and tourists, so it's always a line dance. I feel that the government, especially the trinkets, is in cooperation with the government, has handled matters wisely. [[The president calls.]] But it's about patience, and you're getting fucking tired of this-- my apologies, my love. President. You're getting pretty tired of this. There's no difference between the Minister of Social Affairs, huh? A candidate or public when it is time to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u62	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I also want to ask what happened here about those who have fallen out of unemployment because they have not accepted another job, I can't remember how many there are. The question is, is it because they could not do the job they offered? And what happens to these people? There must be some reason why people refuse to take a job that is offered to them. Then I'd also like to reiterate that if we hadn't gotten this virus from outside the country for a summer then we wouldn't have all the camp shut down now, then it wouldn't be that way if we hadn't made it into a camp, a restaurant, a bar, and everything -- it wouldn't be all shut if we hadn't made sure the virus couldn't get into the country. So I say, why don't we take care of it once and for all, and make sure that no virus enters the land? It'll only attack the virus that's already here, and we'll get it down, and then it'll set off right here in the country, and then we can start asking about the tourism. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u63	A respectable president. The senator wondered why people do not take the job. The person standing here may not be able to answer that question, but for some reason the agency has had more than 200 people in mind for refusing to take jobs that are in the workplace. As a result, 80 have been restored. Of course, a person should take a job, but if he does, he will lose his rights because he is thinking of helping the individual to bridge the gap from one job to another. Then about the second request for the virus, I don't think we're losing a lot of virus in the country right now. It is mainly a virus in the community. We've had a considerable amount of disease prevention to overcome it. I think we've made a wise way out of this. It's really easy to stand here and say, "Come on, let's go." I'm sure I'll do it as a minister. [[The president calls.]] When you look back and across the lawsuit, there's no doubt something you would have liked to do differently, something you would have wanted to avoid doing or not do. I think it's normal. But I think everybody was trying to deal with their best abilities and best sense in a very special situation in New York City.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u64	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for this fine discussion that has been about employment status, action that has been undertaken to support jobseekers and so speculative about the cause of unemployment, how we can reduce it, both in a short term and in the long term. I have felt that the discussion was very good from all categories and exemplary. At the end of the day, though, I would like to make clear that the effects the virus has had on tourism, employment, the food sector, the cultural sector, sports life, and other factors that truly lead to increasing unemployment, will not be easy to eliminate this unemployment, or will be significantly effective in reducing it until the virus becomes less effective, whether with a vaccine or another vaccine. We're going to have to go through this as a nation, both businesses, people, and everyone, waiting for a vaccine that can help us get our community started. I think it's been coming through in this discussion, as in the community all over, that everyone's getting tired of the situation. Everyone has become a dog of this condition, and we're all being bitten. The only way in this is to do what Iceland and I have always done well, i.e. trying to stick together. They're trying to get through this, because we know that when the virus goes down, the sun will rise again. I'm sure it's shorter than we think, and it's faster to build itself than many others because we're pretty powerful. We are very busy, and we are ready to deal with situations. That's what history shows us so well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u65	A respectable president. I'm here for a bill on business secrets. This bill aims to strengthen the legal protection of business secrets against their executives and to help them search for their legal rights and simple institutions. The bill is in full agreement with the emphasis on a innovation policy for Iceland that Icelandic regulations promote competitiveness and innovation and that the ownership rights of companies and pioneers of ideals and trade secrets will be protected completely. Hv. A financial and business committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Dr. Daði Ólafsson by the Department of Business and Development, Halldór Oddsson of the International Union of Iceland and the Steinunn Pálmadóttir from the Industrial Association. There was talk of it from the Allied Union of Iceland and the Society of Industrialism. Then the commission also received a memo from the Department of Employment and Development. The bill is implementing the European Parliament and Council Directive (EU) 2016/943, thereby protecting confidential information about expertise and business information against illegal development, use and publication. In addition, there is a greater degree of criminal protection than in the current law and removal of the Commission of funding, use and its exposé. Other aspects of the bill's content and objective are referred to in a series of articles. The changes made in most parts are technical and not intended to have material influence. A respectable president. I'm going to save us from reading the changes up, and there's no way they can until we make a document with the case. According to the above, the greater part contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes proposed in the special Senate document. Under the committee, Óli Björn Kárason, chairman of the Committee, Brabbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Sigmundur the son of Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, Jón the Steindór of Valdimarsson, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Willum Þórsson, and Harðardóttir Görrótir. A respectable president. It's not a complicated matter, i.e. We didn't get many reviews about it, and it seems that there is a general sense of pleasure, and people seem to feel that it is necessary to protect their minds and business secrets. And as I said before, that's what we feel about our innovation policy. I'm going to find out, though, that in the panel discussion, there was a little talk about the penalty frame. Not everyone agreed on his importance or how far to go. It should be kept in mind, however, that, of course, there can be considerable financial interests at such times. I'm also going to guess, a respectable president, that we just wondered if it was really clear whether anyone could possibly be involved in knowing business secrets without having it in mind. It should be kept in mind, then, with regard to the penalty frame, that such factors as deciding whether to punish, whether to act, or to what extent to sin, and to what consequences it may have.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u66	Mr. President. I was one of the members of the committee at work. The Economic and Business Committee, which was not included in any other part of the Committee. Reasons for this may be a little complicated and difficult to explain, but what is involved is a limit to people's freedom of expression. Nevertheless, this is a limit to the rightness of expression in view of the information called a business secret that affects the financial interests of an enterprise. In some cases it may simply turn out that companies have spent a lot of money studying and developing new discoveries, developing business practices, or other forwardings, and it is harmful for them to realize whether there are certain third parties or in general in the media. Then it may be normal to say: "Okay, we understand that there are limits to freedom of expression in certain cases. These occurrences, as they occur in the bill, include: if you are in some kind of legitimate pursuit. And what the bill does, which is good, is that it creates a framework for legitimate use and unveiling business secrets. This is very important because in some cases it could be something about law or just that someone might have along, as states in a-team 3. gro, independent discovery or creation have come to understand in some way the same idea. Clearly, then, it is not something that is normal to punish. All right. Then there's the other side of this, non-sanction, usage, or unveiling, and that may be the primary focus of the bill, i.e. if someone has obtained information in an illegal way and decides to use it, or if someone has, e.g. Signing an agreement not to use information, but it violates an agreement and thereby exposes business secrets. Section 5. this takes on a special situation when a person has reached the information in an illegal way and uses it or exposes it in an unsound way in order to reveal it. It's just fine, but it turns out there's an incident that goes between us and needs to be considered. There are, for example. a case where someone is informed of secrets in any way that would fall under the definition of lawlessness, but not of intent. Likewise, if there is any use or exposure within a grey field, e.g. since a customer associated with a business person accidentally receives information, etc. You're right. paritaprevir The director of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, however, said here in the past, would think that he would take such an attitude into consideration. Courts generally have this flexibility in their authority of decision, just to take into account the circumstances. Nevertheless, what I am concerned about is that throughout the years there have been many cases, whether in the United States, Europe, or elsewhere, where confidentiality has been broken in one way or another, but in a way that has been so much in the grey zone that it could easily be reasoned that it should be a permissible and enlightened business secret has been too restricted to freedom of expression. However, the case has been assessed in the other way as an illegal revelation in a business secret and has been judged more strictly on the basis of it. I had a list of a few cases like that, but I don't have it on me right now. So I ask people to look it up. There are some famous cases like this. The bill is pretty good, for it has some kind of equilibrium between having limits on people's expression freedoms in specific cases and allowing people to be illuminated in certain cases. Nevertheless, it is true that the fines could become too high or that imprisonment would be used in a way that is basically unfair and unnatural. First of all, I find it very dangerous that people can be judged to be incarcerated for expression. I don't feel like I belong in a democracies community. It is true that there are other laws that have similar laws, e.g. law on insults with national leaders and similar. I don't think that's the case, either. Of course, it is entirely permitted to offend national leaders. I feel that this limitation is even more natural than that. More important than defending the interests of national leaders who are offended is defending what can be revealed and concerned about people's very normal interests. Still, basically it is a matter of finding a balance. In the bill, balance is achieved by balance between interests and the consequences of the punishments that may be exposed. It is too much to tell such information to imprisoned people. It's only natural to have financial fines and natural to be looked at, as in fact, in the bill, that they are in harmony with the size. It's just perfectly normal. This, of course, is a complicated way to explain something simple. I'm not in favor of this penalty frame, i.e. The incarceration. I think she's offering a real danger home. It is not entirely in harmony with the idea of freedom of expression in a democracies community. Although it may be some sort of non-secure gathering, usage, and unveiling of business secrets, as indicated in Article 4. The bill, such a violation should have its primary economic consequences, as is shown very often in the confidentiality of the subject. It is essentially a custom to make such a agreement, both in this country and in other parts of the world. I would have preferred that this prison song be eliminated. Other than that, the balance on the bill is pretty good. There's quite a variety of factors there. This is a limit to freedom of expression, but there are cases where limits to a certain degree are normal in democracies. It's almost to the right place, but it's going a little too far.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u67	Mr. President. I bring here an opinion of a bill for a medical device from the greater part of the welfare committee. The committee has discussed the matter, as indicated by the committee's opinion, and has brought in visitors and reviews, as well as reviews of the case during the previous council and that the committee took somewhat on the matter then. The bill suggests that a new total medical legislation provided in the EU will be implemented according to the European Union Regulation 2017/745 on the medical devices, and the EU 2017/746 directive on a medical device for diagnostic purposes in a bottle. The objective of the bill is to ensure the quality and safety of public and patient safety equipment and to ensure that production, maintenance and use of medical equipment is in accordance with the best knowledge at any given time. Additional requirements for quality and safety of medical equipment are set, more requirements for clinical trials, increased monitoring and follow-up of medical equipment on the market and management of the reporting parties is being made to improve the quality of the procedure. The review of the Committee established a view that the need for a change of 1 mg. Section 3. the bill so that direct words would show that the import of medical equipment would fall under the range of value of the bill. In this regard the cases where importers place them on the market for medical devices from countries outside the European Economic Area. Sets the more part to expand the force of the law in such a way that it also applies to the import of medical equipment. The Committee presented the opinion that there would be a clear distinction between the role of law - abiding authority and the role of the informed party. In view of the majority, it is sufficiently recommended for the role of the EMA and of the informed person. Six. The bill is proposed to play the role of the competent authority in the understanding of 101. gr. Medical and medical regulations and 96. gr. The medical requirements for diagnostic procedures in the bottle. At the same time, the main projects of the Agency are listed in a detailed way. Twenty-seventh. The bill and the Regulation are specifically discussed with the informed person, role and responsibility as well as the procedure to follow the appointment. There is no indication that the EMA is acting as an informed person or modalities. Thus, in view of the greater part, there is no need to respond to this view. It was also found that it was desirable to specifically recommend the confidentiality of the personnel of the Marketing Authorisation. The bill suggests that the Agency has broad sources and can include the Agency. The need for manufacturers, distributors and immigrants to provide information on their activities. This information may contain important confidential information that, if mismanaged, can cause great harm to the above. The importance of handling such information properly depends on the viewpoint of a major part. However, the majority believe that the regulations and regulations contain sufficient regulations for silence in this case, such as X section administrative, No. 37/1993. It'll hide 2. The bill includes the regulations, and thereby the regulations of the 109th chapter. Medical regulations will be legal. In view of the greater part, these measures ensure sufficient confidentiality of public staff. It means that employees of the Agency are forbidden to take advantage of or take advantage of information on the facts that are to be concealed and that they have become aware of in their job or in their profession, whether by chance or not. A break in confidentiality may also involve the failure of an employee to take reasonable measures to avoid being exposed to silent information. There are also the laws of confidentiality and loyalty required by government officials, as measured by Article IV. a law on the rights and duties of the servants of the state. In addition, concern over the management of the Agency for monitoring and decision-making was presented by the Committee on the increased authority of the Agency. However, in view of the majority, no evidence has been made that the Agency does not have the ability to deal with the tasks proposed by the National Competent Authority. The greater part, though, is the importance of taking care of the administrative procedures to promote legal and material rights decisions that contribute to the city's rights and rights to its citizens' rights and rights. There was also the view that there was a lack of counselling information for buyers of remakes or used medical equipment. The use of medical equipment is increasing within Europe, hospitals and institutions in this country have purchased recycled and/or used medical equipment from companies abroad, both within and outside Europe. A card has guidance from governments on the available license and data to be provided with such medical tools, such as the maintenance manual and the birth certificate of tools. In view of the greater part, it is important to ensure the safety of such devices and therefore contribute to a change of 17. the bill, that a minister will be permitted to expand the scope of Regulation in the manner of re-use of medical equipment. A respectable president. This is not merely a medical device, renovated, or reused, that turns between humans. This is true not only when these things are going to happen outside of the country but also in this country, that it is important, we believe, there are existing rules on which to deal with this and therefore this warrant is set in. 3 mg. Section 12. The bill is recommended that information and instructions for use on devices intended for use in the general population should be provided in Icelandic. The Commission concluded that such a requirement might be justified in the case of significant medical equipment being used in Iceland, but another may apply when considering less rare equipment. Translations and publications of such information were equal in the hands of foreign manufacturers, and there might be a risk that rigid information on Icelandic information in the case of limited use in Iceland could cause the manufacturer's interest in offering them on the Icelandic market to be limited. The majority point out that the 3rd verse includes the 6th paragraph. No. 16/2001, says that medical devices intended for use in the general population should be provided with information in this publication. This law has remained unchanged since the execution of the law on May 16, 2001. It is clear, therefore, that 3 mg. Section 12. The bill is reduced from that cloudless demand, i.e. that the information on medical devices is strictly free of information. The greater part of the claim that according to the bill, the principle is that information on the public's use of medicine is permitted to provide this information in another language. The above words suggest that it is especially in use in this country or that it may be rare. However, a minister is authorized to set a regulation on further implementation of the provision, including rules in the language of the user instructions intended for use by the public. For the Committee, comments were made on the 3rd mg. Count 9. The bill. It says that the medical facility can be removed from the market despite CE markings if it is identified as having dangerous properties. The comments suggested that it was unclear what is in the concept of a dangerous quality. There was also the view that food would need to be available or that medical equipment has been shown to have dangerous properties before it would be removed from the market. In view of the greater part, the standard must be explained in the light of other aspects of the bill. In an explanation of the 9th grade. The bill says that the Agency's access to the market medical equipment is an implementation of Part 3 in VII. section of the Regulation. The authority given to Act 3. section 38 of the Regulation is also implemented. The bill. It recommends the authority of the government to cancel, recall, take the market, or ban the sale, or issue of an device, or demand alternative measures to bring medical devices in line with the requirements required for the device. Before addressing the authorities for which the administration is to be undertaken, the procedure recommended in Act 3 should be followed. section of the regulations as well as IV. and Section V of the Safety and Official Marketing Authorisation, No. 134/1995, as well as a government law. This suggests that the majority of the items involved are regulations 3 mg. Count 9. The bill is, in fact, the same as found in 3 mg. Section 5. No. 16/2001. The bill therefore recommends a more detailed procedure than the current law. The Commission established that the requirement of Article 17 is unclear. the bill that the maintenance of a medical device should be performed by authorised professionals who have the necessary knowledge to carry. The bill's report shows that in view of the wide range of medical devices and consequently the requirements for their maintenance, it would be impossible to explain in a more precise way the requirement of necessary professional knowledge. Such a requirement must be determined by the specific medical device. There is also the agreement between the 17th chapter and the 17th. Regulation No. 934/2010, on a medical device. This point agrees with the report. In accordance with the surgeon's recommendations, the majority stress that the Ministry of Health will immediately initiate a check on quality and central registration of implanted medical equipment instead of electronic records in each medical facility and clinic, comparable to the files discussed in Article 8. legal on surgeons and public health, No. 47/2007. Such a list may be used for monitoring, and when necessary, the interests of patients or society should be guided. They will be consulted from neighboring countries, where such databases and systems have been available for many years. There's a lot of discussion on this subject, and I think I know there's at least a few questions. some additional comments from members of the committee on this point that may be presented during the discussion. I think the way that has gone in the bill is acceptable, but it is very important that the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with surgeons and public health, immediately implements the work to see if there is any further progress in this and create this database. Such databases already exist at least In one of the northern countries, there are precedents. This may be the case, and that is why the committee does not suggest the way a surgeon's office suggests, that there are other factors to consider, and perhaps more extensive consultations, that must have before such a change of law is made. So there is no separation of change, but this clear message to the Ministry is in the committee's opinion. With the reference to the above, the greater part suggests that the matter will be agreed with the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Under countless printed page. Councilmen Helga Vala Helgadóttir, President Oólfur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándótir Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir and Vilhjálmur of the Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u68	Mr. President. I come up here to briefly explain the warnings I have to my approval of a committee that was presented here. paritaprevir That is exactly what Þór Gunnarsson the Ólafur of Gunns did and the review of an official surgeon who was repeated at the end of October. is for the central medical database. The review of a surgeon's office in Iceland, which has the most comprehensive knowledge of this category, gives a clear indication of the need to set up some form of central registration, and says in the review, with the permission of the president: ▪... the surgeon's office rights to replace electronic records with every medical facility and clinic with a central registration that will be set up by the office. The land surgeon's office will be permitted to use the registry for follow-up and when necessary for the patient's or community interests. According to the surgeon general's suggestion: However, a sleep clinic would still monitor the registration of the base. Enrollment would have to be considered on an individual basis and a list of information, e.g. those who have been implanted a specific medical tool. Why this? Yes, because if a central file cannot be discussed, it might need, e.g. to take measures that need to be taken quickly, when dealing with defective medical equipment, to seek out all personnel and institutions, health institutions in Iceland, who have bought and used resources in their jobs. Thereafter, these files need to be searched in these specified organisations. It is probable that there is complete access to the accuracy of the registration, but let's hope that it is very accurate in these organisations and institutions. However, there is a need to figure out which patients have implanted. When discussing important issues in society, it may be very slow to have the system in this way. A central database or surgeon's warrant for a central database is defined in several areas and is defined in the strictly legality of the surgeon's office. That's why I'm making this note of my agreement with the Commission opinion, because I don't see why the welfare committee and lawgiver don't add this small task to the list that can be put in the central database in the law. There are several figures on the source of such information at the centre of the surgeon's office. We've had some jobs before. The welfare committee added information to this list, e.g. recently involved in brain malfunction. It is important that such a central registration can be addressed quickly and definitely, with a much more desirable option, and the surgeon's office speaks of it, and remains a living registration, i.e. syncording is the same as in the ground. The cost is discussed in the review of a surgeon's office. It is said to be a new project and to ensure financing, but one way for financing could be that part of the monitoring fee that the Agency will collect for these devices, a project to be conducted by a surgeon to operate this central foundation. That's my captain. I would have found it more difficult to believe that a welfare committee would just finish this rather than send this to the Commission, because the welfare committee is part of the Lawgiver and should be able to suggest such simple changes as this. This is one of the letters of a surgeon's law. But no more was involved, and I don't think so, especially since the surgeon's office has repeated this express request. It would have been easy to carry out. Other than that, I agree that this matter will succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u69	President. I'm glad the bill was approved here at the council Hall. It's a very important matter. However, it would have been advisable to raise the pay to 35%, and the same should be done for Icelandic films. I like it, I put green, but I stress the importance of Iceland being competitive in this respect, both for the music industry and for the film industry, and in order to raise it to 35%.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u70	Mr. President. I traced this issue to a talk earlier, and it is for good reason. There are legitimate reasons for such a case. However, since this poses the threat of being imprisoned for communicating, it is only natural to sit by in this matter and, especially, to vote against a penalty frame. This case could have been very good. They could have handled the natural concerns that exist regarding business secrets and other matters correctly. But since the line of punishment is so wide, Pirata can't agree with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u71	President. The subject of the bill is the implementation of two directives of the European Parliament and the Council. Although I like to know that legislation regarding medical equipment will be updated, which is necessary because of the fast changes in the timeline and because it is important to ensure patient safety, etc., I made some comments in the process and also made comments in comments that I didn't feel were thoroughly reviewed. This mainly involves this central database and the preferred medical quality system. In the processing of the committee, it was a bit finished - how to figure it out in neighboring lands. However, in terms of civil rights, I would have liked to have had a careful treatment with these factors; also regarding the dilation of the Agency's prescribing information on monitoring, etc. That's why I'm embarrassed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u72	Mr. President. We here vote for new therapeutic laws, which are important legal procedures and important for taking in Icelandic rights in this way. However, it is the provision of the database - it is a recommendation from the Department of Health for the Ministry and the Ministry. Health Minister to consider this matter carefully, end with an important matter. It may sound as if it were legal to add one piece to one law or one letter to one law. The question is a little more complicated than that, so the suggestions are not made in the form of the changes mentioned in the talks below.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u73	President. I recommend a bill to set up a penance grant. The bill is part of the government's efforts to reduce the damage caused by the pandemic crown virus and create a powerful resistance afterward. The bill suggests a new strategy, which includes a direct grant from a state fund designed to exploit operators to maintain minimal activity during the outbreak's impact. Tensions are intended for May of next year, and are thought as a direct continuation of the recently legalized income-gain levels. The bill suggests that operators who have experienced at least A 60% drop in Almanak's month between November 2020 and May 2021, compared with the same almanac month of 2019, can be made up of government funds to meet the cost of the month's operating expenses. As a result of a pandemic crown virus or the government's efforts to restrict its spread, it is suggested that the volume of resistance can be up to 90% of the cost of operating during the same period, although it will never exceed the payload during that period. The maximum strength may be 400 Thoust. K. the value per month if the income loss is between 60 and80% and a maximum of 2 million. K. a month, but 500,000 k. per month and up to a maximum of 2.5 million. K. if you have a loss of income of more than 80%. In order to meet the singles and smaller operators who had little or no business costs during the period because of the epidemic's minimal activity, it is authorized to set cost of remuneration in the same almanak month's tax returns because of the management year 2019. In addition, candidates need to meet all other conditions of the bill, the main ones are that the employer has a complete and unlimited tax service in Iceland, that his income has been at least 500 you. K. from January 1, 2020 to the end of October 2020, that he is on public fees due to one day at the end of the last year and that he has submitted certain data to the tax for an application date. It is mandatory that the operator has not been removed or bankrupt. As for closeness concentrations and revenue levels, both application and decision-making procedures are suggested through electronic consultations with the tax. Then it is suggested that the decisions made by the tax be brought charges to the head tax committee. This case has been prepared in the administration system, i.e. if the case is legal, the government should be prepared to implement the law very quickly. This means that we should be able to accept applications electronically, approximately directly after the law is accepted. It is based on the tax that the application can be received monthly, for the previous month, and for the comparison or reference to the loss of income. There is hope that the application will be completed in approximately One week provided, of course, that the criteria are met, including the terms of data submission. A respectable president. The resources proposed in the bill create a presupervisability for the business party and should allow them to maintain minimal activity and to ensure management at the end of the game. It can be assumed that the funding, along with other government economic measures, has a positive effect on economic activities and contributes to the increase in government income, which partly offset the cost of the operation. The overall impact of this bill on the state funds is quite uncertain because it is unknown in advance how many operators will meet all the criteria of the bill and apply for strength. It is estimated, however, that the overall impact of boxing on government funds can never exceed 19.8 billion dollars. during the seven-month period of selection. It is a kind of peak of potential impacts, in our view, and it would be more likely that the estimated cost estimate for what is likely to be paid up to concentration will be somewhat lower. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u74	Mr. President. Now this bill is another step in trying to cope with the economic breakdown that is going on and quite good as such and only positive. However, there has been a persistent problem in both this and in the cut-off strengths, with a specific percentage, in this case that 6% reduction is required to be made by individuals or lawyers so that they can expect to receive this strength. The problem arises when people may have 59% contractures. That's something I've been getting a lot of reports of since the income dropback levels were approved, including the U.S. enterprises which have had 36% contractions and therefore could not achieve a income drop-off level that was from 40% to that in the streets. So it is not difficult to create a linear connection between more contracting and more support. It's not complicated. You can set the lower limit, you can set the upper limit, you can have this linear in between. Instead, it has the highest. A minister in a series of shocks submitted a bill supported by stepfalls. I'd like to ask, "Why do you always use step - ups that leave very many companies, more than would be needed, when you could have a normal linear growth on the need for more support? "
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u75	A respectable president. In the bill on income loss levels, there were not many steps to be used but primarily by simple rules. But it was the council that stepped in and developed further. That doesn't change the fact that there is a legitimate question whether we can accept the peripheral effects. Here I must point out that the person who does not fully meet the requirements, including the extent of the income crisis, can count on other options. Of course, it is a question we cannot run away from, one that needs to be taken into consideration, whether they want linear support or step - change, the goal to quit support. When has the loss of income been low enough to prevent public involvement in business or official support? At 60%, i.e. less than 60%, let's say by 50%, although holding half of our income and having them both had the right to use after the events of a closing scholarship, depending on the occurrences of damages, it has also been possible to take advantage of the pay paid on public fees, depending on what happened, to get paid in the bank. If they quit their employees, they may have had the right to have the necessary support to make the notice deadline, etc. So it's not that I thought it was a matter of light. The senator, that those who fail to meet this particular requirement are simply out of the cold. [[The president calls.]] But the question is, What kind of payload is there? A senator would want linear support to disappear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u76	Mr. President. First, you may want to mention that there were two steps in the income management bill. That was the zero step, i.e. everyone who had less than 50% by the original bill, and then step up, all of whom had 50% or more. But those with 49.9% in the original bill were not to receive any support. We fixed it so it was 40% and then one more step, but I thought it was then, and I thought I could handle it at the time, which was actually a few weeks ago, that it wasn't a good way. It is true that some sort of cutting point may have to be chosen. I'm not sure how 60% was selected, but I'm pretty aware that choosing a particular number is always a problem, and usually best done by looking at the numbers. I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister can explain to me and to the Senate how the number 60% was chosen. I'm very interested in random numbers, and this figure is no less random than any other. It's just a number selected, unless, of course, there's some explanation. I also wondered, " Is there any particular reason to cut off those with a 59.9% drop of income from this supportive arrangement? ' It is true that some may look for, for example. banks with huge interests and other items while other companies are going to benefit from their income grants and hopefully come back to benefit from this. The question is, How is the limit defined? For who? For what group of companies? How is it determined who will benefit from such things, and who will not? I think it's a little too random and not logical enough why this particular cutting point was chosen, especially I fear very many companies will remain out in the cold, like the highest level. Minister called it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u77	A respectable president. I was referring to the council's taking sides on earlier steps, moving the criteria, and then a small market route for a discussion at the council, followed by this bill. What's the ide behind using 60%? I'm sure it's going down a little bit. To explain this, you need to refer to everything that has happened in the past. Then I'm specifically referring to it when we took e.g. is involved in paying off notices for an enterprise. We told last spring that the state wanted to support a living business, get into a house, reduce its activities to a great degree. We were going to support a company in their efforts to keep our heart rate going through the most difficult times, and together our actions were slightly tailored to that. Then we'll probably sit, after that business has taken advantage of all previous resources, with such fragrant companies that have adapted considerably to the situation. They've been helped to do that, to make a pay drop, to close scholarship, to make up for notice, etc. These are the companies we want to continue supporting, which have made such arrangements, and somewhere we must draw the line. A company who has said that he lost 30% of his income, well, I'm just saying: "It's my opinion that it's not a shock enough to justify taking taxes, taking into account all the other measures we've offered, and counseling it to maintain business and to cover company costs. [[The president calls.]] Well, it's after 70% of its income. Once it's lost more than half, I feel that the situation is different and that's where 60% of the criteria comes from.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u78	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. Of course, here is an important matter, a new remedy to meet the problems of the Korean epidemic as we know it. If you go over the report, it's suggested that those operators who have suffered at least a 60% loss of income may be given the strength to meet the cost of operating, and then the season is traced there, as shown in the report. I just wanted to review this ID on official fees at the highest level. Minister, how strict those conditions are. It is suggested that the closure concentration determined by the operator, due to the date of the calendar month and application, be reduced from the level of resistance. Subsidies for pay on notice and recruitment grants are delayed, and management costs are calculated in terms of financial height. There are a number of teams, Mr. President, drawn away in this process, which is somehow very important. I have been in good contact with a number of small operators in tourism and especially in the South Sea. They say it's way too complicated. They need to seek help to apply. Even books do not have enough knowledge, and they need to seek the help of lawyers. Is this returning what is required in this regard? In terms of the SRC it's always being aimed at the company's standard value. There the owner is not entitled to anything. Isn't that right for me, my highest? Secretary of finance, that the owners of the enterprise are actually being left entirely behind and when it comes to the interview they may just have lost these companies so that there will be no resistance? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u79	A respectable president. I understand that this may seem complicated, even for professionals. That's even. Because they have been changing over time, and they are many and varied, perhaps having different purposes for one another. However, I think we've done well in making all the information available, and now we've been opening a Web site called resistance.is where both the resources and the conditions can be read as well as the applications. I don't think there's just an example of how the operating system has responded in the past with the same short age as here and developed the same effective solution as in that case. For the monotonies, I took a brief look at my historical background that they need to be taken into account, such as cognizant. A senator points out. I have heard of such concerns as well, that since they have so greatly reduced their activities, they may fall apart in the conversation, including the discussion. due to the condition of this case. But as I traced it, it is authorized in this matter that the cost of operating is calculated in the same almanach month's tax returns due to 2019. This means, in effect, that it is possible to see how the work was at that time in terms of the staff number. If a person has taken himself off the list for the calculated remuneration in this current year because of circumstances, this is allowed to be done and should be met with this particular concern. Otherwise, I'd like to finally mention that I feel that there's something going over the garden and below in this discussion how incredibly extensive it is. [[The president calls.]] Well, we're talking about putting on another tens of billions of companies to support them through difficult times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u80	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers and I don't have to reduce the fact that this is an important resort, indeed. But it must also be helpful to those who truly need it. Well, I don't think that's been adequately studied. Let's see that when you're considering that these companies, you've got a lot of people down there, they're just gone. Therefore, it is difficult to determine the improvements in real time that would then have to be as the situation is here and now because it is very important to all of us that this company can have a strong resistance in its own time. This is the natural purpose of helping the companies to get started when the land opens and tourists arrive here. I don't think that's exactly what they were thinking. It's the word, like the highest. Minister mentioned here, way too complicated and all sorts of things are being withdrawn. People have had to sell possessions just to survive. It's subtracted, it's said to be goods, etc. I think this must be discussed very carefully with the Committee, and especially, like the Supreme Court. Minister of committees, to go to the monarchs who own these companies. They're excluded from those woodcutters. They must not include themselves. This can create various problems so that, in the end, as I said before, people could just give up, finally, when it comes to tourists coming back here, and we really need this resistance. My recommendation is that this will be specifically considered within the Committee, and particularly in the case of the cults. Certainly, it was called the highest. Ministers that there were certain possibilities, but when they were applying, they were applying in good faith, and it became evident that they were not entitled to the strength because they were the owner of the company and that they had to repay. [[The president calls.]] There's a lot of complications in this thing we have to simplify.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u81	A respectable president. We are here in the most economic depth we have experienced in 100 years. These are disasters for certain sectors, especially tourism, but a great many other articles at the same time. I must let it follow that, despite the great determination of the government to bridge this gap, which we believe is in the income of tourism companies and many others, with various resources, I could mention more than I have had in mind to say, the state of responsibility for Icelands is one example, etc. Then I think we still have to face the fact that it can't be our aim directly to see by public action that no one will feel the economic situation, that we somehow declare that our objective is to see that everyone is saved. We can't do that. Also, we cannot take the initiative to resolve all the issues of opinion that exist, and I may be specifically referring to the fact that the financial system has a very rich obligation as well as, in many cases, demands, landlords, and others, even shareholders, to take action. What did we see in Ikelanda? The staff helped cut the knot. In some way, all of us need to do something. Even if some will give up or will not see beyond this problem, I don't think that there's any evidence that we must have failed. Rather, we need to consider how many of us really do things, and then we can work out what we will do to reduce our economic depression by doing what was done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u82	Mr. President. As I mentioned earlier, the government in recent months, and kind of since this pandemic, has developed a set level of resources tailored to different types of companies in different positions. Apparently, some measures have been of little value. Others have produced bad motives. In one case, companies were actually paid to divulge their employees and, in certain cases, personnel who themselves had participated in cutting the knot, such as the highest level. Minister said here a minute ago. In turn, other measures have been very good. I mention the nonprobable part - improvement pathway, but I also had a positive effect and then the useful income - loss strength. In fact, the income dropout levels have not yet gone into effect, but I believe they will be useful. Yet, as with this matter, they were and became less useful than they could have been. That is, to some extent, because of what I described at the time in the talks on that matter, it is a basis for a step-by-step failure in progress. Instead of having the size of assistance in proportion to the need, you are trying to make an operation on a given number. This number, as reflected earlier, is not selected from an analysis of how many companies can benefit from but is primarily based on political assessments of whether companies with no more cut-offs or contracts than with any particular number should only be saved by other means. Okay, it's politics, but it's not my politics. I can show respect for people's stand, even though I feel that it is not very good or useful, especially when society is going through the worst economic recession in my lifetime at least and even longer. These are situations that are often referred to as, by the permission of the president, ◯prece majeur, i.e. Things beyond the human family. We are all trying to save what will be saved. In the past ten months, society's mutual power has been tremendous, and we also know that only freezing the economy would have never been possible because people will always need food, shelter, goods, and services. As a result, many companies have tried to do well in this situation. But if the goal of this bill is to provide a resistance, which sounds like a good hit, to escape from the bottom when it reaches the bottom, this resistance should not be limited to those who have an evil mind crossing a certain target line. We know that the situation is bad in many places and that it is quite different according to events. It is normal to consider how bad it is rather than just building on three steps; zero level is up to 60%, with a set of income up to 60% means that you will have no support in this process, the first level is from 60-80%, and the second step is over 80%. During the past few weeks, after asking about the income drop-down, I have heard from a variety of companies who have been just below 40% of their limits and are therefore not expected to have the levels of losing their income. In one case a company had a 36% income drop which, in that case, means that one more rain day in June could have put them over the goal line and they had the right to these revenues. The companies I've been hearing from have often been unable to resign from their employees and let the government pay for them. These are people and businesses who did not necessarily meet every requirement for a final grant or another on this level of resources established by the government. I'm going to let me mention some of the examples I've received. In a number of cases, I've been asked to look after anonymous people, but I'll just describe the circumstances so that we can figure them out because when we talk about the operators, it sounds so extreme. It sounds like something that doesn't matter. We have to realize that there are people behind this, in one case a man with a meal business that had a considerably more than 40% revenue but because of the epidemic, he decided to open up another restaurant on the same social security number to try to save what could be saved at the possible cost. But because it was run on the same social security number, he was left with a sore forehead and no longer had the right to earn a income. Another company has been dancing with these boundaries, mainly because they jumped up and tried to pitch everything in order to keep everything going. But when it came to it, they were only within the limit required. Another company in town had a shrink of more than 78% for one month, and over the year, the numbers were always negative. But when all was taken up, the overall outcome in October was not bad enough for them to be entitled to one of these supportive measures. I can give you other examples. I can also talk about people who run their own social security number and have fallen between their ships and their docks. Many companies are in the exact position of having a huge number of employees at work, and with 90% of the company's expenses being on the job costs, they are trying to do what they can to avoid breaking up employees, they don't have the right to resign to the government's expense. And even if they had the right to do so, they might not have, just for moral reasons. Thus, it is a real problem, and we know that the resources do not have perfect results. We have a perfect understanding that everything will never be saved. Many companies will go to the head of this down cycle, in this crisis, and many companies have already done so. But I don't think it's acceptable that it's actually using a step-down approach to rule out some companies because they were just below the limit. It would be possible to build a reasonable method that would increase the extent of support as it becomes greater. Maybe we'd put some lower limit in a relationship, who they'd be, I don't know. You'd always have to pick a number if that was the case. 20%, 30%? In a typical year's trip, it can be expected that an enterprise's income can be drawn together by 20 to 30% without any extreme circumstances. But in the face of even a 30% loss of income, especially when the situation is far beyond what mankind has power over, it is perfectly normal for us to try to show it more understanding and to increase just the extent of support, as I have said before, in proportion to the need. In particular, this should not be done in a way that punished those who had been able and prudent to try to survive in this situation. A company that ran to and tried to expand, do something new, and add to the situation should not be the exception of support if they need it, just because they tried to do something good. I'm not saying we should help everybody. Some companies do better than before. Some companies are in such a business that their interests have either been replaced or improved. Similarly, many companies have minor recessions. If our goal is to keep the other companies going by these measures, we must be natural and consistent with them, that we do not create steps that are not based on the absolute analysis of what is the real problem but that depend on the political judgment of the Supreme Court. A minister, and especially that they were not designed so that all could gather below the step and wish that they had only got one more rain day because the company might have saved. It is irresponsible to do this in this way. I just want to say it right now. In many parts of the Icelandic law, stages are used. In some places, they are only better than in other places, but in most places, they are in great need. It's a tendency I think it explains because someone thinks it's simpler. But what could possibly be a simpler but simple straight line, Mr. President? We can completely increase the strength to some extent in nonlinear terms. We can do this so that they will be significantly increased as the need is greater. You can go outside a straight line. Such complications can be taken into consideration. But saying that steps are more natural and more justified, even more reasonable, than the direct line, that's just not true. It's far from being true, and this falsehood isn't just some math subject. It's the reality of a lot of companies in Iceland we have, a company that needs our help, could be getting it if we had just drawn a line instead of drawing two steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u83	Mr. President. It is clear that many companies and homes need dynamic and direct action next year. Large, bold steps must be taken immediately that contribute to commercial development and that as many companies can share in the necessary growth of future losses. We here deal with a bill on standing up, and it's certainly the efforts of the government to meet the problems we all face together, and I don't think I'm going to belittle it. Now, the bill was distributed last night, so that there has not been much room to resolve the matter properly. They'll be waiting for coverage at the moment. A financial and business committee I know will take care of and discuss thoroughly. However, at this point there are some things worth paying attention when watching the bill. I'm thinking of starting with a little meditation. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr here, where he was talking about stages and linear falls. I find much in his language to be of great interest and thought - provoking whether it is possible to look into the matter from that point of view. Of course, no system is perfect. The current step change, of course, has more than one cut points in the bill, than by making this linearity, it may be possible to reduce the number. Admittedly, there would have to be some maximum and minimum, or at least minimum, i.e. that there had been a minimum loss of income that began to draw the line. I find this very interesting because, of course, that's how it is, and now it's not any new news for anyone, that whenever you set any steps of any kind, you end up either just below or just above. It is a very short time then between those just above and those who may be hard to grasp, for the person below, for any who is right, but not for the other person. It was an old story, of course, and new, but I found this very interesting thought to me at the moment. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy. Thanks to the bill, it's supposed to look ahead, and you're trying to make a certain point, which I think is extremely important. In the Bible, the Bible says: "It is written in the book of Revelation, and in the book of Revelation it is written. " a. where there is a requirement for being supportive, first, a defined period of time that an enterprise can apply for or enjoy support and the endpoint is set for and by May. In fact, all fairness is being guarded, temporary regulations in the bill that require a later date, but in March review whether to extend this period. I wondered, " Is it not reasonable at this moment, since more and more signs suggest that the demand or resurrection of tourism will be delayed beyond what was hoped for not very long ago, to extend this period immediately, at least for the time being? ' about one or two months, well into the summer but still have provisional regulations that could be taken. Then, of course, the question about the loss of income is, how much it has to be in order for the company to enjoy the help. You're absolutely right at the highest. The minister of finance, which he entered here in reply and in his speech, is, of course, a number of options that companies can process. Nevertheless, I believe that there is good reason for the committee to examine very carefully whether 60% is the magic number that is desirable, provided that the committee does not go into the process of establishing a linear process for this. I'd like to mention other factors that might be considered here. The purpose of all of this is, of course, that, as most companies, they are especially for tourism and related articles, and yet others, they are all ready to participate in what we like to ask when the economy begins to take over. Then I think the value of the ancient diet, which has been great in everyone's mouth, and especially in the government, is wise to do more than less. I'm not entirely convinced that this bill contains the message that you're doing more than less. It also needs to be noted that the amount of money set and then, because the bill, the amount of income you earn, the amount of money you can get; i.e. 400,000 bucks. For each status value, if the income drop is between 60 and80%, and then 500,000 k. If it's above 80%. All of these are conditions that can be effective and need to be very careful with the work of the Committee. Of course, many of these companies have in themselves failed to choose to pull themselves together, as it has been called here, to try to maintain minimal organ functions like a bear on the farm. Of course, there are many other companies that are fighting as they possibly can to support some kind of business, trying to attract clients by available means, changing their activities in various ways, and showing that they have a lot of purpose and vitality. I think it's very important that we don't leave these companies behind, though they're struggling to stay floating. It must not come out that the most combater, the best - working person to keep seawater, is somehow punished while others are, and I'm not saying that their circumstances are so that they can do otherwise, lie around like the bear, and can't, or have no ideas to try to add to the business in a way that some minimal activity is going on. I think it's a lot of stuff. I'm not going to go deeper into this one, I'll bet you I haven't had time to look at it all down. But I'm convinced of it, and I know it well from my experience at work. The Economic and Business Committee, that these cases are being handled well, and I trust that, so far, the Commission will do a considerable bit of work to make the situation more efficient, as it seems that there is room for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u84	President. This is yet another of these matters, which has been necessary to resort to the code, but, as the bill's report agreed in March, the government agreed to take steps to meet the economic impact of the epidemic. The goal of the bill, as recorded at 2 Peter 3: 1, 2 - 5. ., are, by permission of the President: ▪ The aim of these laws is to help operators who have suffered a loss of income due to a pandemic crown virus and the government's efforts to protect against the spread of it can maintain the level of activity during the outbreak's impact, preserve business relationships, and ensure immediate implementation. I'm not going to measure anything specifically against these goals as such, but what I would like to draw attention to is the use of decisive measures. It speaks of business partners who have suffered a loss of income. It is defined as the 60% mentioned here, but not those with 50%, 55%, or something like that, although it is also a drop of income. This brings us to realize that these goals and circumstances would not be the strength to turn to. This is what I have repeatedly complained about all my public finances, not just about the epidemic, the lack of analysis and the reasons we have here at the council, but that one solution is chosen in excess of others. We are in the situation where we have printed about 300 billion dollars here. It is said that some 200 billion of them went into real estate after all. This is not exactly an efficient use of the money-printed vector that the state's budget had for the economic effects of Covid. There is a lack of analysis of the impact of the actions we have been suggesting. The government offers some suggestions on how to handle this situation. But where do the money go, and what effect do they have regarding the very goals specified? What will be the scene, e.g. In bankruptcy, without the strength of wood? How does this affect society and the wealth of the Kingdom? And what would be the difference, what would be the situation if we agreed to the volume of resistance listed here? According to the Habitat, a total of 2,415 parties meet at least Sixty per cent per year. 2,415, okay. How would it affect these companies, these individuals and parties, if not gone into the resistance? And how are they expected to get the other side out of these strong ones? What will be the final outcome? Is it going to be 10% of those that drop too much in spite of the kickback? Will there be no one? Would 100% of those with this expression not make it through the code if it wasn't for the resistance? There are these analyses that are always missing so that we can decide if this is a good treatment for public funds. If the result is that despite the volume of resistance, no one gets through the code, it is likely better to use the money somehow differently. But that's exactly what they're missing. I suppose this has any positive effect, though, but I just can't tell who and I can't answer people who are listening and ask: Is the public money being cared for? I can't say yes or no, I can say probably, but I don't really like answering like that. These actions do not tell us a complete history of the interactive effects of all government procedures. They will be replaced by other means. These are penances, and the rest were the treasuries. There are also some ways of giving taxes, and this is a part - of - a - cost way, and it is paid by notice. There are e.g. The same people getting strength from many sources? There is nothing of such a synergistic effect that makes us at Congress extremely difficult to keep track of how public funds are treated, which is also bad. Is the support given twice through some means, perhaps through the tax route and on the other hand, by means of the support given? Many of this is exactly what we have been trying to do in recent years. The government, the former government, etc, did not bring sufficient diagnostic work to the council, which is to govern the budget. We have this bizarre arrangement here, where it is supposed to be separate between power, legislation and financial power. The Commission will be conducted at the council but the European Commission is expected to be separate. But, of course, we have groups that use more parts at the General Assembly to appoint a European Commission, which, in turn, brings such work to the council, thinking that such cases will pass through without taking over the surveillance section that the Parliament should handle under any normal circumstances. This is often the knife in the cow, in the use of force, and in a measure of disrespect for the responsibility that the Allied Council is to take. We see it in the words of the highest. Secretary of finance, who says the General has agreed to this as it once was, with 40%, in the previous administration of the government. But it does not necessarily reflect the work of the Generals but simply the majority quietness in this house and how that power is used in a very incontrovertible way. In my opinion, it is the source of all of our problems how the majority power is used and now to oppose certain resistance grants without proper support. Why isn't it 55%? Why is that 60%? Why do these companies get money and no one else? Why are they not told what the circumstances would be without the strength they need to resist? People outside who are paying their taxes scratch their heads and ask: Is this helping my house, my work, and my work? Maybe, but there's nothing explained about it. And there's always the knife in the cow, about all these matters of the government. It's a piece of pieces, and somehow it needs to be sewn together, but we don't even get the needle to try it, and we don't know anything about the color or pattern or size or anything. We only get this on one board without being able to puzzle the way this goes with everything else. It's a little tired, I have to say it. I'm interested in what I'm doing. The legal committee will now proceed with e.g. trying to live by the laws on public finances. It affects this law bill that goes to bed. The Economic and Business Committee. The rationalization that is to be followed by laws that affect government funds is found in the official financial law. Although the budget, funds, financial plans, financial policies, and the like are primarily referred to, there are general laws on the impact of legislation, cost evaluations. And even if this is mentioned here, some less than 20 billion, at the most, if all of this depends on the book's most pessimistic predictions, we are told here, it doesn't tell us anything about the effect. It just tells us how much it costs. It does not tell us how much we benefit from using public funds, public funds, in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u85	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalise a change in commitment and pollution laws, environmental impacts assessments and climate laws. The objective of the bill is to ensure the safety of carbon dioxide transport and downflow in Iceland to reduce the impact of climate change. There are changes in loyalty and pollution laws involved in the conversion of the EU directive to the storage of carbon dioxide in the earth (2009/31/EC). Changes to the legislation on the assessment of environmental impacts and climate laws are changes related to the implementation of the directive. The above - mentioned directive was introduced into Icelandic just in 2015 by a change in climate law. During its introduction, it was decided to use the source stated in the directive to ban carbon dioxide storage in the Icelandic region, as this was not considered a practical option because of geological conditions in this country. The known methods of the time were affected by the use of minerals such as oil and gas fountains, coal layers or minerals in sediments, i.e. space below the earth suitable for storage of carbon dioxide. However, it was decided to use a warrant for the directive allowing storage of up to 100 kilotons of carbon dioxide for experimental and experimental purposes. In January 2012, a study of such experiments began with a so-called Carbifx method which includes the mineralisation of carbon dioxide in the sub-earthly layers of the earth. Carbon dioxide and possibly other water-soluble gases from a source are dissolved in water that is injected into the basalt. The dissolved gases bind in the basalt and crystallize in the layers of the earth. This can help to monitor the binding of carbon dioxide and possibly other water-soluble gases from the source at the start when they are pumped down. After a certain period of time, localisation of carbon dioxide can be achieved, and there is no longer a risk of leakage. The directive, on the other hand, comes from the storage of carbon dioxide in corrosion below the ground, which increases the risk of carbon dioxide releasing and looking back to the surface. Therefore, long-term monitoring is required. The bill presents another form of the directive's implementation in Icelandic law and adapts to geology here on earth, allowing permanent storage of carbon dioxide in the earth. This creates an opportunity for the operators living within the European Union's so-called business system to be tested for carbon dioxide withdrawn from their emissions. At the same time, non-committal people in this country will be given the opportunity to receive the introduced carbon dioxide from the management of the European Economic Areas for subsidation and permanent storage in the land. Several companies are currently working on or in the preparation of land-based work-related decompositions and stone -lining activities related to the geo-engineers. These projects can be important in connection with targets set out by the European Union and Iceland. Conditions here offer to stone nearly unlimited amounts of carbon dioxide and to realize that there is a major interest in the entire European economy, which is primarily in reducing global climate change. By enforcing the means proposed in the bill, the introduction of the directive's contents to subspecies as a new section of the laws on loyalty and pollution can be linked to its laws. However, this is to simplify work in case management and version allowing for download, in the implementation of operations, in follow-up in case of functional abnormalities and in the process of closing down-down sites. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject and suggested that it be at 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u86	Mr. President. I'm not going to put a lot of words on this important subject, but this is in itself a remarkable bill because Iceland is reconnecting in a new way into the global carbon species, we can call it, offering a carbon binding in quite large ways. This is actually sales of carbon soup to those who are active in anti-climatic activity, it can be domestic and foreign companies, and in the way in which this is the case, I would think it would all be a fairly large business. That's what it's all about, like the highest. A minister saw, to put a carbon gas into water, and to inject it into the ground. The stuff that sits there, this fossilised carbon, is actually a bond of carbon and calcium, we call it calcium carbonate. In pure form, beautiful form, it fits the title silverberg, which most Icelanders, or many people, are well acquainted with because the Icelandic silver ball is actually world famous. It was part of a revolution in phototechnology, an opist called when it was being developed special microscopes and taking major steps in scientific progress a long time ago. In other words, science has a very important place, and a book was being published here in Iceland, about the silver bed. Of course, today these devices are no longer used, but today's silver bed has a new place in science, for it is a science product in a way that, at the same time, is a center for the fight against climate change. No other way to say that this is a very pleasant product, which is not chance, scientific cooperation in new fields, the cooperation of Icelandic scientists, American scientists, and other parties that give us that goal. I'd like to use this opportunity along the way, Mr. President, to remind you of another very similar project that is going to be successful called woodwashing. It is the forest industry, farms, and other bodies' project to open up the official carbon binding in a forest in Iceland, including domestic and foreign companies. Deforestation can be purchased, thus reducing the effects of its own emissions of carbon dioxide or carbon gases on the atmosphere by tying it here in forestry. Of course, it's not uniform, it's in a way less than we can, but it's worth reminding. The bill we're discussing here is an excellent initiative by governments and scientists and now the Generals because, of course, we have to do this excellent bill, and I'm expecting that there will be a parapolitic stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u87	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to correct the change in the law on the equation costs of electricity distribution, No. 98/2004, i.e. 397 to 336. According to law No. 98/2004, on the equation of electricity distribution costs, electrical energy costs are applied to customers of the distribution of distribution costs between rural and urban areas. The price was recorded in 2015, and the amount of equation fees is 0.30. every kilohour of the electrical energy that goes through the electrical network. The country has five dispersible reserves for electricity and two of them, the Rark and the Power farms of the West, distribute a substantial portion of the electricity from a so-called rural tax in its defined rural area. So these hosts have an urban bill and, on the other hand, an urban bill. The current income of electricity equation is 990 million. K. ................... to subsidize the rural records, so that they are closer to urban spending. Initially, from 2005, the contribution was made to the equation of the cost of spending 240 million dollars. K. every year. In 2014 it became clear that it was no longer a donation to meet the law's targets, so the adjustment was taken up by a special electrical equation of 2015. Has the sum of the equation remained unchanged since then. Since the uptake of electricity equations, the cost of electricity distribution has continued to increase in rural areas beyond the expense of urban areas. Thus, the need for increased contributions to equal distribution costs for electricity has increased progressively over the past five years. The cost of reaching the full equation today between rural and urban areas is estimated to be 2,000 million. Mr. K., 2 billion. About 1 billion are missing to achieve that goal. There are a number of reasons for this trend in terms of a wide range of energy costs for rural areas and urban areas. There is a significant need for investment in the Rarc and Energy farms of the West in rural areas beyond previous schedules, including in connection with increasing demand for intensification of electricity, landlining older airlines, growth in tourism for the past few years, and increased electricity use in rural areas. At the same time, the number of users in rural areas is generally lower in order to cover their investments through the Raiks and Energy West. As a result of this development, urban and rural costs have increased back to 2015. Unchanged, this trend will continue for the next four, five years. However, continued linear growth in the future will not be expected to be expected but will result in the maximum investment needs in rural areas over the next four, five years. Thereafter, the cost of allocation will be reduced. Similarly, the government's efforts to speed up the expansion of the earth - based system of electricity have an effect. This development is brought to the attention by the resolution of a national financial programme for the years 20213/42025, showing that, in accordance with government policies, the average energy costs for national energy are in the budget of the 15th energy market, providing additional donations to the range of electricity distribution costs of 730 million. K. every year. This is a 13% rise in the average electrical cost, resulting in about 130 million. K. to the state funds, which is the bill for which I am here measuring, and, on the other hand, a donation from a government fund of up to 600 million. K. The project also came up in the bill for the budget of 2021. According to a proposal for interpretation of the same financial strategy, this plan will be about 730 billion. K. e.g. an increase in the range of distribution costs to reality is the proportion of equation, i.e. Comparison of the costs of electricity distribution in rural areas and urban areas from 49%, which is, of course, too low, to 85% in 2021. The current budget and financial strategy proposed to achieve a ratio of 95% by 2025 are aimed at achieving this objective. So the bill I am here measuring is in line with government policy on the national balance of energy costs, as stated in the Government Convention and as the goal of a financial programme for 2021/2025. The bill provides an update on electricity equations to match the price change since 2015, i.e. This increase in electricity equations is 13%. We're not raising the number, we're raising the price. The simple adjustment is due to an equation of 0.30 k. every kilohour to 0.34 p.m. and from 0.10k. Every kilohour due to impaired electrical energy at 0.11 k. If the bill is legalized, it is estimated that the average increase in power balance of the user in urban areas will be 0.34% or 21 k. per month for an increase of about four pennies per kilogram hour. The rural electricity cost, however, falls by 1.20% for Richard or 93 k. per month, but 1.39% at the Energy base of the West, or 109 k. per month. Adding additional funds to the equal volume of mass costs, 600 million. K, multiply the effect to decrease rural areas. For a report with the bill, see a table showing the impact of the bill on the diffusency. The impact of the bill on an enterprise generally depends on the energy demand for the business and whether the relevant enterprise is rural or urban. A respectable president. After this discussion, I suggest that the matter be passed through 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u88	Mr. President. We must all be happy that this case has come to an end of important equality for Iceland and Iceland to equal the mass cost of electricity and that all citizens of the country sit at the same level when it comes to opportunities to live and work. Actually, it's a little tragic that this wasn't done long ago, and it's actually completely annoying that residents aren't sitting at the same table. However, I am still under obligation to understand why the government chooses not to go all the way and how it differs according to the Treaty. You could finish the case right away next year, like the highest. A minister admitted that she wanted to do so, when she had a conversation about this project in a discussion about a financial plan earlier in the fall, and she referred them to the fact that she would support it if it was required by the council to go that way. Sure there are plans to go up to the 95% equation in 2025, but that's a long way in the future and as far as I know, 95% is not 100%, but the highest. A minister will correct me if I've misunderstood. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister how this proclaimed increase of less than 10% in landnet's currency will affect these distribution costs. Does this mean that the ratio does not reach 85% next year or what are we talking about? Similarly, Mr. President, on the Facebook website of the Landsnet, I was noticed that the government's results had not been passed, so the company can see no alternative but to raise annual fees. Will the government intervene and make sure that there is no need for tax returns, which, yes, have a great impact on the country, both the public and the major users?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u89	Mr. President. To make this clear, we are talking about reaching 85% of the equation immediately in 2021. It takes more money to level that 100% immediately next year, and that's why we're going this mixed route, a raise of the price, and 600 million on the budget, in addition to the billion that the equation will pay us today. We've got Deloitte working for a specific analysis of several factors, and in there it's both that well. A member of the U.S.R.P. but also on further means of ensuring a broad range of costs and checking the potential agreement between the diffusers for this purpose, and this conclusion is to be expected immediately in January. I have a Senate bill for changing electrical laws that I intend to submit to the spring council so that any suggestions that came out of work with Deloitte can be turned into that bill. I believe that it may be very serious to consider whether we need five distribution hosts in Iceland, a non-contracted activities, or whether they may simply be fewer in order to achieve a certain economy as well as the factors involved. Of course, it is also something we should be able to examine very seriously. As for Landsnet's raising plans, it's to consider at Power Institute, and that's the legal process. The energy agency will take six weeks to review this and ensure adequate data are available. As long as it is, I'm not here to have an opinion of it, so the law is now. It is asked if we can make any further system changes to help prevent these increases from being involved, but of course they will lead to enterprises that have been in a better position to accept them than they now are. [[The president calls.]] But the law needs to be adjusted to do so, and in that work we are.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u90	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister will respond and rejoice that this is a hearing in the Ministry. Of course, we will discuss this more later on in the committee. However, two other things raised questions or concerned me about this subject, which we have already discussed. It's the highest. Ministers are not concerned that the route selected here has a negative impact on smaller institutions, i.e. The buyers, for example, have to buy the electricity of the diffusers. This must have a significant negative impact on their competitiveness and their potential for growth when calculating the equation. I'm asking, "How's the big one?" Minister to fix the problem? Mr. President. I would like to ask the highest. Minister again, why wasn't it decided to go the way suggested in a service group report on electrical transport to rural areas, i.e. to record one currency for the country as it was done in its time with Shimann. As I understood. A minister in our first conversation was the answer to the fact that it was too complicated and too much work. Surely there is one way the minister mentioned earlier to reduce the number of the diffusers. I think, Mr. President, we have to start taking a serious look and solve this situation once and for all. But I would like to pray to the highest. A minister to explain further, as well as the Supreme Court. Minister that one of the biggest problems was that it had not been done at its time, as with Shimann. But, Mr. President, this isn't the laws of nature and, like, the highest. A minister said before, the law can be changed. In this case we may need to do so. You see, it's just the government's decision, and I'm gonna ask it again, "Why wasn't that way yet? "
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u91	Mr. President. We took it to further the idea of uniting records and just having one, but the reason we decided not to go that way is not that it was too much work but because the faults were just overworked. In this way, there is not enough right motivation for convenience, for transparency to decrease, for the management of the Power Institute, and for this, it will be harder to have an overview of the cost. I simply thought that it was not good enough. That's why we're going this mixed way now, and as I mentioned it is one way to unite dispersal hosts and achieve increased management, so that, as it is, mine knows, it is time to rethink these systems. It may merely match the changes that are taking place. There is a stairway to the register because customers in the energy system are simply growing very much, and our system and all the approach is still too much, in my opinion, to either be with a barracks or a small company. We are today with much more variety of customers, and the variety will only grow. Very few users have between 5 and 10 MW applications and are dispersible customers, but not directly linked to Landnet transport systems, there are few companies but are very few. Some sources of data are even directly linked to Landsnet through distribution plants and do not pay the cost. Dissolves will, in turn, reduce rural fees while increasing urban fees. There is an introduction within the distribution system which is then independent of what has been introduced about Landsnet and that matter, it is in the process of Power Institute and not at my level while it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u92	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the contributions of this bill. It's time. It's a good step, but it's too short, too short a step in the direction of righteousness. This is an enormous interest in people living in the country, whether in urban areas or in rural areas. We talk a lot about the equations of biographers in the whole country, and it rightly says in the bill that high rates of distribution costs in rural areas contribute to an increasing decrease in population, loss of employment, and the related negative results. Everything's true. It is natural to think that the differences in electricity costs between urban and regional areas, or where the problem is the most severe, are up to 60% at the time. A rural family, e.g. During the winter before winter, while the town may have lights on until midnight for the same coin. Is there any sense in this, and what righteousness is in it? What message is it to the people of the land who are far and wide around the country? Electricity is a fundamental factor in each person's life. Without it we are not living wherever we live. The government has made this a good term for the entire ultimatum period but will react at the 11th hour. But it's good, better late than not. But I can see from the words of a minister that there will now be no more than 15% difference in the electricity cost of rural homes. And when will the secretary's plan for the full equation be reached? She had somebody get a word about it. [[The president calls.]] Most important, do Landsnet plans for a 10% tax increase over a year have any effect on these Minister plans, as if they actually had a slight impact on them? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u93	Mr. President. As I came in earlier, we'll reach the 85% equation right next year. Then there's an extra every year for the next year. I believe that we, along with the plans to look for ways to achieve further management of these Yahwehs, allow us to think only again how we run them and how we reach these goals. If we do, it will look at the way we reach the 100% equation, possibly earlier, by some means than simply adding the extra funds to the budget. By this means now, to improve the budget, we have a mixed way, one on the other, an equation, and a special contribution on the budget. But if we're going to leave 85% of the plans now, to 100%, that's about 270 million. K. In addition. That's what's missing. Whether or not, as planned in a financial programme, we are going to add in the coming years to get it or if we can go another way - I think the work with Deloitte could possibly give further insight into which other ways are effective. I'm of the opinion that the system can be watched and found ways to achieve a higher economy that could be seen in the context of this project. As for Landsnet's plans, I just reiterate it here that they have just appeared. They're in to the Power Institute. The Agency has under law six weeks to review them and to review their data. That process is bound to law, and while it is, I have no authority to intervene in it. But, of course, I'm thinking that we should look for any means to avoid further remunerations for users who are not on the best track today to receive them. [[The president calls.]] The need for investment at the Landsnet is great, but again it is a question of how it is calculated and how the system is combined, and Deloitte is working with us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u94	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answer and stress that this is a good stage and a happy event. I also stress that this is a huge interest issue for families and citizens in the country and, of course, to some extent, a business. But I ask a minister if we need not revise our position in these matters with the thought of ensuring that the most common necessities of life, of course, are available at the same time in any country. Of course, the electricity is one factor, hot and cold water, and I don't talk about goods and transportation services, but there may be more recent examples of public authorities coming in. I also ask: Have we not come up somewhere in the process of finding out and out - of - date thinking in that regard? This is basic service. We remember, those who are older than two times, depending on where we were paid especially for long - distance telephone conversations, and steps were different in telephone communications depending on where we lived in the country. Who can think of this now? Don't you think it's the exact same with the electricity? It is a resource that has a source in many parts of the country, but those who might sacrifice land under the lines pay a terrible price for their energy. Is it possible for a minister to see any organizational changes, though this is a problem earlier, regarding the application of electricity distributions and sales in the country? Is this really necessary if we are to balance matters permanently? We're talking about this equation right now, but doesn't the gap quickly increase again? Just at the end of the day: Ministers are addressing the potential agreements of the dispersal hosts. [[The president calls.]] Is there anything a minister can shoot at what it's going to bring in a lot of economy?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u95	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for very interesting questions and wanted me to have more than two minutes to have more conversation about this. I couldn't agree more. Senator. I've said many times that the main problem of the electrical power system as it is today is this difference. This is simply unfair. Of course, it would be good if 2015's plans had worked out what they were supposed to do, that the billion then would have worked out what they were supposed to do. So the plan was that we should achieve the full equation. It didn't work, so we're reacting in this mixed way now, putting new 600 million on budget, and then raising it with respect to prices, resulting in a 13% rise. Hv. A senator asked about possible harmony. Deloitte's gonna help us with that work, find out the benefits and weaknesses of uniting diffusers. The same is true of these possible organizational adjustments. So I can't tell you what economics would be at that end, but I think it would also depend heavily on the kind of unity there were, the distribution markets, where they had their headquarters, where the employees were, and how all this cost would exist, this overcrowdment, and this fixed cost. Then, perhaps by some system change, it would be possible to achieve further economy as well. Other laws apply when talking about diffusers, so that I mention them again in connection with other things, because they have a special Marketing operation. Since there is no competition, humans cannot compete for any competitive foundation and thus achieve an advantage. That's why it's controlled like this, and the control and the frame we've built, there's a review. I think it is very important that we are open to all means of searching to ensure that we run these systems in the most practical way, and sometimes the rule is simply for us. This is a combination of the structure, the income limits, etc., but of course, how we use property that is equal to the public and that includes the five diffusers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u96	Mr. President. Here's an important bill from the highest. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers I'm going to do a few positive comments about. It's good to hear e.g. Yeah. paritaprevir Brjánsson rejoices over this; the cause of government rejoices over our progress. The government hasn't laid hands on energy issues, either at Covid times or for them. I would like to remind you again of the energy policy and energy exchanges that are taking place and the development of electrical transport by means of a new council of so-called electronic committees when you need to put high-voltage lines around more than one rural society. That's all the progressive steps we should take. In addition to this, I remind myself of the inexpensive distribution system of global electricity and geologicalisation in order to increase the safety of electricity users in the general system. This government has also set clear goals for equal energy costs. This adds another step towards the full cost of the user we see. So this bill is made to confirm. In fact, a second step is to be found in the financial program for the 2021/2025 years. I don't run it here, it's got the highest. Ministers are made, and other steps are actually in the load. I don't need to be large enough on the benefits and rights of all of these steps, and I'd like to use this brief opportunity to celebrate the work of the Minister and Ministry and the government on this occasion, as well as the upcoming payment. The job committee, which I know will see to it that this will be done sooner than later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u97	President. I recommend a bill to raise the budget for the year 2020. 399. In view of the circumstances that have already existed in the past year, it has been necessary to obtain additional financial resources because of the counterweight measures that governments have made in line with the legal adjustments adopted here at the General Assembly. Fresh funds have been approved for the past year, and all of them have mainly included reactions due to the pandemic of Covid-19. So it is a fifth bill for the budget of 2020 laid before the General Assembly. This bill is a custom according to only temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable spending management. Most of the changes can be attributed to the financial resources of various causes of heartburn and lawsuits to the Covid-19 epidemic. It was not the time to make proposals for increased budgets because of the high cost of the pandemic of the individual institutions in earlier financial contributions. Instead, it was decided to wait until the outbreak's progress and consequences became clearer in the latter part of the year. However, this was somewhat discussed in the treatment of the council of the previous budget primes. The proposals in the bill for Covid-19 can be divided into two parts. On the one hand, in response to the increased cost of the epidemic and the other, proposals for increased funding due to further counterimbitant measures aimed at reducing the social and economic effects of the pandemic. There are also some suggestions for a number of other specific and unforeseen budgets that have been developed in 2020. In addition, the changes made in budgets and transfers between lawsuits are proposed, but such changes do not affect the survival of a trust fund. Finally, the bill suggests a change of 5. and 6. The budget for 2020, which includes loans, loans, and state responsibilities, and other sources, such as the purchase and sale of real estate, property and land and stocks that I will further review below. In preparing the budget bill, it has been emphasized to handle matters in accordance with the role of financial contributions as defined in the official financial law. This means that funding is not intended to meet the expenses for new projects, increased scopes of activity, or the management of individual causes and lawsuits above the set budgets; nor is it legal to refer to such proposals for the change in budgets for the next year's budget. As in earlier financial contributions, this bill does not suggest a change to the income side of the budget, nor any change in cash flows, nor the obtaining of the state's funds. On the other hand, reevaluated views are reported in the report on the bill. This will be the main part of the bill for the change in donations made to case classes where increased funds are needed, not reduced by contributions to other legal groups. However, in some cases it may be possible for certain spending cases to form transfers, resulting in substantiateing of causes and litigations. A respectable president. Then I'll go to the main topic of the bill. The bill asks that government funds in 2020 be increased by 65.1 billion dollars. which corresponds to 6.5% from previously approved sources in 2020 and 5.9% increase from pooled sources in budgets and approved budgets of the year. Among the earlier budgets of the year, there was an increase of 16.8% from the budget adopted in November 2019 C.E. The magnitude of the procedure is mainly explained by the response to costs associated with the Covid-19 pandemic, which accounts for about 55 billion years. and can therefore be attributed to approximately 156 billion k, or 93% of total budget increase over the year, to a direct or secondary effect of the pandemic. If the increase of budgets is considered in terms of business, the largest part of the budget will turn to social and insurance, or about 48.3 billion dollars. Of these, additional contributions to the 30 labour markets and unemployment total 44.3 billion dollars. and less than 3.9 billion bucks. to social security in the 27 matter areas of Greece and the causes of disabled people, and 28 causes of the elderly. Next, health care will include 8.6 billion dollars. increase, which is mostly explained by increased health costs. The third most important issue is such financial expenses, responsibilities, and pension commitments that increase by 7 billion, of which the pension debt increases by 5.5 billion dollars. and the financial cost of the state funds goes up by 1.5 billion dollars. on the driver's base. As previously noted, the bill suggests changes in budgets due to the pandemic and changes in other budgets. The costs for this pandemic's impact can then be divided according to the costs or counter-important measures. In addition, in some cases, there is expected to be increased payment warrants for causes and litigation categories due to the lack of business resources. These suggestions do not include increased business interests of the relevant institutions but merely change the budget where a donation from a government fund is increased against the less sectoral income. Substantial measures account for a total of 28.7 billion dollars. There weighing a weight of 23.3 billion. contributions from income management. Then it is suggested to provide more than 2.1 billion dollars. in addition to additional contributions to provide financial support to the communities and to protect the legal basis of services, as per a declaration relating to the agreement of state and rural society due to financial programmes 202/252025. Furthermore, it is suggested to provide 2.1 billion dollars. due to temporary prolongation of income-related unemployment benefits. There are about 0.9 billion dollars. contributes to the vaccine against Covid-19, on the basis of domestic and national needs and on the other hand, as a result of developing cooperation. As a result of the pandemic's increase in cost, the number is 40.1 billion. The vast majority of this is due to increased unemployment, or 29.5 billion. a estimated cost due to traditional unemployment improvements, i.e. except for the partial improvements, it will be about 56 billion dollars. This year. There is an unforeseen health cost of 6.2 billion dollars. More than a billion dollars are also expected. increase of funds to college and further as a result of growing students. At the same time, at the current rate the cost is expected to be at a rate of 13.6 billion per year. Because of a reevaluation of expenses for these measures, but earlier this year's financial contributions, 36 billion had been obtained. increased sources due to this resolution. This reduction results in the lack of as much increased financial resources in the bill to the 30 labour markets as unemployment. Finally, this adds up to 627 million dollars. in an increased payment warrant to compensate for the loss of the pandemic income income. Expenses not linked to the pandemic, except for some 9.9 billion dollars. Of the cases that involve the greatest increase in expenses, the above is 5.5 billion dollars. increase in pension commitment. In addition, $2 billion is suggested. in increasing contributions due to reassessment of the annual budgets for the rehabilitation of pensions. Rehabilitation of pensional patients has increased one - quarter between years of age because of increased emphasis on rehabilitation of people with impaired ability. It is proper to mention, then, that in return a 2 billion - dollar reduction. reduction in contributions to County Bank Fund due to review of legal donations for the fund. It should also be noted that in the bill there are changes in the budgets of causes and litigation that reassessments of the budgets of 2019 and 2020, and the budgets are reduced by less than 0.4 billion dollars. which are transferred to the general reserve. At the same time, there are transfers between causes of heartburn and liters in the bill as well as proposals for change in economic exchange. The most important change is 2.5 billion dollars. transfers for closed-station, funded in other budgets of the year, of the Motion of 34 Public Products Fund and specific financial resources to the 30 labour markets and unemployment. Other than that, I refer to further discussion of the bill's spending proposals in comments to individual lawsuits. A respectable president. I would also like to call attention to this, in connection with the role and scope of the budget, in Article 24. a law on public finances is required on the general budget of the A-part of the State Fund. Qualifications for provision from the fund are the same as those that apply to bill for financial support, i.e. He is expected to respond to temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses. General reserves are designed mainly to deal with pay abnormalities, gangs and prices managers, and largely unpredictable and inevitable expenses, such as natural disasters or other costs that are not allowed otherwise under budgetary conditions. The general reserve should be except at least 1% of financial resources, but financial and economic ministers have a general reserve and they decide on how to proceed from it. The 2020 budget accounts for the total fund's budget of about 10.8 billion dollars. Already more than 2 billion have been set aside. from the general reserve, including there have been transfers on the basis of negotiations with the Icteldir intended to ensure international flights to key destinations. There have also been transfers due to the loss of Istavia from domestic airports and to meet the losses of the various parties of the Vega Protocol, caused by the involvement of Covid-19. It is now estimated that nearly 5 billion dollars. will be set aside from the general reserve of the current year in addition to the information I traced, and under certain budgets, which are therefore not part of this bill. There, a further increase in the reevaluation of the budget's financier's budget is about 4 billion dollars. but the effect is mainly on the increase in drug and foreign costs. A further arrangement has not been made at this time and is therefore available for approximately 4 billion bucks. There is room for the fund to deal with unexpected and inevitable expenses before the end of this year if necessary. Part of the measures discussed were analysed by the methods used in the sex of the budget or by 80% of the total value of the bill. The evaluation of measures either compliant measures for Covid-19 or otherwise targeted was made. Expenditures were determined by their failure to support equality, maintain unchanged status of the sexes, or increase sexism or gender gap. Most of these procedures are considered to be unchanged or non-inferiority. A respectable president. Then I'm going to step on a new bill for financial support. On the one hand, according to Article 5, a loan is recommended. ............................ 360 billion dollars. due to the increased financial needs of the state funds in relation to measures aimed at protecting the Icelandic economy from negative effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, this change in clearance is suggested on Article 6. budgets to add new teams to purchase new facilities in the Myy Lake Company for the activities of Lakejörjörður and other government agencies. A respectable president. Before I do what I want to do, I'd like to take a brief look at what's going on in the current year and discuss the changes that have been made in loans. As I have previously concluded, the bill does not suggest changes in the income side of the budget nor does it provide complete changes in the budget gate. Nevertheless, in addition to the work of the bill, reevaluation of the planned result in 2020 has been prepared in view of the Iceland's Economic Standards Programme as well as a revised income programme, as well as the changes proposed on budgets in this bill. The State Fund's attitude in 2020 was last estimated to be accompanied by the construction of a budget bill in 2021 submitted to the General Assembly on October 1, 2000. Reevaluation has now taken into account updated spending plans, as well as the magnitude and impact of counter-improvement on the survival of the state funds. There has been an updated plan based on the latest information on stress and collection and reevaluation of action. Compared to previous estimates, the ratings of the State Fund in 2020 are virtually unchanged, or about 1 billion p.m. Fewer. However, reassessments reveal that income will be about 24 billion. higher than the previous prospects, which had given me the expectation that the result would be a little better, but against the fact that the council has been putting in charge and we are putting up here to the council primes, including The bill I recommended today, which counters what is involved in the earning of the money. Thus, expenses will be about 25 billion dollars. higher. This takes place in a manner that compares with the 2020 drop-offs we presented with the 2011 financial bill, the income being 24 billion higher than the cost of 25 billion, and thus 1 billion lower. The increase in income scheme is mainly explained by the decrease in the contracture of the labour stocks during the third trimester and by a reevaluation of the scope of legislation to reimburse the loss of 2020 against the tax-related rate of 2019. The remuneration side has been taken into account the new budgets specified in this financial bill, but in part a reduction in the estimated extent of the previous countertransmissions. The high economic impact of the epidemic on financial funds is clearly seen when the budget of the year 2020 is compared with the current prospects, budgets for this year and the prospects we are considering. Cells are now estimated to be about 115 billion dollars. below and growing 1.5 billion dollars. below what was expected in the budget of the year. It is now assumed that total income will be about 116 billion. under the budget of the budget which is 13% reduction. It is then assumed that the primary expenditure will be nearly 141 billion. over the budget and interest expenditure of $3.4 billion. Over. So that total cost in 2020 will be about 144 billion dollars. greater than initially anticipated, an increase of 16%. As a result, the publication of 2020 will be far less than a budget. It is now assumed that in place of a government budget of more than 270 billion dollars, or 9.5% of VLP, the budget will be replaced by only 0.3% of VLP. The changes that have occurred in 2020 are largely due to government reactions to the economic effects of the pandemic. These reactions are three-fold. First, despite a substantial loss of income, the scope of services, performance, and tools has been maintained. In that way, we have wanted to resist, provide support for a recessive economy. Not only have we maintained the vastness of life but we have also done so. Second, many counterweight measures have been taken, such as the payment of unemployment benefits, the payment of part of the pay on notice, the payment of revenues, and the increase in investments, as was the case with me. The effect of these counter-improvement measures to reduce the growth of state funds, except for less than 103 billion dollars. or 3.6% of VLF. Third, the automatic rhythms of the budget have been allowed to function illegally in the form of lower taxes and higher expenditures for unemployment, resulting in 117 billion dollars. reduction, or 4.1% of VLF. These policies on the economic economic response of the state's budget have, along with the actions of the Federal Bank, reduced the economic contractions and thus the economic costs for the whole community. A respectable president. Funds for 2020 expected a continuing decline in the debt of state funds and an estimated 820 billion dollars. at the end of 2020. There, borrowing was expected for 40 billion dollars. During the year but no foreign loans were expected. Nevertheless, in May 2020, the wealth of government issued a bill that amounted to over 500 million euros, which amounted to some 76 billion dollars. The bond carries an increase of 0.6625% and is one of the three tenets of the euro. The total number of loans this year has now been re-evaluated at 436 billion. Of these, a domestic loan cost 359 billion dollars. which consists of the publication of government bonds for some 169 billion dollars, the net version of government money for about 95 billion dollars. And let's borrow from the IL fund at $95 billion. Thus, during the present year, the total financial debt is expected to be only about 1,251 billion. So at the end of the year and the commitment rate under official financial law will be about 34.6% of VLP. This is in accordance with the credit ratings published in a paper with a Parliamentary arrangement for financial programmes for the year 2021/2025. As a result of the epidemic, the numbers have fallen dramatically. As a result, interest costs of the year increase relatively less than debts. The estimated State budget by the end of 2020 is about 53% higher than the budget expected, while interest costs and prices are only about 3.5% higher. V.E.G. President. I have now studied the major features of this fifth bill for financial support by 2020 and I intend to stop here. I suggest that the bill, following this discussion, be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. The Senate budget, which considers the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u98	Mr. President. Since this deep crisis began, I have been criticizing a minister for doing too little; too little investments, too little real injection, too little compensation, too few jobs. I'm not alone in this criticism. Experts have been saying the same thing. Still, there is always a minister willing to answer me in the same way, that he has, in fact, done enough, that there's an irresponsibleness to do more, that the compensation is high enough, the nurse's growing is the wrong idea, etc. All right. That's where the difference between us and politicians comes in. But then there are five sheep and money that only add, not much, but are added. The cost of employment is only increased, only added to schools, hospitals, artistry, and public employment is only increasing, not enough, but something. V.E.G. A minister may say that our ideas are irresponsible and stupid, but then he performs them half-heartedly and half-heartedly and perhaps after some pressure. How does this work out together, Mr. President? V.E.G. Minister shames us probably, to us who want to add, to which he then does. Where's the bottom line? Minister in politics, really? That's the big basic question I want him to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u99	A respectable president. We've received external assessments of government funds plans, plans for this government. Food companies have included: As we discuss the situation and provide our plans with increased credibility, our credit rates have continued well. It focuses on whether we are responding in the right way and how we feel about it in difficult situations. I'd like to state that I've been thinking that since the beginning that we have to do enough, and I've never excluded, once we've taken a step earlier this year, that we have to do more, that it just had to be determined by the circumstances. The growth of nurses is not an independent goal that I believe is significant in dealing with the economic conditions we are dealing with. However, we have been funding our health according to the needs of this year and if that is a point of view. The senator that the policy will be measured in the billions of people willing to go, I think there's a bit of a hole in his language. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u100	Mr. President. One minister said that he had needed, had responded, and had done enough in many ways. I ask, is there an investment of 1% of the country's production rate? Is that enough? Is the decline in unemployment to one percentage of between years, as per the minister's opinion? Is the continued salutation of the Land Hospital evidence that there is enough room for this to be needed? There are 2 60,000. by tax for disability, older citizens and unemployed signals of the right response and that this is enough? It's 50 billion bucks. the need for areas in the country to show that there is enough here? And is there an additional environment, Mr. President of the United States of 0.1% of national production signal that there is enough here? And next year, the innovation receives 0.3% of national production. This is not enough to face the deepest crisis for 100 years. These are not signs of a need-to-know situation. Minister's talking about. This is not a good reaction. Mr. President. I'm calling for a further reaction to meet this deep crisis because we need to do more. The interests and institutions and the nation are calling for us to take greater steps than this government has been prepared to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u101	A respectable president. I just want to say, " 300 billion isn't enough? ' There are 400 billion of them. A senator is looking for him? Why not examine the method of action? Why not face the fact that the government has extended its investment levels, so we are approaching what has been most recent? We have had to make up a considerable amount of relaxation in an investment. The rural government is not following along, as we would have wanted to see, to be part of the government. But today's lack of investment in Iceland comes from the private sector, and that's why we've preached a special bill to encourage further investments. Yes, I believe the well - funded health system, including with a clear declaration that we will, of course, make sure all of the Covid-related costs are taken quickly and definitely, enough. Yeah, I think so. I believe that when we look back, over the period of work of this government, she showed in its initial focus on how she introduced the immediate support and support of both the health and welfare systems. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u102	President. There's plenty to ask around here. But let us focus on few things in a short time. In the 27th field, a transfer of 2 billion dollars to rehabilitation is being made, from the time of disability. I'd like to ask the minister how this is inaccessible, 2 billion additional expenses in rehabilitation, or, like the highest. In his historical history, a minister gave me an increased focus on rehabilitation, which I can agree with. What I find interesting, however, under all definitions and interpretations, is how a change in the course of a nondisclosure policy or the introduction of a council agreed to the law on public finances.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u103	A respectable president. Here I think I'm particularly trying to see if the ever-growing need for a rehabilitation period following the Covid-19 pandemic has been anticipated or not. I think that's what it's all about. On the other hand, on the rehabilitation process, I'd like to say that it is in a certain way an early intervention in the microenergy system, a bit related to resource management and all the effective measures we are working on at the labour market, and that we are being overly important that we finance the full need to help people who are able to recover from it so that they will not end with lasting disability.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u104	A respectable president. I can totally agree that this is 2 billion additional expenses in this area. It's not all a Covid rehabilitation that costs it. This amount suggests that there is something other than an increase in attendance or something like that; we had dealt with it before. It's like the highest. In his exposé, a minister said this is an increased emphasis on rehabilitation, which I think is quite a price to pay, but is, as I say, a change of course without review or the presence of the council. The other questions I would like to ask are for recalculations on the salary premiums of 2019 and 2020 for hospital services. Today, the Landspians struggle with an estimated many billion people, including them. has been said to be due to an incalculable account of the cost of collective agreements. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is it true that the cost of collective agreements has been underestimated?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u105	A respectable president. We've had contact with the Ministry of Health and the Land Hospital because of the opinion of the Land Hospital that the pay and prices are being fully improved. We have felt that he was fully funded according to the type of collective agreements, but we listen for indications and have considered them. I've got this message from my people that we think it's completely improved. I have to say, in other respects, that I feel that this is one of these government institutions that you deal with here at the Senate Hall in ways that it's normal for people not to follow the laws of the law. I call out that from this council hall and from a budget board it is clear that when you don't follow the laws, you should have some consequences, just as the law on public finance is written out. A senator is often referred to.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u106	Mr. President. I wanted a previous answer, which is now short - term, to include only economic growth, unemployment, and a projection of the Federal Bank on that subject and the effects on the government budget. Was the latest published by the World Bank, which is somewhat darker than the Habitat, guided by an updated revenue plan, reflecting a darker prospect according to the Federal Bank's standards? Besides, I just wanted to come into my head with the concerns of next year's unemployment project. That's all I'm saying, is that it's over? Secretary of finance, that we get large numbers in the next budget, 2021, due to a lack of credit for unemployment costs? So, right at the top of the blue: how's the top? A minister of finance sees that he is financing this state's budget, which increases day by day, and especially with the package that includes these funds? How will people get out of this when they have to start paying all debts? [[The president calls.]] Granted, important tasks exist. If the highest. A minister might cross it a little.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u107	A respectable president. We have not been uplifting the economic outlook in line with the next year's outlook on the Federal Bank. We feel that we are far enough into the year now, November 26, to plan the outcome for this year. But here it is, in effect, coming up to see if we could underestimate the situation for the next year. We made the decision not to update the economic proposals, it would not be such a change that such an update would be needed. I think we should have a little debate about it here at the council whether or not we should disappear from the habit of taking root in the second year, although it will change slightly into forecasts for months ahead, the prospects for economists from June through October. [[The president calls.]] I think it just called so much work on us and we're working with a little uncertain numbers, that we should just stick to our premise.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u108	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. It's hard to answer all these questions, I understand that. We may need to take a special discussion about the angle on the treasure of the Kingdom and how we have planned to get out of it in time. But I only wanted to go on one point on page. 70 in the budget called foreign matter. It reveals that the budget should be increased by an average of 41.8 million. K. This is a substantial amount, only 19.1 million because of the Covid effect. During the second quarter 2020, application rates were 20% lower compared to the previous year at the same time. In spite of this, it is expected that the number of applicants in 2020 will be 90% of the number, so that expenses for this category are increasing at the same time that candidates are decreasing. You ask yourself, the highest. Minister: What will it be like next year when the land opens? Is the policy of this group of lawsuits with this government just an open source?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u109	A respectable president. I'm going to briefly tell you about the funding of the palace that we're going to use all the available means and have a lot of support from the Secret Bank. I traced it to the way we have been in editions during the current year and will look for opportunities to continue publishing next year, and we both have opportunities to do so within the country and outside. If there is a chance of selling property, we should examine them, etc. With regard to the affairs of those seeking refuge, it is true. One senator says, there is concern that the cost will continue to increase, and we may not have been more likely when the number of flights to the country dropped as much as it did, in a corresponding way, cut back from the coming of the shelterers. We have been maintaining this because, in general, about 500 people are waiting for material treatment. It is my opinion that this system is too busy and too costly, which requires response.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u110	A respectable president. We're here on the budget and it's to deal with temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable expenses. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of the budget of 28 elderly people. They're not getting anything, I think. Still, inflation, inflation has begun, food has increased, and certain goods have been identified apart from the fact that these individuals need to be sent home by Covid, even Covid products, alcohol and so on. The cost has run high among them, but at the same time, it has been seen to do so, and thanks to the fact that there will be no payment at $50,000, tax and impairment. That is why I ask: " Why is it that this group remains behind? ' If we are particularly concerned about the worst in terms of recorded recoverys, older citizens in pensions who receive only 90% because of poor housing: Is there nothing to do for this group? Will he be left entirely behind?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u111	A respectable president. Yes, there have not been ones who have called new expenses, unseen, and in particular turned to the reformers for the pensioners we can say belong here. Such decisions have not been made. Hv. A senator here traced an example of monopolies to which decisions have been made. It is also being implemented when funded reforms are improving, but we are not here discussing the financial bill in order to make new decisions on the changes in the reform systems. That's what I think is basically the answer I can give.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u112	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The financial secretary of the answers, but I don't think they're any good because, of course, Covid-19 is unpredictable and, of course, it's Covid-19 to bite this group. Food products have increased by 10% and other factors, and it tells itself that it is really incomprehensible that financial ministers say that these are not unexpected expenses for those individuals they are. Many are already in a bad state, those who are in striped bags, and I don't talk about those who are 90 percent of the money and who used to have poor farms. These people are in big trouble, and all the extra expenses, for food and otherwise for the sake of Covid, they bite and I say for me that in this money there should be something for them. Otherwise, we're just leaving this group and saying to him, "You're just gonna have to tighten the belt and you don't get anything from Covid, but we're gonna help everybody else with Covid.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u113	A respectable president. Let me point out that in the earlier economics, we've seen arrangements to cut rights in the social security system. We have seen, for example, a decrease in ratio of approximately 38% to 45%. There is no such thing on the agenda of this government. We're defending all the social security systems. We'll do it, and we'll get over it. So when it happened. A senator will talk about the Covid effect then I'll say, "They're not about the systems themselves. We haven't made any changes to limit rights at all. Instead, we've been looking for ways to bring in a uniting support. In terms of increases in prices and such, I would suggest that the law assume that the improvement will be increased by next year, taking into account such things.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u114	Mr. President. I'd like to put some words on this fifth raise. As I could in my opponent to the highest degree. Minister I think there's simply not enough here. This may sound odd in view of the fact that the minister has brought five funds, but when you break it down, it doesn't meet the need. V.E.G. One minister asked what was enough and mentioned such figures as 300 billion and 400 billion. There's a bit of misleading numbers on the secretary's side when we see the expenses. I know it's about 260,270 billion and it's even clarified. because income has been reduced and expenses have increased. But if we look at the injection, if we look at what this minister and the government are doing in order to meet the breakdowns of the economy, the families, the homes, and the companies will be affected, we will see that the budgeting of all the budgets increases by 12% and if we take the total budget is 16.7%. I don't think it's enough to face the deepest crisis in 100 years. It may well be that it seems very cheap for a politician, especially a diplomat, to say, "I want more, I want more. But I'm not the only one. According to one expert, there is a real effort here to soften the blow to provide resistance. Resistance is a term the government uses for fear. If so, resistance must be more powerful than it is here. This is an investment, but we see in the budget bill we're discussing next week that the so-called investment campaign, the government uses that word, is only 1% of national product. Everyone sees that 1% of land production in a special investment campaign next year to meet Covid is not enough, Mr. President. And this year, for 2020, the rapid implementation of projects was 0.6% of national product, 17.9 billion. It is not enough to cope with the profound shock we are experiencing. Seriously, Mr. President, we need more injections, and we're seeing that from the moment we started talking like this - it's not just the government side, there's economists, stakeholders, agencies that call for more -- they've gotten worse. Forecasts have gotten worse, unemployment is still on the rise. That's what we're worried about. According to the budget bill, which will be discussed next week, unemployment should only decrease by 1 percent between years. Is that a success to shout to your sense of urgency? No. What does that number say? It tells us that this is where the injection is too small. I've said the highest. Ministers often and many times have political responsibility to do more. I know it'll be bigger, but in such a state, it's justified. It is also justified in taking longer than is expected to pay. It's good economics and good politics. At the top. Ministers have been arguing about this for nine months. I know our objective must be the same, but let's use the tools that are more handsome to the government than that. The rural population, controlled by right category, left category, middle category, etc., has been assessing their need for 50 billion for this year and for the next. What's in the budget we're talking about here? The rural population has 2 billion, Mr. President, to provide financial resistance, as it is called. In this year, it is not a financial fight to give your communities 2.1 billion, with all due respect. It's just not enough. Then we'll have news this weekend at the home of the Land Hospital. Why is it that we do not simply wipe the line up? We can afford it. It's 4 billion, and I know it's a lot of money, but there's certainly a situation to dry up that corner of the Land Hospital. How is it that we have a government that wants the landspians, in the middle of a pandemic, to work up an older angle? Why don't we just finish him with one penline? It's possible, because this is the budget. It can be done. It is not justified, Mr. President, to call for economy on this scale to the Land Hospital. Besides the sliding, we also have a special requirement for schools and hospitals for the next year. I have repeatedly criticized that fact. There's no need to keep a routine at this time. The remarkable is that e.g. is not a legal hearing. There are some institutions that will not have a perfunctory requirement next year. Why do we have a requirement for hospital and school? To underscore the surprisingness of the vow, this straggler falls down in two years. Then there's no restraints in the hospital. I say, Mr. President, let's take this contingency requirement. V.E.G. Ministers don't think it's a high number, but all counts. These are big numbers in the big context. Relatives are small amounts, I realize, I'm not arguing about it, I'm just saying that it's bad political messages to put up with these key institutions and even say you have to run faster, talk about bloody waste, etc. I think it's a very peculiar message for the forward line that's doing really well. Then there are other factors that I especially want to draw out. I have also repeated that the improvement in the environment next year is 0.1% of national production and an additional 0.3% of national product. These aren't numbers to cry out for, Mr. President. I'll mention these figures here, waiting to stress that it really needs to be done better in structure, employment, green employment policy, etc. It's simply not done, Mr. President. It's so remarkable, as far as I could in my counter-to-station to the highest. Minister, that once I've been calling for further action, I'll always face the same attitude: it's so irresponsible to do something more. But then comes the highest. A minister with extra cash for extras where he'll make a little better. Of course, this should be a cause for rejoicing. But he's not consistent, Mr. President. He's been arguing with me and other members of the council not to raise unemployment rates, it's so bad, and then cut down on employment. I disagree, especially in a situation where there is no job. But last week he decided to raise them slightly. Also, other factors are being added a little. So the Minister doesn't quite agree with the sound and image. He cannot be alone in an instant violently opposed to adding, as he is, and then some weeks go by, and then he has a press conference, and he adds a little bit. Where's the bottom line? Minister of the politics and in the interests of the government? If we just cross the budget here, that's 65 billion. That's a lot, I'll figure it out, but let's break it down a little. The non-employment bill is half of this number. Of course, overall unemployment rates increase as unemployment increases. I think it is with the most remarkable argument I've heard of a minister of chess forward, not a financial minister, but a social minister, when he said last week, and seemed, in fact, to boast that no government had placed as much on unemployment as this government. Let's think about this. Of course, the amount of unemployment is measured when we consider unemployment. It happens automatically. People have the right to make unemployment. I think that approach to the Minister is as intelligent as if the president of the Land Hospital were about to show off because there had never been so many sick in him, as a sign of some success. Of course not! This, Mr. President, is an empty drop. The point, however, is that the amount of unemployment paid for each individual is too low, even after the expected increase. On the contrary, the unemployed live on about 260,270 of you. K. after taxation at the end of the temporary season. This is true despite our opposition, and numerous experts have said over and over that the best we can do in such a situation is to get the money to those who need it, to get them out of work, and to take less money. This makes it easier for people to live, but this group also spends all their money, and it has no other choice. It's expensive to live in Iceland. If we raise the compensation to the most lucrative groups, to outwork, disability, senior citizens, students, etc., the money goes right back to work. Their money creates consumption, activity, and tax returns. That's what we've been saying and talking a lot about these past few years. Let's get all the money, anyway, to the most lucrative groups, the higher unemployment rates. It does not reduce employment, as some fear. That's a discussion we've taken before. Second, the budget should provide 2.1 billion for the rural community. I managed earlier, Mr. President, it's too small this year. It'll be interesting to see if we change the budget in this regard. Third, several institutions, such as hospitals, schools, and police, are being added to the cost of Covid. All right. We need to get it up on the crime scene, whether it works. But I'm concerned about other costs at other institutions. The nursing home will receive part of it, but is that cost fully added or not? What about the cost of Covid or the mental help or the help group or similar? The government has repeatedly said that the cost of Covid will be improved. It is helpful to know if it will be improved by everyone. Fourth, there are in this financial crisis grants. They're coming for this money right now. But should I tell you something? We at our government stand had long already added strength in this way to our companies. Pay attention. We had long already suggested it, we did it in April. But what did the government groups do? They agreed, as they have done, with virtually every suggestion we have formally made on the table. It's cut. This is not because the government groups agree with the suggestions but because they come from the opposition of the government. The sandbox game will be no greater than this in the time of an emergency and a pandemic. But on the side of the board, we accept what the board puts on the table here, we agree with that. Fifth, it says a story, and I was able to do this earlier, that in a hurry to develop projects for the entire year 2020, less than 18 billion of which are only 0.6% of domestic product. Mr. President. These are all the factors that we on the side of the government and members of the community have noted that there are more to be done and more to be done. The World Bank, the World Bank and OECD have all said that a rich nation like Iceland is due to grow out of the crisis. I know it's a lot, and I know there's not an endless amount of money in government funds, but there are still money in the state's budget, and government funds have various ways of borrowing as companies, homes, and rural society don't have. Now there's very little growth. It's a song, Mr. President, to do better. We'll see that the anchor on the state funds is heading to 9.5%. A government fund wouldn't die if the hook might be increased by 2 percentage points, he wouldn't. Nothing shocking would happen if we did not take aggressive economic action right after two years, as can be read out of the financial program of this government. This situation is, fortunately, something that happens every 100 years, hopefully not much more. It's a deep crisis, deeper than the banking crisis, and that's why we're supposed to use big financial resources to soften the blow, to give companies and households hope. I have often stated from this platform that such a crisis is the biggest failure of the government to do too little. The sooner we get the kickback, the highest. The minister will be consulted, because sooner we get economic growth and production, and we get tax returns. Now, the science tells us that we should do much more about jobs, that we should promote green work structure, that we should promote public infrastructure. We should not be afraid to increase the number of public employees, nor should we be ashamed. We are now to take advantage of the opportunity to increase the number of medical personnel, nurses, policemen, scientists, etc., we are not supposed to be stuck in some right C.E., because there is a need. We are also concerned about the poor ones. The United States recently released a special economic plan entitled The Responsible Way. We have many ideas, 33 ideas, about how we can get back on our feet. It is especially the small and medium-sized enterprises that are the grieving in the workplace that need help. We need to think much more about the industrialist, the store owner and the small service companies, Mr. President. Similarly, we have a moral and political obligation to consider especially those groups who have the least of them and those who rely most on public service, regardless of their status, their older citizens, patients, students, or simply poor people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u115	A respectable president. I'm not going to disagree that we here take a little broad political discussion about the situation and the economic situation, even though we're here merely discussing the fifth budget of the government that actually reaches them for years. I like it. A senator puts great emphasis on the spending side, that there are steps to be taken, and some examples are cited. He wants me to say that I talked about unemployment. The right thing is, I've said, I'm better at strengthening my job insurance system by extending it to the income-related period than I am meeting the demand for a significant rise in unemployment. And because of what? A senator referred to what a social minister has spoken about, i.e. that no government has made more money, of course, must have it in the discussion that the government has greatly increased basic non-employment in the terms of the term. This was done in 2018, and then these changes, e.g. prolongation of the income-related period, as well as a large extramarital effect, by 2.5% on the remainder of the annual conventions. There's more to this than what. A senator specified, but this is not being suggested to go as far as the requirement has been for an increase in basic improvement, even if we are going to a certain level of support, e.g. for children. I miss hearing more about how we get out of this because we're not just going to get out of this position by getting money to work and to those who are in trouble by taking the money out of the store, and that somehow gives us more and more tax pay to the State. What is now missing is the loss of value, the land production. That's our big job.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u116	Mr. President. I'll be happy to cross the income side. It is easy to have opinions on the charge side, especially when it might be better. I think unemployment rates should, for example. To be taller so that people can live on them. But then let's look at the side of the income. The United States has repeatedly had ideas about the income side. We've been introducing something called a professional tax returns for a company. We did not support the government's way to substantiate the layoffs of people. We'd like to cut down insurance for a requisition and a small company. We presented an idea that I find very exciting about 2 billion. K. a discount of an insurance fee for all companies, this would be a sort of personal discount for an enterprise, would be most useful to any company that is small, but would still benefit everyone. This is one way to get the wheels going again, for which the minister was calling. I don't know how many speeches I've had in mind that we could make money, and I want to mention special television and movies. It's so easy. TV and film could be part of Iceland's employment policy and I don't understand why the government isn't ready to raise the payout rate from 25% to 35%. This has been said since January, that it would be highly tailored to create jobs and create activities, especially in the areas needed, in travel. The production of vegetables is another example. I know this doesn't come all the time, but we need a lot of wands. This government was ready to increase domestic vegetable production by one-quarter. I've come up with ideas that we should have four-quarters of a vegetable. The computer game industry, the Technical Development Fund, the innovation - I put it into my speech. Why don't we treasure our financial resources? How is it that next year the addition to innovation is 0.3% of national production? It's not the big numbers, and it's so easy to put it in the private sector. Why is it that the government agrees with our proposal to reduce insurance costs and to add more money to innovation? That's exactly what makes a job.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u117	A respectable president. I just want to talk about the unemployment benefits in relation to the insurance bill as well as a further discount. We're here to recommend a temporary downturn, but we simply have to discuss it more seriously at the council for what insurance bill is over. In other words, job insurance is a price to guarantee a certain job rights, unemployment benefits. We are now controlling matters in a way that enables the state to respond to the fluctuation. Some years ago, the workforce's members were asking for both the stock market and the guarantee fund of pay, the total employment insurance, and the responsibility for this, as well as the whole of birth and all that went with it. They were rejected, and this is the government's way. I've been trying to work on people's agreements about long-term work insurance costs, as well as the total funding of their birth stocks through the insurance fees of all food vacations. As long as we haven't cleared this discussion, we're in a transitional situation where we're very tempted to run out of it and then leave the social security to the rest, which is then the general part of the insurance bill, which is designed to support the state's budget to be up to our social security. It's all run and up in the air at the moment, and I just wanted to share it with you. Otherwise, I can go along with some ideas. Senator. I think there are parishes in vegetable production, and we're supposed to be powerful in the production. I don't think that's necessary, so we have to go to 35%. Actually, I think our system today is very attractive and very competitive. Exactly where that line lies, I think, a little mobile target, but these are all the ideas we need to continue working on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u118	Mr. President. Just there at the end, because I'm so interested in filmmaking. The article itself has said: We need to go up to 35% on the laws and motivations of other countries. Reports recently reported that billions of projects are moving from Iceland to Ireland, a film to take place in Iceland. It's moving to Ireland because they have a slightly higher payment rate than the Icelanders, and notice that we don't pay off a dollar from the government fund until much more is come in. Then comes the refund. The resulting effects are intense on jobs, activities, and taxes. This is so obvious to me that I want to encourage the minister to do this right after the weekend. It is such a simple procedure and would be supported by parapoliticism in this hall. I'm telling you, I'm telling you. Regarding unemployment rates: Yes, I can totally agree with what a minister says, it needs to be considered in the context of the insurance bill itself. But we are faced with a medical emergency at the Icelandic labour market. There are 20,000 Icelanders out of work. Unemployment has never been as much. It is even going to be 25,000 without a job at Christmas. To put this into context, there are more jobs than combined in Akureyri, on Smokeytown, on all Eastern Europe and on the West. Look at the magnitude. That's a huge number. And unemployment is a social and economic disaster for those in it, and especially for long - term noncooperative workers. That's why we've been saying in the United States: Okay. Increased unemployment benefits, although only temporarily, while there is no job. Make people live a little easier. And that money comes back too. With this simple operation, we would be just letting the money we are willing to distribute here work. It's good economics and good politics, as I'm late trying to point out, money goes right out into society. This is what we can do. [[The president calls.]] We saw that the government was ready to take steps last week, to raise unemployment rates, so the prince's hand is no longer present for Ministers, as it once was, to refuse to raise them. [[The president calls.]] All we're calling on is: Increase this more, meet people who are experiencing an extremely difficult time. [[The president calls.]] That's our role in this room, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u119	Mr. President. For the fifth time, we will discuss funding before 2020, and this may not be strange in view of all the circumstances we now enjoy in the community. We haven't had much time to cross the whole bill, since last night it was submitted. That is quite a factor, and many factors are worth considering. At first glance, there are some disappointments that do not take fixed action on specific factors that are currently under attack. You worry that things they say aren't enough. I mention, for example. contributions to school. I make a special contribution to my country partner. I'm giving specific donations for the Covid cost. This will likely mean that we, as members of a budget board, need to apply ourselves even more to correcting the existing budget bill and to be discussed in the Committee. Let's do more than that, the government says. Yet the government does more than that. This is a real disappointment because of the less - than - rate consequences of doing less things, the worse outcome, and the more difficult it is to do so. There are many general words about what should have been done. They may serve little purpose in themselves. I think it's safe to say that we in Correction, and indeed many in the government side too, would have liked to see a larger theme of the steps, and right away. Admittedly, the situation is serious. Unemployment is unbearable. All too many companies fight in banks, fight for their lives, and you have to do as much as you can to make the knots so that society is as well equipped as any to participate in once it comes true. Indeed, there is light at the end of these marches. This is light because there is hope that, within a short time, the virus epidemic will not be overreached. Vaccines are approximately becoming ready and vaccination may start. This does not change the fact that it is still quite long, it is still months before our community, until communities around the world can fit in with the fact that people can do their work, they can travel, and they can be active members of society by turning their consumption into communities. To a large extent, we need to rely on the short - term outcome of the travel industry. Therefore, it is so important that what we do will lead to a short time with a company in that area, and actually more sectors that have been exposed to large quantities of supplies and were indirectly linked to tourism. These include cultural activities, arts, and then the wide variety of fleas in what some of us, at least We're starting to call the night economy, i.e. The entertainment life. It is a vital part of human society that we can enjoy. Hence, it is so important that support is directed where it produces the best results. On the contrary to what many Ministers say, at least at the holidays, that they are determined always to do more than less, do less, and they tend to do it too late, and that's unfortunate. It is very important in these circumstances to take a big step right away, to create as much certainty as possible for the future. I know well and realize it's difficult, but it's still possible to do better and it needs to be done. The money we're dealing with is pretty much gone. I think it's a lot of work to do for the budget board to make significant improvements in many areas if we're gonna be able to do both at the same time, preserve as much business and economic activities as possible and be able to build up what we had. Surely, it will not be possible to bring it all together. It's right in front of us. At the same time, however, we also need to consider the future and be bold in building what will provide us with a more diverse economy, more support. We have to do this at the same time, because if there is a delay in reacting in these areas, new jobs, new companies, will also be delayed. We can't afford it. If there's one thing we know for certain, then there's going to be a comeback, hopefully not at the same magnitude as we're dealing with right now, but they're coming. And each time we have these dips, we have said to ourselves: " We need a variety of jobs, we need more support to rely on them so that their dips are not as rough as deep. ' Somehow, we've always managed to forget it as soon as the opening breaks. Then we wake up with a bad dream at the next dive and say: "Oh, we should have been more diligent in making our job life more varied and stronger to cope with such fluctuations. Of course, this is an assignment that we must take seriously and cope with. In effect, I would like to describe my wish and the hope that on a budget board, we will spit on our hands and do even better than the appearance of an existing budget bill. I think that one more time we -- and when I tell them I mean the government - is to build on over-thinking grounds. I think that while the light is at the end of the tunnel, it's going to be more slow and more difficult than the predictions made by the budget. We must pay attention. The financier and the General will not be able to look beyond the window, but they will be content with a window of old economic forecasts that is no longer applicable. I believe that and trust that we will succeed because there is a lot to do. If we don't pull this off, I'm afraid the damage will be much bigger.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u120	Mr. President. As we have seen, this year we are discussing the fifth allowance. These are natural unprecedented conditions that the state's fund has faced, and the whole nation, because of the virus epidemic. Much of this money, up to a mere 65 billion dollars, pays unemployment, but unemployment is sadly high. I'd like to encourage all those who are dealing with the lesions in a difficult situation. I hope we'll publish it in a new year, and we hope it will be soon. It is also appropriate to stress that there is a workforce that can be used especially by a professional driver, the recruiting of people who have unemployment records, thus being strengthened by each employee. I want to encourage the employers here and now to take advantage of this strategy, for it is certainly important to keep something involved. Although employment rates are reduced or otherwise, all of this is important. More purpose is experienced by being able to go to work every day. I'd like to make a special note that what I feel is missing in this financial bill is coming up to meet an older citizen. I'm not gonna do anything about it, either here or on the budget bill, and I'm going to discuss it more closely when we go to the 2nd. About the budget bill. I truly miss the fact that older citizens don't get any special pay for, for example. Covid. The poor have received special payment, and that's fine. But it is also out there a group of older people and several thousand people who are on the edge, as they say, in difficult circumstances. How important it is that we meet that group too, and we in the middle class have highlighted this in our language and will do so in our proposals when financial laws are passed. Fundamentalists received a memo from financial and economic ministers that includes the budgets submitted this year and that can be the most closely attributable changes made to the pandemic. However, approximately 9.9 billion in this budget are not linked to the pandemic. It is, in fact, there. An increase in pension debt to 5.5 billion, which in itself is not necessarily reasonable, because there is an enormous debt of money to be handled. I just wanted to get into one of those memos that especially caught my attention, and that's what we're talking about about. It says that expenses were determined on whether they had failed to support equality, maintain the unchanged status of the sexes, or increase sex rights or gender gaps. Most of the measures are considered to be unchanged or in support of equality. In addition, the vast majority of the measures evaluated are considered to be maintained as unchanged status and status of the sexes, which account for about 65% of the total budget of the bill. In particular, there is an increase in costs due to high school growth at an advanced and university level. Now that more of those attending college are women, you ask yourself: " Does not men in this fanciful financial system depend on the lack of education? I'm not quite sure, Mr. President, that this statement in a memo at the highest price. The secretary of finance is correct, that the bill does not affect the sensory system. I just think it's on the way that men are concerned. Then there is a very interesting chapter in the memo, which says that two operations are likely to increase the gender gap in the bill. It is an extension of unemployment benefits and environmental contracts with the retailers of memory generation. Do men know how many marmalades there are in this country, and how many men operate there? Support to local manufacturers is likely to be a source of strength to a small group and men to the greater extent. But it is compared with a university student who has increased by more than 1800. I have to say, I think this presentation is ridiculous, that a few minutes away with a few men working with a small number of guys put a sensory set on the side and an extra sex gap. I'm surprised to hear that. The secretary of finance should place his name on this text above his head. On page 18. 12 In the cornea, the committee's members received a review of automotive commutations in the state and that they were allowed to operate illegally in the form of my tax returns and further expenditures for unemployment. They lead to 117 billion dollars. reduction in survival of approximately 4.1% of GDP. After all, the identity of these automatic fluctuations is not clear to all. Therefore, it would be very helpful to divide this amount further to better explanations, such as those taxes mentioned above. I'd also like to take part in another important matter that has a tendency to compromise the treasure of the Kingdom. It grows more naturally with the appearance of this bill, if it becomes the law. Granted, there are significant factors, e.g. The unemployment rates and expenses are inevitable, but we must also discuss in this context how to finance this angle. How is the treasure of the state going to finance it? I observed recently that the money fund was being discussed in the media, and it was said that they did not intend to lend a wealth of money on low interest. Thus, it is vital to consider how to finance the high financial balance that is now being made and to increase day by day. In addition, expenses must be unpredictable and unexpected. That's the main theme of bringing in the budgeted bills. I'd like to take an example of the fact that this bill is not about to be legal. It's, for example. magazine on the authority to purchase possessions and to discuss buying houses in a CEE country for Lake Seven National Parks and talking about them. But this case doesn't belong to any of the money, I think it's perfectly clear. There is nothing unexpected or unexpected in this matter. It's a piece of work to be in. We've taken this discussion many times, every year, here that we've been sneaking in on money items, financial bills, expenses that don't belong there. There are, however, several examples of such things in this bill, and I will get in more afterwards. There is also a lack of transparency, a much better, more purposeful explanation. It's, for example. Twenty million. K. Funding for the Ministry of Presidency for the cost of Covid and no explanation for the costs involved. It discusses the appointment of an employee for management at the European Parliament 2022/2023 and then other special projects related to it. It's a petition that belongs on the budget bill. There is nothing unexpected or unpredictable in these expenses. They knew exactly when we were taking the lead, and these are not part of the budget bill. On page 18. 67 on the bill, we discuss the costs of the Land Hospital in a local university hospital for Covid-19 and says that it makes it impossible for them to be allowed to pay available expenses, but costs for which the institutions were to participate are expected to be involved because of the payment of their contracts with Microsoft. It has been declared by the government that the hospital receives the entire cost of Covid, but it cannot be seen that the argument is valid, that the hospital should receive this in particular. This contract, the induction, is being rushed by Covid, and then you ask: doesn't it be necessary to reduce the budget associated with this Microsoft deal next year and the next year, because it isn't needed? This should be done and should be done in a financial programme. There are things like this that aren't clear enough and that need to be done much better. Then there's another request for $260 million. K. an increase in payment warrants to meet the payrooms due to renovation of institutions. This request needs to be explained more fully, for the next year's transfer of funds is under the law of government funds. If this is not a Covid issue, this should not be determined in this way. I specifically mentioned one of the fees in the budget bill in return to the highest level. For example, a minister of financial matters is discussed on page 20. 70 on the bill. This is the chapter on foreigners. They're asking for 412 billion. K. an increase to the jury and there are only 19 million due to Covid. This is very special because there have been fewer global protection applications this year. People know that there are natural reasons for this. Much of the air travel has been down for months. Yet, these payments need to be raised almost a billion dollars. You ask yourself, " What will be the cost when the land opens up completely? ' I think people have to go over this, and I'm glad that it's the best. Secretary of finance said it had to be handled. I just think the government is way too suspended in it. The amount of money that goes into this category has become too high, too long to be putting up with applications, etc. This is of no benefit to anyone who applies for international protection or to those who pay for the international protection that is a trust fund. There are other factors that might be included, and I wanted to mention in particular what I also came up with in answer to the question of the Federal Bank's economic forecast. It is very important, both in unemployment and in economic growth, and it is darker than the Habitat project. It is necessary to determine whether it is normal to update the income plan because of this projection, which reflects a darker prognosis. It's clear that as it turns out, we'll see bigger numbers in terms of unemployment. We see that the largest of the budgets available in this bill is due to increasing unemployment, so it is very important that these predictions be guided by the uplifting of the government budget. It is, of course, a concern, the forecast of unemployment in 2021. This, of course, has a significant effect on the income part of the government budget and on the spending side as well as on the payoffs of unemployment. There are some things that might have been better handled, Mr. President, as far as I know. There are other things I would have liked to come on, but this is only 1st, and although time is not enough, later we can discuss all the factors that are most important in all of this. So you're also asking if the current procedure is being proposed, e.g. The proprietities we talked about today are having the desired results. That is what really matters in these types of action we are offering here, costing billions of dollars, that they produce results. Sadly, in many cases the application procedure for this strength is very complex. An enterprise has applied for the strength they have felt entitled to, and it has been discovered that they were not entitled to do so and that the company had to repay it with problems and problems. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There are some things that we need to make up for, but hopefully the committee would bring all of this into play, and so do we, who are in a position of government. [[The president calls.]] Sadly, our advice in this regard has not been listened sufficiently to, but I hope there will be a change.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u121	President. To the matter, funds. The first failure of the government was to assume that it was a temporary epidemic. You see, doing more than less rhymes with that course, hoping for the best, but preparing for the worst. Indistinguishment that this would be just a temporary epidemic has made it necessary for the government to follow the tail of the epidemic, always to respond as needed. That's even been the policy. It's not a great idea. Rather, there is no policy of visualizing the problem. Rather, it is simply action that leads to no meaningful result in future problems that we should consider more fully who may become. I think it's clear to everyone that the society that takes over the code will not be like the already existing community. Travel isn't going to be exactly the same. Yet, every action by the government has been to maintain everything before the code and to make sure that when it is completed, it can all begin again. I don't think it's a realistic policy, especially from the present. And it wasn't at the beginning of the epidemic either. To hope for the best, but to expect the worst was not the course that was taken, but it should have been that way. The optimism that characterized the work of the government led to its first response of $3 billion. Advertising campaigns directed to tourists. It tells of the seriousness of governments in dealing with many situations. This was twice the amount expected for innovation at the time. The government, however, provided light in their discussions, doubled the amount of money for innovation, and ended up in the same amount as the commercial campaign for tourists. Despite the fact that at that time there had never been so many new cases of Covid worldwide, a continuing optimism made the border open for some years. Making a decision is a very important one. When the epidemic went up into the world, it was decided to open up to tourists, and it is unlikely that the 3 billion people used in advertising would be wasted. This year has been characterized by ignorance, or rather, no assessment. Government actions have been overwhelming, and the council is not supported by evidence. There is simply no place on the table that says: The reason we do this is that the situation is this, and if we don't do it, it'll get worse or something out of the street. For example, the canals were simply placed on the table. We don't know if they're gonna come along to fix something. In fact, they didn't get anything, at least not nearly yet, and they probably haven't done anything yet. Such measures are part of the order of failure by the government in this epidemic. The measures taken are, to some extent, self - controlled, but - with a large but - no logical support for the operation except the opinion of a psychiatrist who is good and blessed by his point of view. A health minister may take the views of other stakeholders into consideration, the effects on people's mental health, unemployment, and other factors. Although the conclusion may not have been different, such reasoning should have been presented, and it was not. But it's really hard to argue with the outcome. At present, we have one of the best places in Europe, which is positive. But it is also costly. The range of money printing in government affairs has been wasted to a large extent. Out of 300 billion in innovations, money printing, some 200 billion have entered the real estate market. It is not a direct procedure to cope with a traumatic situation that is very inconsistent with people and businesses. It's so remarkable. We need a course out of the code. Hope now that everything continues as if nothing ever happened. All operations of the government have been suspended, to wait off the code, and to just go back where it was gone, as if nothing ever happened. However, the greatest challenge to that course is unemployment. I don't see any specific actions to identify with unemployment, not those that the government put in place, e.g. to the beginning of the epidemic. The government put together an idea of a three-fold higher amount of money for innovation, which came during the day to be relatively precise numbers, e.g. Compared to the distribution rate in the Technical Development Fund. The money would have made everything new. That was a fairly accurate expression of what would be needed. Of course, more would have been needed. It would have been a farsighted policy, picturing what would take place during the summer and autumn, but not just a reaction to what was happening back then. I'd like to mention a few things in general regarding public financial laws and the financial support bill we have here. In answer to the highest power. I spoke of hospital services and the posts at the National Hospital of ◯ A university hospital because of the collection of palaces that the National Hospital has to deal with. During the visit that a budget board has received at the angle, they have explained that it is because of a design problem and that it is difficult to obtain nurses, medical staff, and various health care professionals. As a result, more overtime, extra shifts, and so forth are needed. It is more expensive than it is for the hospital to have a legal service. We should make sure that the funds are available, so we do not need to cut down a service in order to weigh the angle. The classic efflux pocket is one part of this explained angle. People who have completed treatment and who need attention following treatment have no place to go. What a beautiful words, or not beautiful words, are about a very serious problem! This makes it possible for those who have completed treatment but who need treatment to be treated in an animal hospital. It costs, it makes a nest. The third big thing is, according to the highest level. Secretary of finance, the opinion of the Hospital that miscalculation was the cost of a bargain. As a result, there is a lower budget than it takes to pay for the provided collective agreements. That means maintenance action against it. In order not to cut down our service, based on all the data we have gone to a land hospital budget, the hospital has gone into a sliding business. Admittedly, it is necessary to consider this in the case of a lame person in the world's institutions. Public financial laws are very clear on what to do. The minister should immediately give a warning as to what is taking place and the suggestions for action to deal with it. Is that there? No. A year report by the Department of Health for Ministers of 2019 explains 3.8 billion. Right at the hospital like this: no explanation, nothing. They want it to appear that they do not admit that it is a legitimate explanation. However, these are explanations that have been offered for a financial committee. This is an explanation made by the Ministry. Of course, the hospital will be aware of this, but it will not be able to get into the annual report for some reason. The last item here is the transfer of funds from a micro-energy pension to a rehabilitation fund. Well, it's a story from the highest. As a result of increased emphasis on rehabilitation, 2 billion are transferred to rehabilitation. I can absolutely say that there is absolutely a need for increased rehabilitation but, and a huge deal, but, these are the budgets. What does that mean? This means that when a policy decision on the increased emphasis on rehabilitation is made, we need to get reviews about it, about its effect. We need that direction into our council to discuss it, and we need to provide financial resources for that course. It is not a decision that the Commission can take on their own business, ironing over us, and postponing funds. It's just not acceptable. It is highly and clearly against government law and, in my opinion, against the constitutions of the Constitutions on how to handle budgets and funds. It's not supposed to be done this afterwards. No dating decisions are to be made on budgets because it is ignoring a typical democratic process that allows stakeholders to make comments about whether they feel that the arrangement is good or not, whether there are any other ideas, what other options are available. It's ironed over, and just bring it into the sheep's purses. Here you go, 2 billion decisions. We're going to do this because we don't care what the managers have to say about it. We're just gonna do it anyway. This could well be a good decision. Still, she has to go through a democratic process.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u122	A respectable president. We're here on the budget in 2020. There's a lot about him to check. We can only begin by saying that the Fégagi of older citizens, the gray Army, sent out a declaration asking for equality, asking for their increases just like everyone else has. But as it turned out, we were at the top. The secretary of finance is not up to it. He believes that all of this -- going, inflation, increase in food prices and increase in Covid costs - will be rewarded with an increase in older citizens and disability at the next year's end, which is supposed to be 3.6%. However, thanks to the 3.6% increase over the next year, it is effective for the inflation. If, like the 69th grade, it were done correctly if it were followed. Social security law, the increase should be more than 6%. This increase would provide some of the things that the gray army is asking for out of modesty. This would be in the amount of money they ask, but as they point out, these 3.6% are just about 9,000 bucks. and return only five thousand. in your pocket, which is not a high amount in relation to the total cost of today and how much all expenses have been raised. This needs to be done by temporary, unpredictable, and inevitable means of spending, but it has to be said as it is not to be done. If you go to the 25th, nursing and rehabilitation services, we know that the Landspira mental hospital is not getting what he needs. There is a measure of privacy, which, of course, is completely ridiculous in the situation today of Covid. A great deal of effort has been made to employees who have been successful in this struggle. There's something else I don't see in the budget and I feel like I'm missing, there should have been a long time ago written about it, at least have some money, and this is related to the consequences of Covid. We were listening here for a reason. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson speaks of an increase of 2 billion in the rehabilitation of insurance. It's just the policy there now, they're going to pump everyone into a rehabilitation pension, nobody into disability, they're supposed to have a workout in the next year. But let it be. Therefore, we are witnessing that those who have been ill by Covid, and even those who have not been particularly ill, have had to cope with the sequelae. That's why we're forgetting. There are large sums of money to be contributed; smokeloaf, physical therapy, all kinds of rehabilitation. And even rehabilitated pensions, where people also come in, and they don't seem to share in these extras. It is as if no one is predicting the cost. We have to figure it out, we should be absolutely clear about it, that in this matter, e.g. ...incomprehensible, kind of weird, how blind this government always seems to be inside a discriminating fog. It's great that she's showing a color and she's putting $50,000 in it. one payment for disability, thanks to that. But then you don't understand why she really leaves older citizens behind. A certain group of older citizens are doing well. But we have a group that's in the striped pensions, no pensions, it's not a big group, but a group. Then we also have those who have experienced impaired farms, and 90% of them get this minimum. They've got to tighten their jammers, and I think we've come back for the last shot. But the government is always demanding a new one, and a new hole, and these parties are supposed to tighten it more. That's a shame because we're also talking about seniors who have built this country and we're supposed to be more respectful. We are not to discriminate because we are also trying to get jobs started, we see it, for example. that there is about 44.3 billion. But we must also ask ourselves, " Why are we in such a state today? ' We could have been in a much better position if we immediately left our first wave closed. We get the mutant virus, we let it into the country. As a result, today there are theaters, restaurants, swimming pools, gymnasiums and schools, largely because we did not stand on our feet, because we failed to see that things were done the same way they were done in New Zealand. If we had done so, if we had made sure that no one would be able to get into the country without going to screening and be in isolation and get back to screening, that no one would be allowed to go into the community until there was no smoking, we would not be in this position. Then we would not have to support a large group of artists and others. They might be working because they didn't have the virus. The mistake lies there, and it is a sin and shame that we do not seem to learn from this, unfortunately. I hope very much and sincerely that we will, but our appearance is not bright. This amount of money is defective in that he is separating from another trip. The group that's built this country, our older citizens, is left behind. They're not supposed to get anything from this, and they're only supposed to get 3.6% next year. If given correctly, it would be 6%. The budget says that the pay rate is 5.1%, but the explanation for 3.6% to 5.1% or 6% is some non-registered form. Of course, that's part of it. It says 69th. to put into practice pay and that is what we should do and to make sure those who are downtrodden get any help. But, unfortunately, it's not done here. But I hope that there will be a way, discussing this on the budget board, that it will be arranged to at least Those who are the worst in the population can get what they want.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u123	President. I'm not gonna have my case that far. I would like to respond only to the discussion that has been presented for this part of the program today. The government has spoken extensively about the new creation of the red thread of the Treaty. That was my choice in a talk of the highest order. Financial and economic minister that he claimed that Iceland was competitive in getting this country to a foreign movie project. Now the situation is that the reimbursement system is located in 25%. Moviemaking is by nature a innovation. In May, Icelandic film producers suggested that reimbursement from film making would temporarily increase from 25% to 35% due to Covid-19. Over the years and decades, the reimbursement system in filmmaking has proved to be good. The system system consists of a special committee dealing with internal applications. The committee shall be guided by films or TV programs that promote the growth of national culture after incidents of interest in the history of the land and nature. In an explanation of how the committee operates, the Commission considers that a review meets conditions for reimbursement, it proposes to a professional and innovation minister to grant a vote for reimbursement. A minister decides to reimburse the committee's proposal. Experienced local people claim that this increase from 25% to 35% in movie reimbursement would speed up the decision made by foreign manufacturers to arrive here on a project. There is a fierce international competition for films, and often when it comes to negotiating or trying to offer an assignment on where they go. Iceland must be the best at that competition. As the situation is now, Iceland is not well. For example, Ireland has a similar arrangement for the recycling system as well as Iceland. However, depending on where the film takes place, they have been reimbursed in a range of 32◯37%. There are some incentives there, there is a higher reimbursement if the film is taken at places where the interior needs more of this type of activity and injections. Before Covid struck, the nation's largest industry was tourism. This has been a massive blow, followed by mass launchings. In the case of foreign films, large groups of people take advantage of large groups of visitors in this country. People make good use of hotels, rentals, restaurants, and various domestic services and recreations. So the film industry has every opportunity to play a major role in supporting the tourism services and could, and could still, bridge the gap until the article ends with this Covid nightmare. Other countries do not hesitate to go that way. In Canary Islands, for example, in volcanoes such as Iceland, the government decided to go right away to raise the pay and raise it to 50%. The situation was similar to that here, one of the country's largest ways was wiped out by Covid and immediate action was taken, before others could follow. Such forethought and policy management are immensely lacking in the government's actions in terms of employment action related to Covid. It's also so direct. We have the infrastructure, and this is another way to get here to the foreign - language country of people who add money to their national building. Now, the Canary Islands are greatly benefited from this courageous action. We are even losing Icelandic people out there. Icelandic filmmakers are moving to the Canary Islands because exciting things are happening, they are creating jobs, they create national values. This is incredibly sad, Mr. President. This fact lay ahead, and it is incomprehensible why people draw their feet in this regard. A rise to 50% of the country is not even required but a very modest demand to go up to 35% is stated. V.E.G. Secretary of finance stated earlier that he was not sure where the line lays to make Iceland competitive. Then, from my conversations with people in the districts, the line being exactly where the requirement is to return from 25% to 35%, simply because the geographical countries near Iceland offer such reimbursement. In Ireland, for example, as I mention earlier, it is cheaper to install production, just because it's cheaper land, it's cheaper to buy on the set, less expensive to stand in this one. Iceland is more expensive. If you add this together, Ireland has a higher remuneration rate and it's cheaper to be there, you can imagine what producers choose, which way they decide to make large productions. So from time to time, to say that Iceland is competitive in getting foreign movie projects into this country, as is now being paid by 25%. Scotland is another fine example. Recently it became like a fire on the Netflix film Euroviation. Even things that happened in Iceland had to shoot in Scotland simply because of the problem I'm talking about here. It was cheaper to shoot an Icelandic landscape in Scotland. Again: Many jobs would arise in the simple operation of raising the reimbursement for filmmaking and the music sector. It is a industry that requires varied abilities and diversity of knowledge. You can almost link most sectors into that production, into this kind of art. Similarly, we know for sure that the local movie company is a very powerful way of marketing the country in a positive way without a direct cost. Some 40% of tourists claim to come to the country because they saw the country on television or on film or film material. Icelandic nature is unique on a global scale and it is anticipated that an indiscriminate exposure to Iceland's unstealed nature will increase over the next few hours to form over climate change. That's why we should get on the map properly in this exciting industry. As when Iceland defeated the English Menland team at the 2016 European football Continentals, the goal of building and long - term thinking in local soccer has now taken a long toll for the nation. I mentioned earlier the music industry. During the past January, the nation witnessed the triumph of Iceland's foreign nation as Hildur Guðnadóttir's daughter swept to himself all of the distinguished filmmaker's awards for the movie music they wrote for the big film Joker. Mr. President. We see how related all these articles are; tourism, film, music, audio recording, and our country, our country itself. Now we need a similar long - term thought in connection with this sector, as we have seen in the soccer world. It is a valuable export industry, and it is so direct in building film industry in Iceland and benefiting from as a nation. Here at the end, let me mention some examples of films that have been taken up in part by a local country. As mentioned earlier, Iceland has 5 percent or 10 jobs, instead of receiving the total project of billions of dollars, due to the above factors. We'll miss it. Photos and elements that have been recorded here: Brother, Foundation, Euroviation, Blind Spot, Star Trek, The Last Planet, Game of Throns, Black Mirror, Transformers, Star Wars, Everest, Fast and the Furry, and others. We'll see from this list that these are no small opportunities that are there. There are also opportunities for education and education and training. Art is research, too. Iceland is competitive, and we are faced with the problem of the highest level. The government thinks Iceland is. This will not work out if we are actually going to benefit from the possibilities we have. It is six months, as mentioned earlier, then the movie producers asked for the modest increase. This isn't the cost directly from the government box just one, two, three. This is conditional, meets the requirements of the Committee, and will follow, after the money has been brought into the country, after the financial recovery of the community. There's a refund, and only part of it. One leads to another, this builds up one another, one project is asked out. I just don't understand every beach. If there's a beach in the politics, I'll put a lot of money on it because it's national interest to all of us. We're in a crisis. There's a lot of news and unemployment around here. This must not be some political bite, as we are all too used to with various matters within and without. This is a national interest issue that needs immediate action. V.E.G. A government has shown interest, has tried, and claims that it will do something about these matters, but I ask, President, that it will do it right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u124	The president points out that in general the Icelandic Parliament is a matter. However, the rendering of movie titles is an outstanding art, and people can search for such ones. In the group Bylt Company has a dictionary to look for information on the significance of movie titles.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u125	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much. I've been listening to the discussion about billing for financial support and checking the bill. When I was in the transport and communications section, I saw that there is a suggestion that the legal rights of the tribe will be increased by 126.6 billion. K. A further proposal is made to make 140 million dollars. K. Because it needs to increase to crew, it is because of the Western island's Vestafari Island because it has to be a crew operation. Three staff need to be increased on each watch, which means that the number of employees is increasing by nine. This is an inevitable cost and is estimated at 140 million. K. Other changes in the legal rights of the tribe are due to recalculation of budgetors of 2019 and 2020 due to collective agreements made in 2020. It's just the best thing for them to do. But as I saw this, I recalled a question I proposed on November 19th, a few days ago, to the secretary of transportation for a second transport system called the British World Waral, which is traveling across the Brenufjörður River. The growth in transport, especially heavy transport, has been greatly increased, with the crossing of the Breafjörður as a result of increasing employment in the West, which is a cause for joy. The heavy trucks, or the tractors, as we call them, use the ferry a lot to get to the south, over Breafjörður. Is it also because transportation in southern Western Europe is very bad? In fact, they look to some future improvement, but they use the ferry a lot and have come all the way to leave behind trucks that are not available and that is quite a bottleneck. A call has been made for new and larger squares, both from rural communities on both sides of the distance and from a business partner on the south side of the West. It is a big task that needs to be done as soon as possible. But until a better solution comes, more trips need to be made. My request to the secretary of transportation, which I have not yet answered, was spoken about So, how much is it going to take to increase the number of trips with the British shuttle Bisús by two trips a week for the next six months? In fact, I quote business managers that it might cost some 1,224 million. There's no more money than that. That's why I'm coming up here to direct it to what's happening. The legal committee that it is taking this matter for overcoming the test so that the neck of the bottle can be fixed as this transfer across the beach, especially during the winter months, although it is the entire year, so that more trips can be made and this stopper can be released, which is a fact. It's our politicians working on improving transport. The route across the British farm is a highway, and it needs to be okay. Therefore, I suggest that a financial committee take this matter into consideration and bring this amount, not large, so that the number of trips can be increased no later than immediately. I'm not going to do this any further than thank you for this discussion, and I hope this will work out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u126	A respectable president. Last night, when we stopped talking at the council, we were talking about the people's group's prime bill, which is proud to be proud of, about the money market. In short, this bill is involved in the legislation on the change in social security laws, with subsequent changes, a payoff for pension income, instead of $25,000. the total pay market for all incomes will be a special hundred thousand dollars. free payment per month into a pension fund. This is very good, and it takes a very good first step to improve the benefits of those who have a low pension, which includes most of them as women. As the situation is today, $25,000 returns. "Preparation target, approximately 15,000 bucks." And what follows, if the person gets to say 100,000 bucks. From a pension fund, the first taxes are, up to 37%, even more, and then reduced by 45%. Anyone who knows a little about how to account will see the consequences for those who are in the lowest pension. It's a clean, smart possession of these people's pensions. At the time of his first retirement, he was not intended to cause financial damage to the people so that they were, in fact, in poverty, even in very poor condition, but was the purpose that pensions would improve the status of the individual when he entered his pension age. It's painful to think if we can just figure out what numbers we're talking about in terms of what the state's saving up with these giganists on a pension fund, they're huge. If we just take all the money, the pension fund, the employment income and everything, it's 42,410,000 dollars. If we just take the pension fund, it's 37.556,000. This tells us a story about how much money the Kingdom is reaching in this way. Only by raising the payout target at 100,000 bucks. would return those with - some may have 20,000, 30,000, others with 50,000 bucks. - if they got a ticket goal, up to a hundred thousand bucks. If they had their pension, they could use it. True, as we all know, taxes have to be paid, but they tell us that instead of a certain person's having $15,000. he could be wearing 60,000,700,000. And it makes a big difference in the small amount of money involved. We're not talking about any giants in these people. We know that striped pensions are just over 220,000 bucks, so we're not talking about any huge sums. We're talking about those who leave poverty to approach what you can survive in some way or perhaps even to the far greater. If we were to go all that way, we'd have to go much higher than $350,000. I mean, tax and inadequacies, which would be great. One of the conflict between the people of Stockholm is exactly 350,000. tax and inadequacy. But this would be a great first step in trying to get these matters started. It takes about 16 billion to set 100,000 dollars. free income every month, but, as I say, it doesn't cost. It's only being returned to the relevant money, and especially in this condition today, where the population is being systematically affected and older people are not getting the raises they have rights for. They will be left behind, just as most of the pension workers, whether they are poorer or older citizens, they can be grateful for the rise as much as the increase in in in inflation, they will not be raised because of their economic development. We know that the government after the government has seen to it that the person remains behind. This is missing. If we take it personally; personal discounts, tax increases, chicken-crowding, and everything is taken into account, then in pensions there are $350,000. tax and inadequacy. I say for my part, and we all know that it's just the lowest thing to survive with some slight restoration in Iceland. This case is the best, but unfortunately, as most cases, it is not supported by the government rather than by other matters. And as usual, we're doing this case for an empty room and not one member of the board in the hall outside Mrs. President. Sadly, as it is, it must be tragic to know that there is only a $25,000 off payment mark. This is an amazingly low number, and it is tragic because it affects those who should least. We also know that there are plenty of people with very good pensions. When people are up to 600,000,700,000, U.S.A. A pension fund doesn't get it from the social security system, but it's supposed to tell itself that while the person gets only 220,000 bucks, he's supposed to get it from his pension fund, and this is just the first step, a hundred thousand bucks. free-grading goal. I think it's very fair and I'd be great, and I'm in the spirit of what the elderly's Society has stated. Besides, as we have seen, it did not make tremendous demands on financial contributions or financial support, only for older citizens to have the same growth rates that others have received. But it's like always, it's cut down by half or more. Thanks to half of what they are to receive, or even one third, of what they are to receive. It's kind of the saddest thing in today's situation and the Covid situation that the government has found large banks in this group and put this balone on it. I'm sorry, it should be the opposite. The wide banks are the ones who are good. I want them to take this bag, not the ones who are the worst. But as usual, it's always the other way around, but I really hope they're going to see the light and do something for those who really need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u127	A respectable president. Here we are again, the members of the Gang of the People. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Inngi Kristinsson is with me on this bill. Like last night, we obviously get to own the Senate Hall for ourselves. I wish we could do as much as we could because we didn't have to make the point because there was no poverty. True, there are some who cry in the side rooms. I don't see who they are, but hopefully we'll find out. I'm sure they're going back or something because they like us so much. Anyway, a respectable president. I recommend here for a very reasonable little matter. In the large context, based on everything discussed for billions of dollars, it is a simple, reasonable matter that involves 2 mg. 53. g. The Social Security Act is added to the following phrases: The European Commission shall pay all the costs involved in the implementation of the contracts. And on 2nd. says the law is already valid. The bill was previously submitted to a 149th legislature and the 150th legislature, so as you can see, we are not entirely acquitted and do not give up, despite the fact that Congress, at least The majority of him, does not agree with what it means to give help to those who most need help. Unfortunately, it is. More often than not, you expect it to be because the rest of them probably did not have to rush through the years. But I can't quite agree with that. Anyway. The matter is now presented unchanged. It is increasingly common for pensioners to move abroad. In that case, they often receive payments from a insurance agency into their foreign accounts. Such money transfers from countries have a substantially higher cost than the standard cross-over within the country. The cost of these payments and the damage to rights on the basis of their home may be exposed to foreign pensions. One more piece of living. It's an interesting system. It's good, though, that we Guðmundur Ingi and the people's party should repeatedly call attention to it, not to mention. And hopefully this song will make it difficult to jump the system and make it understood. Let's just be clear that there are about 3,000 taps. as a social security agent has to bleed before each transfer. If he dare to flee the country, he will already be cut off because most people, at least Those I know about and have moved to countries where it is less expensive to live, less expensive to eat, less expensive to live, less expensive shelters, are trying to survive what is right from here, from their birth country, their country, because they have few other options unless they have to stay behind like the rest of the months so that they don't make ends meet and improve in order to pray for food support. That is why you wonder: " How in the world is it that these people, these social insurance workers, are not allowed to sit at the same table as others? Let us see that a insurance agency is a huge party in the contract relationship and is certainly able to negotiate lower costs with the bank. It's known that the big guy has a better deal than the little one, we know that. It's really just a matter of justice and fairness. I probably wouldn't have had an idea of this when I first proposed this case in 149, unless an old woman contacted me. She lives abroad and has for some time done so. She was totally upset. We have to figure out that $36,000. This year, it is a big bite for someone who has little or nothing. But it's really hard for millionaires to realize that. They now feel a little bit like beans, and they don't understand anything that makes them feel that much less than nothing. Every one of them that count a hundred bell count, every five hundred, every thousand. Every thousand is 1,000 bucks. worth, really, for someone with nothing. That is why I say that governments have the right to stop discrimination and try to meet them whenever possible. In fact, you might imagine and hope in the last winter of this government, because there is always a tendency to hang in the chairs that they look at these 65,000 people who are under the social security system, older citizens and desperates, and then we add to the 106,000 employees who are under industry... something. No. What's the name of this relationship again? Oh, sorry. I can't remember what's-her-name right now. You're 60 years old and you've become completely out of your mind. But that doesn't change the fact that we have low-payers, people with little more numbers than public insurance workers, little more. We now have 25,000 unemployed. You wonder: " Do you think it's a 25,000 job, just because - it's not right to just say, but I guess it's all connected to the tourist industry? Or is there something because other articles have been cut off to lock up and even to lock up this disgusting Covid epidemic? That, however, is a question that we will yet be answered. I guess we're going to get stage shots of it. But I'm not going to be wasting my time. I'd like me and Ingi Iceman to finish our business right now, before the council closes here soon, so an hour's talk about this justice is not on my schedule right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u128	A respectable president. Here, we take another matter from our people, a small matter, which is still important. Unfortunately, with a pensioner, whether an older citizen or a microenergy pensioner, the punishment begins. Plan out a judiciary system for the individual. People don't always realize that when the person is moving abroad, he's just getting reviews. Home satisfaction, strength, car strengths, drug strengths, all kinds of strength - all of this disappears. As a result, each dollar is extremely important and particularly when the government allows the currency and the gangs to swing to and fro, generally to help those who have the best, at the expense of the worst. This is a controlled operation so that those who live abroad, and those hunger lice, who have lost much of the money they had previously, are punished for possibly better abroad, but for them, each dollar is enormously important. Hence, it is only natural that when we place money from the social security system on our bank, we will have no expense and no amount of money should be worth no matter where we live. They're getting the money into our bank, we're free of charge. This cost could be minimized by moving from country to country, that is the contracting factor of the insurance agency with the bank involved. We must also realize that if we take it, for example. how we've been put up, that we know that it's a little strange how we do things. We had a great deal of repairs, which were raised in the number of people affected, with 80,000 bucks. or around it. And as a result, the improvement was considerably higher. But for some reason the lawgiver made a decision to give these people 90% of minimal pension. To put 90% on and pay for these people with millions of millions, it showed relative hunger and violations to these people. The government could have saved 2030 million by paying them rather 100%, no, they were pretty ready to build up a new system, pay more, and even pay 40 million a year to maintain that system in order to have people in 90%. All I'm saying is, what kind of stupid thing is this? That's why I say that these matters we're measuring out for are necessary. We are pointing out that things can be done differently, and this can be done in a humane way and take care to be equal to others. It is somehow incomprehensible in today's society that we should act this way, that we should be ready - and that government now in 2020 - to pay to get hold of people and let them tighten their belts 10% more than it should. It's completely incomprehensible. Sadly, though, much is incomprehensible with this government, one of which is this. But I still hope that this will go through. But as is usually true of good subjects, this issue is very likely to arise on a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u129	Madam President. I propose here a proposal to smell the chess program in elementary schools that read: ▪ The General concludes to hide an education and cultural minister to see if there is any basis for a chain of chess to become part of the primary school curriculum. Ministers have consulted Iceland's Teacher Association, Iceland's Boy Scouts, Iceland's School of School of Schools, the Steakadevia Reykjavík, and after incidents to see if there is any cause and possibility of regularly implementing chess classes in elementary schools. Ministers inform the General of the progress of the case at the spring council in 2021 Madam President. The art of Boy Scouts is deeply rooted in modern Icelandic life, and its stories clearly bear its mark. In the Orchnian country, sports may drive nine to one of the opening words that the Rögnvaldur kali Railman of Orknóttir used. In the late 12th century, chess, similar to what it is known today, is thought to have come into the country, where humans used the ancient boxing force. It appears initially to have been attributed to royal sports, but it soon spread to the public in this country. Among the other things, in 1861, there was a fistfighter found in a garter near Baldursheim in a lake band. The sheep from Baldur's World was presented as the foundation of an ancient museum in Reykjavík, so it can be said that the branch meeting was the source of the establishment of the National Museum. Then all you need to do is look at the language a little bit to see that there are words that come from the art of chess that come along with the nation for centuries. In his book Sölvi Sveinsson's Icelandic phrases, he classed nearly 600 expressions into six categories according to their origins, one of the major groups, showing clearly the depth of the power of society. Here I mention some examples of words, phrases, and phrases that are at the root of or refer to the chess or chess; to be allowed, to be on the web, to be at ease, to be at home, to be sober, to be successful, to be in touch with something, to see a game, to be able to handle or resist, to gamble on the bottom or in danger, to play on two dangers, to move a field, to play in the shelter, to play with the pope, to improve the chess, to remove the power of chess, or to improve something else, though it is usually used in a negative sense, and to say that it is often not a problem. Individual reports about Boy Scouts are also common in the general language of the country, such as the United States. home crap, which is often used, a status, a state of being totally cool, or that it is a time when much used, a tie is much used, the game ends with most sports, where neither team nor competition wins, can be seen in many forms of speech, blundering, master contest. Tremendousness is often involved in spoken language, such as, for example, the U.S. Every one of two options, to lose or to win, not to rely on half of the game, or to chess in a ruffian, which means to be bold in the hope that someone will back you up. The saying of taking someone in the bakery is not old in English and means to reprove someone who works hard. Many people claim that the expression would be derived from the time that Guðmundur Ágústsson, one of Iceland's leading chess players and bakers, was known, but chess players often went to him in the bakery and were taken to the bakery. It is believed that this expression would have originated. Madam President. The country has had many clever chess players, but by the middle of the 20th century, Iceland's locals had chess players on a global scale, the first Friðrik Ólafsson champion who was one of the national heroes of the young democracy just out of the middle of the century. In the summer of 1972, where the superpower representatives were working on the chessboard, Bobby Fischer and Boris Spassky, gave us a huge leap in the park. Today, the interest in these events continues to be more than half a century later, and many visitors take their way to the site of the world site of Bobby Fischer in Saturday pumps and visit the Fischer Museum at Selephoss. And recently, the publication of Guðmundur G. Þórarinsson's son, who was just the president of Iceland's School of the Schools at the time of the duel and then stood in the middle of the circle. Madam President. It has long been claimed that hard work is a healthy practice, and it can be said to be the common understanding. In this context, there have been long - held ideas about fulfilling the various skills of students. This has also been observed in foreign studies. We need to learn and follow certain guidelines, use our imagination, compare our options, use our thinking ability, and plan. All of these are qualities that are important for students to develop. On January 2, 2013, the minister of education and cultural education ordered a panel of basic schools with special emphasis on the influence of game lessons on learning and social skills of children, a map of the status of chess classes in elementary schools, providing data and testimony and study in international studies on the effects of game management in schools. In addition, the Committee was assigned to offer suggestions for experiments in the field of chess instruction. A report published on March 14, 2013, has been made by the Council of vindictive Schools. The committee examined a number of studies that have been conducted abroad on the influence of chess studies on students, and the results were that they included chess studies. Good effects on learning ability, concentration, imagination, memory, precursors, decision-making, analysis of emissions, abstract thinking, plan-making, multi-item, persistence, social relationships and cohesion. Regarding the values of chess practices for the advancement of social relations and cohesion within school, the report states, with the permission of President Mrs.: The focus of later studies on the effects of chess in school is how well the chess balance has proved to be social and social devices within the school walls. It thus gives different groups of kids with different backgrounds that, otherwise, do not always lead their horses together; chess gives different generations and courses of children and young people the opportunity to get to know and communicate; and it encourages different groups of students who, otherwise, tend to be isolated from one another. At that time, chess seems to reach young people who do not necessarily find themselves in the standard school frame. All of this is important, Madam President, when we consider the proposal. I'm going to complete a discussion on chess at Icelandic schools by quoting the words of a teacher from Akureyri, by permission of President Mrs.: ▪ A school is a special school for children who have not been in normal elementary school and who have no chance in it, all with behavioral problems, and almost all inhibitions, dyslexia, ADHD, and so on. They're 20 kids, and some of them are here for years. We started playing chess as a diesel, twice a week, and we are most vulnerable to the fact that we are playing games with pigs. They develop calmness and exercise their attention, realizing that the chess must be won in peace. These are not children that anyone would have believed could sit there for half or one hour thinking over a chess board. Some have explained that it is so peaceful there, and you become so confident that most days here are playing the game. But most important of all, it gives the most important well - being. Similar foreign research also has some evidence that chess is especially suitable for students in younger schools. In particular, Swedish studies on the use of chess in teaching are mentioned by teachers to mention the quality of chess in order to build a class spirit and to promote the social skills of students in chess, all of whom are equal regardless of gender, language skills, etc. Then a new student's chess program, which has difficulty focusing on conventional studies, may be a source of stress. School credits thus go well with the basics of education listed in the primary school textbook, which includes: According to social skills, there is also a basis for good and positive communication, as well as for an increasingly reasoning, critical, and solution - directed thought. Madam President. V.E.G. The Minister of Education and Culture, Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddddóttir, has been a zealous spokesman to promote chess education in schools and at a meeting with the president of the International Union in April 2019, said Minister, by permission of the President: ▪ School chess and ability to promote it are positive and open - minded. There is a general goodwill toward the chess game within the school community, and we Icelanders have been successful in celebrating the game. I welcome the indications and contributions of the chess interestees who want it to be the best way to go. Checkbook is fun, it's a game that trains skills that we truly want to cultivate in education systems, such as persistence, ability to analyze, and ability to manage. The Minister's comments would be appreciated by the 2013 Education and Culture Reports listed above. Over the past few years, chess has become a strong foundation in a number of elementary schools, especially here in the capital area, which takes place in different ways. Transporters believe that for the greater benefit, chess would be put on the principal school syllabus, especially with emphasis on the youngest level, in order to improve the quality of the students, to use it as a tool to create a good class spirit, and to give students the opportunity to grow without limits. In order for such induction to develop effectively, certain preparations need to be conducted and checked to allow ministers to consult Iceland's Teacher Association, as well as the various chess organizations that have taken care of chess lessons among young students in the past few years. In the above report on the development of chess lessons in school, school directors were eager to participate in experiments on the induction of chess classes and are convincing evidence that school chess classes were to be adopted as part of a regular class schedule for basic schools. Schools for teachers, like, e.g. Just about a year ago, in connection with a chess festival at Selephoss, where a teacher was Jesper Hall, chairman of the European Union Teaching Committee. The club has for some time held out the website in an area where it may even be. You can find videos that are especially designed for public teachers to help teach chess. I believe, Madam President, it should be simple to get knowledge and experience in order to lead a chess course in elementary school. It has been introduced into the main course of several countries and on March 15, 2012, the European Parliament adopted a declaration that European Member States should introduce chess education into the national educational system. It shows that chess is a accessible game for children regardless of social status that can enhance their social skills and reduce their discrimination. They have a positive effect on concentration, patience, perseverance, creativity, intuition, memory, and reasoning ability regardless of the age of children. Finally, it can be described as such for fun that today the crown virus is in progress by a wave of chess, with large zeppelins, both for children as adults. It may also be involved in the popularity of the broadcaster Queen's Gambit, with Anita Anyu-Taylor-Joy in the lead role. These factors, based on the 1983 history of Walter Tevis, have been very popular and have led to an increase in chess interest in many parts of the world, including the country, for this is a major factor. Madam President. I am very proud to recommend this matter here at the council that needs to be discussed and that is a great way to help children in school, to promote and encourage them and develop fine qualities, allowing them to get to know and compete, and that no one will be left out in the chess game. Everyone gets their seat at the table, and they can work out, show what they're made of. Madam President. I've had a lot of experience seeing what chess does for young people. For a long time, I was instructor to the Western Islands, a Western Continental, president of that club for a few years, and spent a few years in the board of directors of the Boy Scouts Union. I have seen with my own eyes that chess can do good to children, and how important this is for various groups of children, especially those who often have trouble; for boys, for children of other nationalities who there can find an equal way to get to know other children and share in a job, and this will enhance their social skills. Clearly, great loneliness exists among the public and in the school system for positive effects of chess on students and for those who feel that shipping is to see if there is a basis for an increase in chess program by enforcing it into the leading school textbook. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u130	Madam President. I come up here to say something about this council plan. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason of chess being part of the primary school curriculum. I have to say, I like it both good and beautiful and that it mirrored both classical and beautiful, original and beautiful. For my part, I also feel that a proposal for Congress resolutions, which adds to the importance of chess lessons, is not without a moment's purpose here at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. In this regard, I would refer to the evidence specified in the Senate arrangement itself. A traveler tore up here just a few minutes ago. Of course, I think every man and woman in Iceland realizes the significance of the chess game in our culture, I'd like to say, but the evidence is that there are also studies on the benefits, the importance and the importance of chess lessons for kids of basic school and perhaps even less social skills. It is not only in the context of our country, that abroad studies have been conducted on the effects of chess classes on students who all point in the same direction, that it seems that chess studies have not only a good effect on learning and concentration, which you may think is the most obvious of the effects, but also on the creative side of school. In particular, imagination, memory, abstract thinking, the ability to obtain a variety of solutions, and chess games have been designed to contribute to the strengthening of students, and children, in displaying cohesion and developing social relationships. I found it interesting to see in this synonym that chess is especially suitable for younger students. I have to admit that I didn't know about these tests, but I am now able to say that when you read about them and the evidence behind them and the results, it may be as though the chess is, for example. Good tools to build spirits and to promote social skills, as mentioned earlier. Perhaps because of this basic theory of chess, everyone is equal, and everyone is literally seated at the same table. Is this a matter for the General Assembly of the Icelanders? Quick, to me it is. Without hesitation, I would say that chess should be an option for children in Iceland, like anywhere else, but maybe no less in Iceland than anywhere else, just because chess is part of our culture. I would also like to add to the argument that this is in line with the ideologies that have taken control of our education systems today, the increased understanding of the importance of diversity, and so I speak out of memory ideologies, the importance of students having choices, that we don't put all students in the same shape, but find ways that each of us can cultivate interests, interests, and strengths. I would like to approach it this way, hoping that this case will cause the discussion to develop in such a way that schools will be enabled to invite students to a greater degree of chess, and students may be able to assume the reality at school and through the study, perhaps in a manner that would be a matter of choice of students and choice of schools rather than of duty. The theme is that our education system, our elementary school, and even our high school, are available and have real opportunities to invite students to this article. I'm not going to be long words, but I'm happy for this matter, and I know that other council members do the same. I believe this proposal is unsatisfied because of the translation of the chess arts in Iceland, and I believe that the chess game has a solution to elementary school, but perhaps more specifically from the polydiversity, diversity, and choice, and that I can foresee it as a means of achieving the goal of increasing the importance of chess in basic schools. I hope that the discussion on this proposal will result in an increasing weight in developing schools' potential for such training, that it is presented here that there is more than a world of Congress that can unite to play a business in basic schools, to the Ministry of Education and Education, and to the headmasters of basic schools, that students have the ability to adopt, cultivate, learn, and practice at the elementary schools of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u131	V.E.G. President. I come up here to discuss this matter as a matter of course. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason was measuring, actually I'm on the case along with other members of Congress. It says that the General concluded that he would hide the Minister of Education and Culture to see if there is any basis for a chain of chess to become part of the primary school education. To me, it's probably a matter of time before this is checked and I think the occasion is urgent. Hv. A senator and an artist handled the matter well and reasoned with it, reviewed the story, and quoted studies that have been conducted as to what chess programs and skills are good for young people, much like older ones. I myself remember when I was a young butt that I learned people's ways early, and in my childhood home, chess was played considerably, and when there were guests at a house, relatives, and friends, I even got a chess match at a few tables. This was so much fun for us kids, and we got to be with the adults, and this was the best fun, as well as the competitive spirit also had the power to win. Similarly, when I was young, I was a chess teacher, she was just an extra branch, but she was very popular, and that was also a chess match, and it was very good for you. Actually, I was never any good at chess, but at least I still know how to walk. I was not either good at thinking many games ahead of time, but it may be just like many other things in life, and it's different how clever we are to see many games ahead of time in life. But it is good to be able to learn that in your situation. The report shows that chess, as it is known today, came to a country in the late 12th century, i.e. 300 years after, or more, the land, came from the Orchnians or that area. We boast, Icelanders, that we have many chess geniuses, many masters, but it has been felt in recent years that less has been discussed, less discussion, less sparks in the chess game than it was a few years ago. I well remember the 1972 World Series, the duell of the century called when Spassky and Fischer fought a duel in Saturday's palace, and it was at every news class, and you watched well, I was only 12 years old, but I had a lot of fun of it and was very proud to see these world-famous geniuses bring their horses together on the chess board. Hv. A senator, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, handled this matter very well, and I decided on what chess is doing for young adults who are developing both physically and spiritually. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ What has been observed most in recent studies is the social and social games that have proved to be at the back of the school. It thus gives different groups of kids who have different backgrounds that do not normally lead their horses together; chess gives different generations and years of children and young people the opportunity to get to know and communicate and to squeeze a group of students, otherwise inclined to be isolated from one another. So, my opinion is that chess has a full purpose in school. I liked to hear it. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunnaldóttir, who was before me, spoke of this as a beautiful and original subject. I can totally agree with that. Similarly, at the end of her talk about the discussion and the work that is going on now as a result of this background, she said that at the end of her talk, the school can improve chess courses in the field of school. This requires some money, and it costs an organization, but it is worth the effort because of what has been mentioned above. I wish. paritaprevir Charle Karl Gauti Hjaltason's happiness in bringing up this matter, hoping that they will succeed in the committee they visit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u132	Madam President. First, I'd like to thank the members of the council who spoke up. paritaprevir The Sigurður over Páll Jónsson. paritaprevir The village of Þorbjörg Gunnlaugsdóttir, a daughter of Gunnuga, both of whom have been united in the matter and have said well about the proposal. I'm not going to list all the qualities that chess can add to the young people's lives, but right to finish this is to say that there's one thing that stands out in my opinion, and that chess gives the children the opportunity to get to know each other. In chess, things like children's language problems don't matter whether anyone is out there or something like that because all kids would be invited to sit down at the chess table. It has been shown in studies that this is a way for children who may speak another language and who have trouble getting to know the other children or in school because you can play chess without actually communicating in a language or with the person you are competing with. It breaks away the isolation of children who have different backgrounds or who are struggling. When I speak for this suggestion, I feel very important. Madam President. I know that there is already a chess program in very many schools, but it really depends entirely on the interest of the school or school manager, or whether it is available to someone who is trusting or interested in teaching the chess at the school. It is more common here in Reykjavík because this is where school directors who are interested in it can easily find people to take in chess classes. This is harder for scattered areas where it's not. This is also to balance the potential of children all over the country in order to enjoy chess at their school. My ideas about this are, in fact, that we're going to find out if there's any basis for filming chess lessons in school. Mostly, I would think it could be done at the youngest level, however it might be implemented, whether it would be one semester or two, once or twice a week. I think it would be very good to start in a little style, do an experiment on this and see how it's going. I'm the highest. Minister to welcome this. I hope the proposal is well discussed in the Committee, and I know it, Madam President, that the chess movement is keeping an eye on the progress of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u133	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis proposal to withdraw Iceland's application for involvement in the European Union. In fact, it is something that should have been done long ago. This suggests that the General concluded that the government would reassign Iceland's application to involvement in the European Union. According to one report, the Synod arrangement was submitted to the 150th legislature, and I'm measuring it for the second time, and it is reexamined as unchanged. It is now more than a decade since Iceland applied to start a business discussion about entrance into the European Union and seven years after the intermission of these same activities. Iceland's Convention Committee was dissolved in 2013, and in the spring of 2015, a former foreign minister is sent out. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, a letter to the chairman of the European Commission Council and the Commissioner for neighboring policy and the Member States' discussions that the Iceland government had no plans to re-start member talks and that Iceland should not be considered an application state. However, there is, in fact, certain uncertainty about the status of Iceland's Member States. There's complete uncertainty, it seems who it is, and not everyone agrees on whether we were actually dragging the application back or not. Following this letter, a spokesman for the enlargement department of the European Union declared that the relationship did not look as though Iceland had withdrawn its membership application and that the letter was not a resignation. According to the European Union website, changes in practices have been made following the request that the Iceland government not be seen in Iceland as an applicant state. It is not clear, however, whether the European Union views the application as being retracted or whether the relationship has only moved Iceland from a legal list of application states but still counts the application as valid. In other words, the attendance is on ice somewhere. Iceland's Member State application was proposed following the approval of the General Assembly to commit the government to the application of Iceland's involvement in the European Union. However, the General has never agreed to a suggestion that the application will be retracted. Its proposals have been provided, but they did not succeed. This concluded proposal is proposed to ensure that Iceland withdraws its application for participation in the European Union - if that's what we want. There's absolutely no reason to have this in this limo. The fact is that I believe and agree with what the European representatives say that, of course, this application was never retracted from the will that was behind the letter sent to the former foreign minister at its time. Whoever it was, it doesn't change the fact that it's Generalis, that's the lawyer, the democracy, and the lawyer, making a decision on these matters. There's not only one minister who can write a letter saying, "I don't want to see this anymore, and now it's behind and off. " Fortunately, though, our system does not function that way. It's a long time to decide, and I suppose. legislators, ministers and others, therefore, are delighted to get this out of the table, either to say that the application will be withdrawn formally or not. The rest is a different story whether there is any general desire to enter the European Union. There hasn't been one of those people's platforms at least. Otherwise, I probably wouldn't have been the one who would have stepped up to propose this synonym. But while things are the way they are, and we really have no reason to throw ourselves farther into the European Union, but, in fact, they testify through the EEA Convention, our agreement on the European Economic Area, there's no reason for these things to be in some uncertainty. I hope there's a good deal to be handled, and there's a world of Congress that will see why we can erase any uncertainty about it. The other story is so different that someone might feel uncomfortable, and maybe it'll be like our situation in The Gang of the People and other categories here that it's just going to go into the trash. Anyway.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u134	A respectable president. We're dealing with the Congress of the people's tantalization proposal to withdraw Iceland's application for involvement in the European Union, which is a great proposal and long time for us to go into. We can only watch how long the British have been trying to get out of this alliance. I think that's enough for us to realize that in there we have nothing to do. Britain was a nation inside, but we are a small nation. Sadly, only the European Union has to say that it takes a few nations and swallows them at one bite for breakfast. They don't have a chance in there. There's no way they can handle this. We must also realize that one of the main reasons British are having so much trouble getting out of the European Union is the battle for their fishing grounds. We can imagine what the situation was like on our fishing grounds in front of the British. They only get about 30% of their fishing grounds. The nations around us have a legacy that the British are going out, and they cannot continue to gain their profitable fishing grounds. Then, too, we look up how the Czech, Hungarian, Spanish, Portugal, and Greeks resented there and how they got out of the bank collapse, were in the midst of this ill - treatment of the European Union. I've once known this blessed battery and come to the European building in Brussels. The thing that hit me the most was that I was at a poor conference in a gold palace. This showed how they feel about poverty that they wanted to hold the poverty conference in gold and as fancy as they could have, which is, of course, a complete contrast to the subject. This decision was made to protest poverty outside European headquarters. I've never seen anyone so panic because people suddenly discovered that they had forgotten to ask permission to protest outside the European Union. I watched it with the wonder: To get permission to protest poverty? And I thought to myself, " What prison have these people come to? ' Less than 50 percent dared to protest without permission. The conclusion was that there was no incident. We got to protest, and there was nothing to fear, but the fear I saw stabbed me because, yes, people living in poverty and fighting for their business. This showed me that there was great fear of this power institution. It also tells us that we should avoid that office of authority, such as the hot fire. We have nothing to do in there, and we're just supposed to pull out this service, if it's there, and make sure once and for all that we're not there. Today, we too can look to the British and join them outside the European Union, along with other countries, such as Norway. We are, I think, in much better company outside the European Union than in it and we can allow those who want to remain in it. I hope that a lot of council members would accept this here at the council if it was a vote. Only a few people are still thinking about getting into the European Union. I don't think that's where we have no business a long time ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u135	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for a resolution of the elderly's interests, no less. With me at the suggestion is the fine council member, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. The conclusion says: ▪ The General concluded to hide the Ministry of Social Affairs at the end of 2021 to present a bill for the office of the senior representative of the interests of the elderly. That's not much later for the highest. Minister of Social Affairs to proceed with this now, this is the last winter this government operates at least unchanged. I don't know what's going to be here for the next fall, but it's just gonna come out. According to a report on the proposal, the Synod arrangement was submitted to 149, the legislature and the 150th legislature, and now it is restored to the same place. This proposal suggests that the Minister of Social Affairs is to hide the Department of Child Affairs to prepare and submit a bill to the legal office of the elderly. Service to the elderly is distributed in lands, communities, communities, and private members. The laws and rules on the case of the elderly are complex, especially in the area of taxes, social security, and health. The elderly are a large, varied group of people, and there are different ways of caring for their own rights and interests. Thus, according to the moveers'opinion, there is a great need for proverbs that will protect the elderly and guide them in their rights. The emissary of the elderly is intended to call attention to the elders'rights and interests in general, both in public fields as well as in private, to guide the elderly in their rights, and to respond to the impression that they are violated. The elderly's economist should take initiative watch over the personal situation of all older citizens, especially in the prevention of social isolation, lack of nutrition, and their general poor equipment. At the same time, he shall make proposals for improvement in legal requirements for the elderly and take the initiative toward a targeted discussion in the community on their issues. Such suggestions have previously been made for a council but not to be paid off. I don't really know if I should list how many members of Congress have been tempted to do so and really tried to call for a trusted agent, this official, to put their arms around an older man's group. It is likely in seven or eight legislatures, which have been proposed to an agent of the elderly, often the proposed name, which actually includes exactly the same as the stakeholder, and at 136 CREEP. Suggest a proposal for a hearing in the elderly. In our opinion, there is good reason for us to let the elderly'presence finally lead to the establishment of an office of interest. If ever, it is now. Even if we're not talking about poor older people, if we're just talking about the elderly, we're now going through a pandemic crown virus, and the elderly are the most delicate group, a group we're really supposed to take in and protect by all the available means. It was a two - year - old survey of how real equipment was available to older citizens who had been published by Landakot and who had an independent home. Yet, they were home alone. The self - righteous layer of livestock meant that they were alone and isolated at home. There may have been one malt bottle in the fridge, one bottle of light, they didn't trust themselves to go to the store, it was a bottle. They were just home. Adults don't want to get in the way, they don't want to call friends and family, and they don't want to get in the way. It is only a quality that we cultivate as we grow older. It is our to put our arms around these people and show the initiative to protect them. It's our job to watch Mom and Dad and Grandpa and Grandma. It is for us to show them respect and appreciation for what they have done for us, that we who follow us and are building up what they put in our arms, that we show them respect and affection, and that we say to them: " We love you and we want to do everything in order to make you feel comfortable. ' This election proposal for the representative of the elderly includes exactly this: We love you, we want you all the best, and you, Dad, Mom, Grandpa, and Grandma, are really going to enjoy a lifetime of care.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u136	A respectable president. We in the Gang of the People are here measuring for another matter, a very needed case that has been called after a long time. Sadly, the call has not been answered for some reason. It seems that it is very difficult for a government to see that someone stands up and can defend our older citizens. As shown in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir I'm sorry, however, that Sæland Happyland is a problem in many countries when older citizens are being discharged from hospitals and sent to their homes unsupervised, that there is no one to care for them, the person may be alone, their spouse gone. In such a situation, older citizens often find themselves in a very bad place, both spiritually, physically, and financially. There must be someone who has their best interests at heart and who will protect them, so that they can get all the help they need. Sadly, we often use unbelievably ugly words about the problem when older citizens are in hospitals because they need space elsewhere. There is nothing but a hospital graduation because there is no room, and there is a government that makes sure that there is no room. At that time, this absurd, demeaning word, the efflux problem, is really a problem when something is to run away from someone, but it could actually be applied to sewage rather than to the older citizens of this country and is to their disrespect, and we should stop using that word. We're supposed to tell the truth clearly: It's a graduation problem. This is a problem with the government. This is their problem. There is not enough room to take over. Sadly, though, there is something else that is very annoying and that is a waiting factor. There are waiting lists to get into a room and not enough of it, there is a waiting list to get on a waiting list to get into a nursing room. As I've said, one waits for them to make a waiting list to get on a waiting list to get on a waiting list, three-way. I can't believe we're going to act like this. Besides that when they finally get into a nursing home, in many cases they are taken away from all financial power and are given just a allowance. What a disgrace. We can say that we may give allowance to young people, but we're not supposed to treat older people this way, take total financial power, and feed them some hunger lice in allowances. We are to have much more respect for older people. We're talking about Mom, Dad, Granddaddy, Grandma, we're talking about people who have every right to be treated with respect and to treat them in a way that they're left behind after a long career and after building up our community. As we have seen, now in the Covid epidemic, this is the forgotten group. This is the group to leave behind. They're these wide banks that are supposed to get their shit together with Covid, and it sucks. It's really amazing that they still have one more trip to find this group. Why can they do this? Yeah, because there's no commission to defend him, and it's about time. This has been pointed out, and it has been a long time to make sure that these issues are not the way they are today, that they will make sure that they have respect for the elderly, that they have the right to the full human rights, and that they will be raised in the ways that they have perfect right. It sucks to know that it seems like there's a way to raise everyone and give everybody the rightlimony except to this group. It's like there's a lot of stone to the government after the government says it's a big bum, it's the people who are supposed to take on the load. But this is not true, and it is particularly pathetic that they cannot see to it that those in this group are helped.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u137	A respectable president. You see, I completely forgot one sentence I had promised myself that I would always say when we finished our speech. It's just this: People's party only says one thing, it's the people first, so all the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u138	Madam President. It is a sad reality that the number of hate crimes associated with religious reasons has increased in recent years. Religious crime has increased in Europe 70 years after World War II. This has only been seen in September when three man - made attacks were made in France, where four people were motivated by religious intent and on November 13, five years had passed since 130 people were killed for religious reasons in a terrible attack at Bachalan and other places in Paris, where there was one of the most deadly attacks in France. These are just some of the terrible crimes committed in the name of religious fanaticism and hatred against others but those who believe in exactly the same thing. That may be the point of the case I'm moving here. Madam President. The case was previously given to the 150th legislature and is now reassigned. On January 27, each year, the Parliament's decree suggests that the memory of the victims will be adopted, but that day in 1945 the Soviet army delivered prisoners from Nazi concentration camps in Auschwitz, Poland. All of the countries of ÖSE will remember this day and remember the Holocaust in some way, all but Iceland. In Denmark, Sweden, Finland, and Norway, death is at least on January 27, each year. In many parts of the world, it is remembered in various ways, such as by memorial services, visions of the history of the Holocaust, or by special instruction in schools. Sweden has a unique theme that is stressed every year. For instance, in 2012 the theme was the memory of Raoull Wallenberg, a Swedish official who saved a number of Jews in Hungary. In 2014, Sweden emphasized the memory of a death victim in the Holocaust. In 2015, when 70 years passed since that event, the liberation from Auschwitz was particularly remembered in many parts of Europe. By adopting this day the memory of the victims of the Holocaust, future generations in this country could be informed of the consequences of hate crimes. Thus it would be possible to prevent prejudice and an increase in the incidence of such crimes between different religious and social groups, so that there would be no recurrence of such crimes in the second world war. Such a memory day affords the opportunity to remember the victims of the Holocaust and to counteract racial prejudice and hate speech based on religious discrimination to create a more peaceful, tolerant, and better society. Madam President. I'm not gonna give this speech any longer. At these times, as I could see at the beginning of my speech, we are seeing certain tendencies in many parts of Europe, not just in France, such as attacks on the tombs of both Jews and Christians, and we see evidence that religious persecution is being crushed by a large proliferation of similar hate crimes, which, in turn, lead to murder of people, whether by their hard work to pray or as in the case of the teacher Samuels Patys, who was simply teaching his students about freedom of speech and was weighed in a horriest way outside her school. These are examples of how tragic it is that we begin to see the evolution that we want to stop. By remembering this day, there is both the opportunity that Iceland will not be one of the SE countries that will not remember it in any way and that will instruct future generations and us here on the consequences of hate crimes and hate propaganda toward those who are different from our own.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u139	Madam President. First, I want to thank you especially why. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir, the first member of this council's resolution that Iceland remembers the deathbed on January 27th of each year. I'd like to say, Madam President, it's a long time for such a suggestion to be seen here at the Council. It would have been wishful that this proposal had been established here at the last assembly when it was first submitted so that the Icelanders could have remembered publicly that January 27, this year, 75 years had passed since the Soviet army delivered prisoners from Nazi concentration camps in Auschwitz, Poland. As indicated by the proposal, all Member States of the European Union are reminded of some way in which they live, including the North countries, all except Iceland. Madam President. We can't be known for that, it raises questions, and I think it's only necessary to answer the question why Iceland hasn't, one country in European partnership, see a reason to remember the Holocaust. The General Assembly of the United Nations adopted in 2005, in a special conclusion that on January 27, there would be an international anniversary of the Holocaust. However, several nations, Germany, and Britain and others had before that time remembered it annually. The resolution of the General Assembly encourages all members of the United Nations to remember the Holocaust in particular. In addition, it is emphasized to teach everyone about these terrible events in an effort that they will never repeat themselves. A growing Jewish spirit is that of concern. In the United States, Jewish attacks between 2017 and 2018 were doubled. In particular, though, Jewish hatred grows in continental Europe, where the same problem led to the attempt to exterminate Jews 75 years ago. During the past three years, one another has been worse in Britain, France, and Germany, where Jews have recently been warned not to wear yarmulkes in public because of the threat of attack. The spirit of the Jews is given to both wings, one from the racists to the extreme of the wing, and one against the spirit of Israel. Millions of immigrants from Muslim lands now living in Europe have been introduced into a deep - seated hatred for Israel and Jews. For a long time, Jews in many European countries claim to have felt a growing hatred for them. This hatred is expressed in various ways. They are known to be in the streets, and shouting is done on the streets, beating them in stores, getting an increasing number of threats on the Internet, a more intense tone than previously seen in the articles, showing up in the media, and talking on radio and television. A survey of thousands of Jews was conducted in Europe not long ago, since 89% of them reported that in the past five years, an increasing hatred was apparent and that 38% of them were considered moving away, feeling that they were no longer safe. The results should not be surprising. The fight against Jewish hatred is described as a battle that Europe cannot afford to lose. In contrast with what France represents, the president of France, Emmanuel Macron, last February, is quoted as visiting a Jewish cemetery. There the swastikas had been written on 80 missions. There are many cases of the profaning of Jewish cemeteries in Europe. The Jewish community in the Netherlands reports that Jewish hatreds increase from year to year and that Jews in Europe experience insecurity, shouting and shouting, as well as being under attack because of their origin. Dutch government officials say that Jewish attacks have increased greatly, and in most cases, it is the newly formed Muslim population responsible for the harassment against Jews. The children of the Jews are being harassed, attacked, crushed in Jewish prayer, and thrown by gasoline bombs. Even political leaders in Europe have allowed Jewish hatred to prevail within their ranks and to participate in political parties. The best - known example of this is found in the British Labour Party, where Jeremy Corbyn was expelled from the category on the issue. Judicial prejudices against Jews could no less be found in Iceland in earlier times. According to historian Þór Whitehead, during World War II the Icelandic government followed Dana's course in a secret and clear way not to let Jews into the country. Yet, the Icelanders had much compassion for Jews after World War II, and Iceland played an important role in the establishment of the kingdom of Israel in 1948. The Israelites are remembered figuratively in Israel, and the people of Israel have not forgotten that, as I have experienced. The association between Iceland and Israel was long well and substantially reduced over the years, particularly as a result of Israel's occupation of Palestine, which we condemned. Here, though, I assure you, the Israelites have great respect for Iceland and regard us as a friendly nation. On one occasion, I applied for the Holocaust in Israel. There is a powerful museum for the Holocaust. Now the collection numbereth many buildings, and maketh no one to be unmoved, and is called to account. I encourage all who come to Israel to see the museum in Jerusalem. Madam President. Less and fewer people know what the Holocaust is and what it was about. This is especially true because of what it needs to be remembered. According to a survey in 2018 in the New York Times, 66% of the Americans aged 183/4 are not aware of Auschwitz, nor did they say that Auschwitz was a concentration camp. In all, 41% of the United States didn't know what Auschwitz is. Some 400,000 survivors of Nazi Holocaust are still alive. Most of them are in their 80s and 90s. These are Jews, homosexuals, Jehovah's Jehóva, gypsies, Communists, and others that the Nazis thought were not entitled to live. Of these, there are over 189,000 Jews who survived the Holocaust in Israel. The farther the events go by, more than 70 years have passed, the less the focus is on knowing about these horrible events, learning about them, and talking about them. I'd like to say it's a lot and it's necessary for us to make sure these events don't forget. We need to make sure that future generations of Iceland know this story. We must learn from it, can relate it to world wars that take place each day, and the increasing number of hate crimes. We need to make sure that everyone knows that human rights are fundamental human rights. This terrible event in human history that the Holocaust is never forgotten. He is not that far away from us in time, and we are to remember him in a special way, as are other nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-26-26.u140	Madam President. I'm here offering a proposal for a hearing about social advice in elementary and higher schools. So the motion goes: The General concluded to hide a minister of education and culture, in agreement with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Children's Affairs, to establish a plan on how to ensure that in high school societal advice can be undertaken by students. Ministers also agree on the subject of the European Union and Iceland's Social Management Association, as well as other partners, as appropriate. The secretary for the General report on the project no later than April 1, 2021, and shall follow up with the budget and proposal for the financial exchange arrangement. Madam President. This resolution was previously proposed to a Council of 150th, with a case of 647 C.E. The proposal suggests that the Ministry of Education and Culture will be committed, in consultation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Childbearing, to establish a plan on how to ensure that in the elementary and higher schools the work of societal advice that students can seek. The aim of the proposal is for students to have a social worker service regardless of the size of school, but their status ratio could, for example, be Follow the number of students. A minister is commissioned to expand the field service program. It is suggested that the secretary also consult the issues of major stakeholders, such as the European Union of Iceland's Community Association and other relevant association organisations, e.g. It's Iceland's Teacher Union. Thus, the need for effective consultation with children and young people in these areas is highlighted by the movers. The Minister's report to the Generals on the project should include: will offer suggestions on the next steps and the diagnosis of the need to make adjustments in order to reach the end of the Parliament's resolution. Madam President. In recent years, a number of studies have shown the importance of early development in socializing with children and young people. Scholars have noted that no platform is as ideal as the school to prepare youths for complicated lives in complex society. The experience children receive at school can have a positive and long - lasting effect on their social well - being, so it is important to view school as a key factor in prevention and child support. In this regard, there are children who are affected by family events, such as divorce or death, children suffering from neglect and violence, and children who live in poverty. Icelandic and foreign studies have shown that children living in the above - mentioned situations have more psychological problems than other children, and they are at higher risk of learning problems and removal from studies. Concomitant social change in recent decades, which have included The role and circumstances of Icelandic families have increased the social responsibilities of school and have involved various projects. This situation puts extra stress on teachers and other school workers because of the many solutions they face in caring for the well - being and well - being of the students. In this regard, a joint study of the European Union's rural society and the 2012 elementary - school teacher society was conducted with a view to getting a closer picture of various factors that are subject to the school and the work of teachers. The results showed that three teachers out of four said that the pressures in the ministry had increased greatly. In particular, when asked about what was most difficult in the ministry, teachers mentioned the following factors: cooperation with parents when a child is not given sufficient help at home because of insufficient home circumstances, student behavior, and increasing numbers of discipline problems, complicated harassment, which are difficult to uproot and child - welfare issues, where neglecting children is hard to see. The results of a recent study of survival and the experience of professional staff primary school support students with learning difficulty also indicate that pressures are increasing. Increases and uncontrolled pressures are related to the well - being of each child. The results show that teachers are eager to see children struggling with feelings of distress, family trauma, poverty, and social excommunication, and to experience helpless experiences in this situation. According to the teacher, there is a lack of assistance from professionals in such matters. Madam President. The beginning of school social workers is traced to the United States around the turn of 1900. The reason for the school management of social workers was that their knowledge of social problems, such as poverty, poor health, and social status, and the impact of such situations could have on children was considered important for school. At first, the work of the social advisers consisted mainly of being contacts between homes and schools and identifying causes behind the problems of children. Today, schoolmates are active in 53 countries, including the United States, Britain, and all the other northern countries. There is no reason for us not to recognize that this is a reasonable arrangement and should do the same in Iceland. Based on information from the National Institute of Education and School Association Advisorship in Iceland's Social Management Society, there are 12 schools in this country, of which, eight basic schools and four high schools. And the experience in schools where social workers have shown that this is of utmost importance. The aim of a school social adviser is to identify and assess factors that can affect the learning process and general feeling, and to work on further development of pre-caution and support for students to ensure that all can enjoy themselves in the school environment. With their knowledge of individual development, family relationships, legislation, services and social resources, schoolmates make a crucial bridge between schools, families, and society. With an overall vision, they cooperate with other professional members in school and other institutions in a cross-border approach, as well as counseling and counseling teachers. The theoretical approach and professional basis for a social worker's work programme are based on overall vision and system thinking. And to be told here, this proposal is not at all about a student counselor's substitute for a school counselor or in place of psychologists in school. Rather, it's about multicenter cooperation within school with students' interests in mind. But it's not really a similar job, even though all of them have the same goal, i.e. to care for your child's interests. Madam President. We live in unprecedented times, in the time of the Covid epidemic. Sadly, as noted in the news, we have seen a tremendous growth in announcements to child protection. So it was recently observed in the news that the Children's Health Table has already become more than one year, and within the first ten months of the year 10% more announcements than last year. As a result of the epidemic, children seem to be more rooted and becoming less safe, as well as increasing domestic violence where children are present. There is evidence of increased risk behavior in children. Madam President. This is a concern, and we still have to deal with the social consequences of the epidemic for the next few years and wind down the situation. The fact is, although vaccination may occur, hopefully as soon as possible, it's not over. Icelandic children are members of families, many of whom face difficult economic situations, social problems, and long-term health problems related to Covid. These children need support, and the best way to support them is to give them school support. In view of the increased pressures school is faced with caring for students in a more sensitive position, it is urgent to increase the number of social workers in elementary and higher schools. Social advisers work from a comprehensive perspective on their individual activities as well as the cooperation of school with other welfare institutions involved in the services of children and their families, such as child care and social and health care. In this way, school can better care for its well - being and a more preemptive work in order to prevent problems from developing and becoming manageable with the resulting cost to society. According to the movers, this step would be taken to promote prevention and early intervention that would result in greater efficiency and efficiency in the services of children and their families and would therefore be involved in asking for the removal of students in high school. The parties of the proposal are left behind. Councilmen: Elíasdóttir Friidífjörður Elisdóttir, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Ólafur Ölfur Ágústsson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Guðmundur and Thorsson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Logi Einarsson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, and Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjonótsdótir.
