ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u1	President wants to announce that at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee, April 22, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson was elected the 1st vice president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u2	There have been letters from financial and economic secretary, marine economist and agricultural ministers, and foreign and development co-Progressor requesting deadlines to provide written answers to contracts as per official financial legislation. 1162, 1163, and 1164, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u3	To answer these questions, Prime Minister, Transport and Regional Ministers, Health Ministers, Tourism, Industrial and Development Ministers, Social Affairs and Children's Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u4	President. It is a pleasure to see that the great criticism received by the government's second relief package has returned to the extent that it suddenly announced a meeting to improve its actions. I think it's safe to say that it was unexpectedly added and to the point that it did not take time to put members of the Constitution into what they were supposed to agree on. It may be said that the government is moving forward on with its directives. In any case, the key point is that the measures are working properly and that they fall short of handling the situation. This is certainly an important addition to what was presented a few days ago and positive that the government has seen reasons to respond to the criticism that took place. However, while many positive things are happening, questions also arise, especially about the fact that this is still unattainable in much of the time. Then you recall the first pack of action that was said to have a scope of 230 billion, although it was not quite so when you did well. Today, almost six weeks later, the largest operation there involved so - called bridge loans, apparently not yet being carried out. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister: When will this be accomplished? Minister introduced this morning? When will that be accomplished? When, if ever, will the bridges get started, the main measure of action in the first pack of measures? When will it be carried out?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, was busy in his inquiry. I want to start by saying that this did not necessarily have to be an unexpected situation. A senator was surprised. It was foretold when we introduced the initial part - time work route that it would be introduced before the fast - approaching month April/mai convention. The part - time ministry has proved to be an enormously important way, both for people and for businesses. 35,000 people, including 14,000 from tourism but also from different sectors, such as services, shops, and construction. It's been a hell of a ride. However, when it was completed, the result was that it was not sufficient to extend the part - time work in the same form. It will certainly be extended in the same form for the next two months, but then the conditions will change so that the employment rate will rise from 25% to 50%, which will help the job to get up and spend jobs. However, there will be a way of supporting a company to pay their dues on notice. It hangs with a third action related to hastening financial renovation. When will these actions take place? You're right. A senator says, and I noticed earlier, that the bills are not ready. They will be presented to the heads of all classes at the council before they will be submitted. The policy has been taken that they will enter the council in the first part of May, while it has been suggested that these be translated from May 1. As for the bridge loan, the Ministry of finance has completed a contract with Iceland's Secret Bank on it, and I'm going to find out more about it in the second answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u6	President. It would have been better if it was the highest. The prime minister would have used the time to answer the personal question about the bridge loan rather than to talk about the part - time improvement that the government has now introduced that it will reduce donations. What, though, are the plans of the government, the government, for the future? We'll see now that it's the highest. The prime minister described it after the second pack of measures that further measures might be expected before the end of May. True, May has not ended, and this reaction to criticism by the government - it is very good and positive that the government takes criticism and responds to it. But when can we expect to see some perspective from the government in response to this in order to form with regard to Icelanda? To this end, governments are primarily involved in supporting companies to quit. And how many packs will there be? V.E.G. Industrial Minister says they'll be at least ten. V.E.G. A secretary of transportation says that it is just some nonsense created by journalists. [[The president calls.]] But when it's better to look, it's the highest notice. Secretary of the trade. What's government policy on all these packages?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u7	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson rejoices that I take good criticism, and I view it as a great compliment, for I have always appreciated politicians who can accept criticism. I think it's a good choice for politicians. But he also shames me for not answering questions. Then I object to asking questions why. A senator is a common figure, and much of this is limited. I want to finish what I just said here. The Ministry of Economics and the Federal Council has completed their budget agreements. It is very important that they get on the job right away, since this is a major operation and the banks have been given a considerable incentive to take advantage of these bridge loans, which are not just about 70% of their national accountability. It is also about reducing fluctuation balances, accelerated decrease in bank tax, etc. It is very important that these measures succeed. How many packages will there be? "asking. Senator. We are in a crisis that will likely be found in the history books as one of the most unexpected but also the deepest crisis we have ever faced in the republicry era and even though it is longer to be searched. [[The president calls.]] Will there be further action? [[The president calls.]] Of course. We are in the middle of the storm. In fact, we see an increase in the spread of infection by the outbreak in countries that are reducing the limits. [[The president calls.]] We will need to be very flexible and mobile to respond.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u8	A respectable president. I want to say right away that the steps that were taken with this package today were correct. He can be called a panic pack, but these were definitely important steps in the right direction. Especially am I glad that the government has taken the criticism that was much after the presentation of the last package. Criticism was very high, and I am especially glad that the government listened to both the government's opposition and the professional life in this regard. Of course, you still ask, " Why aren't the big steps taken right away? ' It's been six weeks since the highest. The secretary of finance said that it would be better to take bigger and greater steps than smaller. I agree with this, and most of us at the government stand have agreed with the criticism that the steps have not been taken. All right, I'm not gonna criticize the government. We must bear in mind that the government in my opinion made the right decision to follow the CDC and close the country. However, government decisions actually began to close travel. Then it won't be for the government, because it's her decision to associate with the tourism service as if it were meant to help her out of this slip of some favor and over the handle. That's not the way to approach it. Therefore, I encourage the government to speak more clearly. I find that after all this time, things are not even ready. The press conference is always ready, but it's not. I think it's very strange. I reiterate my questions to the highest. Minister: Will we remember this week and the next will have more steps? V.E.G. Social Affairs said that these packages should contain the premises. [[The president calls.]] They are not included in the package he preached. I'm highlighting past questions to the highest level. Minister: How many packages and how many operations will we hear in all the following days and weeks? I'm asking the government not to push the case until the end of the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u9	Mr. President. As I have said from the beginning, I have listened to the discussion that is in the community of all political parties at the General, labor movements, and professional drivers because it does not matter where good comes from. What was presented here, however, was totally aware that we said clearly, not at our last press conference, but when the part - time work route was introduced, that it was absolutely clear that we would need to introduce her to us sooner or later. Why is that done, asking why? paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, before the bills are ready? There was a clear explanation of what the government's intentions were before this month's convention. They needed to be laid. Of course, now the bill has begun. Hv. A senator asks about a timeline in this. This will be dealt with by the General in May. What else will happen? I don't know why. Senators watch the same media as I do, but I think you do so many, and so all countries are faced with a lot of uncertainty when it comes to economic operations and different scenarios. This is not a means to support travel services by means of the procedure we presented today with no favour. They're meeting a 75% - income drop because of the circumstances in which they can live, so that they can live up to their commitments, and that's not a favor. The question of how long this will last and how many packages will be is simply not possible to answer. Further matters will arise in May. Hv. A senator refers to the declarations of housing, and we expect them in May, and they will be introduced when they are and more. [[The president calls.]] It's simply a condition that calls for us to stay on the watch, not just for the next few weeks, but for the next month and a loss.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u10	A respectable president. It is in itself interesting to the highest. At least part of the council, the prime minister intends to observe news and others do not. But I'll let it lie between parts. What I want to emphasize is that the step is in the right direction. What I didn't understand, however, is, and it's just the past one, why the part-time shift wasn't introduced last week. I don't need to be told that the government was surprised that there's a month's match this week. It hasn't changed. A company needs a much clearer message until just around the month - to - month match and a difficult date for business. But I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers - because the procedure is still marked by postponing payments, offering loans, which are good in themselves as long as it is being done more efficient - will it work? Does it show a certain understanding of direct support to an enterprise, especially in the tourism industry, which has just been damaged by the government's decision? She will show it understanding, she will look at it, going in direct support of the companies to do so. that they can maintain a link with valuable foreign countries in order to make it possible for tourism companies to communicate with tourism halls, to maintain their link to the minimum share of the company's activities. Supported by the government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u11	The President reminds us of a time limit, both of us. It's forlorn and highest. Ministers have been a little down on them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u12	Mr. President. I'm sorry if I haven't respected the time limit. Thanks again. A senator for the record. It was decided here, which has been widely supported, to comply with the treatment provisions proposed by the health authorities. These measures were in harmony with the WHO suggestions. Has it been critical that this way was taken? Yes, because it has economic influence. However, we set our priorities for health care programs, health plans, lives, and said: "We will deal with the economic consequences. Hv. A senator asks for direct strength. What is involved in such action but direct strength? Of course, the part-time service and the support of companies to pay their dues are sponsors to companies, but they certainly make it strong that we do so from the point of view of remuneration because the aims are that we are defending jobs, defend the rights of employees, and support our companies in the country. These objectives are met by these actions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u13	Mr. President. We all know how important it is for us to have a safe flight. We have much to do with the regular and reliable access of people and goods to the land throughout the year. We have a serious situation here, so I'd like to ask the highest level of questions. Prime Minister on the government plan to ensure flying transport and Icelanda state. Clearly, the actions presented earlier today will not guarantee long - term Icelanda activities. Thousands of people depend on the company's activities, and it is important to the Icelandic public and to society that the work and work of Illelands are protected. This will hardly be done in the present position except by the state's handsome approach. But it does not matter how it is done. We must choose ways in which the public interests are concerned and that the government's funds are well spent, that there is a chance that there will be some chance of getting money back when it gets better. V.E.G. However, the secretary of transportation told VUV this weekend that Icelanda's project was to get herself out of the problem and that the government was primarily paying attention. I haven't heard the highest. The prime minister points out special ways for Icelanda to deal with this problem, however, this has been done by the head of the Economic and Business Committee, why. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmson. He said in the news at RUS this weekend that there would be no way that the state would be involved in Icelanda's business, whether for a short or longer time, but it would be an option to lend the company a recessive loan. It's the highest. Prime Minister agrees with the head of the Economic and Business Committee that it is not up to the State? Is she willing to agree that the company is to be borrowed, or should the state rather arrive in a special business venture? She even wants the State to have a share in Ictelanda, or she wants her to watch the sideline and thus stand at the highest level. - Secretary of transportation?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u14	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A new Oddný Harðardóttir for this inquiry. It is true that some have developed ideas about the future of Icelanda. I'd like to say first that Icelands is a very important company, not just for flying to and from the country, but that it has been the foundation of international tourism and the key to its growth in recent years. But I'd like to say it here, because of what. A senator says that the procedures presented this morning are irrelevant, that it is not. They will certainly be very important in this enterprise and will support it in the current work that is expected to raise more share money into the company. I believe it is very important that the plans that the Society has presented to gather new stock funds can follow. Do I believe that this society has a future? ' Yes, but the next step in that partner is to take on a new section, not just from his own shareholders, but also from more prisoners. I haven't ruled out any government access to these matters, but it's important that the company make its plans and have its vision clear before it happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u15	Mr. President. I allow me to state that the measures presented earlier today will not guarantee long-term Icelanda activities. Of course, they'll make a difference, but they won't guarantee the operation. However, it is important to do so. When I'm at the highest. Ministers are talking about Icelands. I think they're like a hot cat. They may be afraid to talk about the delicate position of a company on the market, perhaps they are afraid that the market will collapse, but the markets are already on the side. That's what worries me. Governments of other countries are not afraid to discuss and come up with a systematic business like airlines. There are many examples of this worldwide. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she is not also concerned about the community security underneath if this systematicly important business breaks down. [[The president calls.]] I think, chief. President, that we have to face the fact that the government has to come in somehow and that it is important that the public's interests be kept in mind and that there is any hope for the money to come back.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u16	Mr. President. We're gonna go for a second. A senator agrees on the importance of Icelanda, and as I mentioned earlier, it is not just because of flying, which is community security. A senator refers to, rather, the Society has been a key member of the development of transport services in Iceland and has every ability to be a key member of the operation of the resistance industry. Of course, because borders are closed, society's standards are heavy. We're not flying from country to country, it's all morning light. But it is also crucial that the Society finishes its plans and plans to gather new parts. I believe that those plans can be successful. But I reiterate what I've said before that I don't rule out that the state will come to a later stage.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u17	A respectable president. One pack of the rest comes from the government of Covid. One package has happened to the elderly and desperate, the constant series of events, the Hunger Games. How long will they eat what's outside freeze? At the same time as this, the government has promised 20,000 bucks. ... notlastlastmonth, not next month's out, but June 1st. In the meantime, microspheres should harden the latrine. At the same time, the rise in the decline in micro-terrestrials has increased from 10 billion 2015 to 16 billion 2019, 60%. 16 Billions are impaired, and the Microcracy is asking a minister for answers but unable to respond. Let us see that there was a report from one neighborhood in Britain that distributed 250 food plates a week. Today, the British have to appoint 250 tables a day. What's the situation in Iceland? Iceland's family help published that she was going to give food to those living in e - mail number 1013/4116, which divides the neighborhood. Why? Because she can't provide more food, things have become bad. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Will he see to it now, once and for all, just now, to raise disability to 2,900,000 as a job requires, then up into a minimum wage of 335,000 in the next two, three months? Would he be willing to do this, at least? to show a color that these individuals are entitled to receive a decent salary or at least Shipping in his pensions? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It is true that we have been performing some operations. For the final question asked about certain specific measures, about increases, no decisions have been made. We still have funding for the current budget, which is to be determined in a way that will be taken care of and expected to be planned together with the changed social security system. But now it is quite clear that we are not saying this because it is not possible to say that it is a Covid case. That will be discussed in what way the budget will be set aside. Since then, we have been engaging in many operations. A senator named 20,000 bucks. a single payment that's going to run into micro-energy pensioners. A financial committee is now treating a budget-fixing bill that allows nearly half a billion to support vulnerable groups under the Department of Social Affairs and Microenergy pensions when there are truly one of them. We also have 600 million who are designed to support children's leisure activities in low - income homes. Some part of the disability pensioner is expected to be underneath it. These are quite high financial resources that will be able to slip into homes where children of disability pensioners live. Since then, the prime minister has said, and we have said that now in May it is expected to take steps to make housing. As for the situation in general with Covid, we still have a special team within the Department of Social Affairs, and although there are not many infections detected per day, there are still diseases that are involved in integrating all services for vulnerable groups. I may consider the situation a little bit better with micro-organization patients in response later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u19	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister is short of answers. The gang's down, food prices are rising, and he's not picking up. He gives no answer to what he will do for the poor, older citizens who are in the situation and out of work that is not available for food right now. Even relief agencies like Iceland's Family Help can't even distribute to them. V.E.G. Minister didn't answer anything. Clearly, he's not going to do anything for these people. Is it just supposed to tighten the belt? Are people not thinking about what to do for food? People who had food for the first week of the month for Covid do not own it now. They need to go directly to the relief agencies. It's a question of whether people should file for food outside the Department of Social Affairs and Child Services. Where are people going? What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u20	A respectable president. As I had come to an earlier answer, the Department of Social Affairs has a specific response team, including in cooperation with the Red Cross, 1717. That's where everyone can look. Everyone can call 1717, anyone can send a message, including those who do not have food, shelter, or whatever it is like. We have just introduced some procedures to make sure that everyone has a place to stay during the time of Covid. I forgot to mention it before. All of these are answered. They deal with the local community of the individual, and everyone is being guided by this. I think it's a hell of a role model. It's been going really well. A travel committee has been informed about the state of affairs each week at the time of exposure, only in the past few weeks, but I believe that this will be done at a meeting of a welfare committee in the morning. There, everyone can search and consult the language of all who look for it in cooperation with the local community service because it is the social service of the local community that has a legal responsibility to fulfill this service. It is challenging for the conditions that have existed, meeting requests, etc, but we have been working together, countries and localities, and stakeholders, to secure this service, and we have more money to support this, at this point in our discussion. half a billion, as mentioned. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u21	The prime minister of travel and consumers on package travel is designed to solve real problems. However, a minister's suggestion violates consumer rights needlessly. A minister proposes that the Constitution will be unnecessary. A minister's proposal is unnecessaryly violating the property rights. In their simplest form, the problem is that people paid money for a travel agency. The trips were canceled or canceled. Remuneration, which is protected by the rights of property, can be demanded. Travel agencies are not obliged to give people money back. Some travel agencies that can't do that will blow their minds off, and insurance companies will come in, for this is guaranteed, in order to pay back the people. A minister gives a bill that all travel agencies, including those that do not need them, get to keep all the people's money for a year, even though they break the property rights, laws, and constitution, and even though they need that money now because of Covid. However, 50% of tourism companies are more likely to be affected. All of this should be done without interest. Visitors are allowed to keep all the money without interest for 12 months. It's a violation of consumer property. I'm asking a minister: Did she find an organization in travel service while the problem was addressed? It took a month. I've heard they've been meeting with some tourism companies, but the Neighbours didn't get a meeting for a month. Why were consumers not contacted when the overall interest of consumers goes to full courts in the bill? The Ministry has a legal office ten days to answer my questions about all the problems the Ministry has had on this subject. Will a minister not guarantee that he will? Can this payment problem be solved without violating the property rights, the Constitution, and the consumer law? The answer is: Yes. Would a minister not consider either retracting his bill or providing practical solutions? [[The president calls.]] We've won the Committee bill, we've already spoken to the executives who have already said that it is possible. Will a minister give up this solution that violates the Constitution and the right of possession, or will it see the light?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. A lot of words were used in the questions, and I can't agree that I am aware in a free manner of breaking people's property rights and constitution. I want to set things right. A member of the Parliament who, when an enterprise is running short of insurance companies, is under law obliged to have insurance, i.e. binding money on an account where companies cannot get into, from which consumer requirements can be reimbursed. [[Up front.]] Did they consult with this party? Yes, I had a meeting with the representatives of a three travel agency once, and I also had a meeting with the Commission of the Group of Travel Services. I had quite a few employees in the Ministry working with this case, both the Ministry lawyer and consumer specialists. We were dealing with different people. We watched the developments that have occurred abroad. We had dealings with the Netothal Office and the Neythal Society. We spoke to a number of people in the process of this case. [[Up front.]] - I got the word, what? Senator, you'll have an answer when I'm done talking. [[Foreground on: Yes, yes.]] Thank you. Of course, I will answer the questions of the Ministry...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u23	The president asks why. The captain to allow the Minister to answer. This is not a conversation of the president and the Minister, but is the highest. Ministers to answer, and he will answer the entire assembly and the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u24	Of course, the Ministry and I will answer any questions as well as any. A committee is directed to the Ministry. Of course I will. It would be strange if I wasn't going to answer those questions. It's just very good to have all the work we've done to get things done. I'd also like to make clear that the bill is in Congress. A senator is a member of the Committee that handles the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u25	Right on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u26	I have presented the matter to a council member, and this is now a conquistador. [[The president calls.]] So I ask. A senator and the committee: How will she handle the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u27	President. Big words? Yeah, that's a lot of words. I'm working this case on the Committee and I requested that two management executives, administration specialists, be introduced to the committee. Both sides agreed that these requirements were to protect the rights of property and that it was being deprived, men were on a very high level of ice, and most likely a violation of a constitution, as the minister gives the bill. That's a big word, but that's a real word. Regarding the violation of consumer rights law, only in the bill is it recognized that that that's what you're supposed to do. And what's said in the bill on the rights of possession is just, by permission of a president: ▪ The value of the bill does not give any reason to specifically evaluate its compliance with its constitution. What? Does it not seem that a minister has grounds to determine specifically whether to deprive people of the legal remuneration requirement violates the governmental rights of people? V.E.G. A minister is a member of the Independence Party, with the right of ownership in the baseline category, after freedom, and some other value, named immediately No. 3. [[The president calls.]] Of course, this should be appreciated, and there is something a minister should do when he gives a bill. Of course, we on the committee will do this and make sure that no right of possession is broken. [[The president calls.]] It's amazing that a minister should submit a bill like this. [[The president calls.]] I'll call for the Ministry to give us this information within seven days.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u28	Mr. President. There is no disagreement that any questions raised by the Ministry will be answered within an hour. There is no need to think of something else, or raise your voice severely to say that it will not be done. Of course they will. Besides, it's fine. A senator reminds me of the values of the Independence Party. I've been on this case for a few weeks, and I'm not going to stand here and say that the bill is perfect. It is now during Congress treatment, and I and the Ministry are willing to provide all the answers and all the help we can give to the case in some way. We are simply faced with the fact that the basis for this directive is broken. We look at the face of a massive failure if nothing has to be done. This route was proposed, and it's a positive thing to bring back the views and defects of the bill and space to answer the questions raised because, indeed, we are suggesting that the law be changed, since consumer rights'rights are completely clear about reimbursement within 14 days. [[The president calls.]] I'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u29	A respectable president. In the case of Covid, there is much to consider, and as the epidemic continues, more consequences are seen for our community, which may not have been obvious at the beginning. One result is that domestic violence has increased considerably in Icelandic society, something that I hope to do. A top-of-the-art Board of Education is about something very soon. I've requested that on the Committee. Of course, it's a very important institution in Iceland, the police. So now you get to know and work here at the council, asking for more and more surveillance on the police that the police work is varied, that can be difficult and extremely demanding, and that can be a thankless job, as high as possible. A minister may know his own skin. This lack of appreciation now manifests, unfortunately, over the discussion is how authorities do not repay this work in the way it is required. There are repeated complaints from the police that they do not meet their needs in terms of pay and benefits. To make matters worse, police officers do not have rights to strike, they cannot strike. There is no need to trace all that history here, but in short, it makes the police stand in an intolerable position. This is a key class in our society, and no matter how much surveillance we have on it, we need to make sure that police officers experience appreciation. This is the way to render to citizens the service they have the right and the expected service. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: going to the highest. Minister to contribute to improving the quality of the policemen?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing this up. He came into a lot of trouble, and I'd like to mention it about domestic violence, which is just around the corner. A senator needs to be aware that in this situation, our latest figures are that there have been more than 10% increase in cases over the previous year compared to the same time last year. It involves almost all violence between mates or partners. There are a number of operations that we do at the highest. Secretary of society and child care is about to enter to respond to this situation. It is also true. A senator comes in, that police are in a different position in terms of a dress interview. Of course, like others, I watch the struggle faced by police officers today. It's very important to make a deal with police officers, they do very important jobs in society now, as they did at all times. Of course, I'm sorry for the police not reaching the contracts, and I really hope things are going to work out. This must be in harmony with other agreements made by the State. On the basis of the biographer contract, most government workers are being negotiated. The treaty is with the secretary of finance and the government contract board, and the situation is that the matter of choice has taken place. I've had a meeting scheduled for a long meeting tomorrow. I hope, of course, that would indicate that there is some success involved. We all want to make deals with the police, we respect their work highly diverse, especially in the present state, and all parties must be prepared to sit down to the table and reach a reasonable conclusion just as has recently taken place.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u31	A respectable president. When I read Facebook, it's the best. Minister or officer of the highest order. There are many things I like to hear, and I can agree with police, law enforcement, and the importance of being elected police officers. What I fear, however, is that once again this class is to be left behind, so she must immediately become extremely disagreeable after a year or very short of time because there is something I have felt that we simply had to get used to, that basic services in our society, law enforcement, health professionals and teachers are always in a fight, constantly being on the side of the authorities because these professions are not shown the art that these professions deserve and that we must want to have. I'm going to repeat the question, is the highest. Minister to put it to work, perhaps especially in dealing with the highest degree. Secretary of the budget, that these cases will be permanently solved by police preferentially, at least for a long time, rather than going back and forth in this fight? [[The president calls.]] It's not supposed to be like this. It's not normal to be this way when it comes to basic services.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u32	A respectable president. Yeah, I really care that deals get caught. I've discussed the matter with the highest. Secretary of finance, asking for information from every meeting, getting the latest information on the progress and key issues and asking for information on the pay development, the day work, the total wage, and the other aspects of police pay. I will keep track of it, and of course I have high hopes that tomorrow's meeting will have results. I know we're all agreed to make a good deal with the police. We want to do good. We've been negotiating with parties on the basis of the lifetime agreement, although, of course, the economic situation is quite different from that of the day. I'm keeping an eye on this fight. Policemen are a very important class that is now carrying out a very difficult task, and I wish them the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u33	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a board of committees on the bill to legalize the changing of various laws due to a pandemic crown virus, the management of the county and the courts. The Commission has discussed the matter and discussed with the Þorvaldur's Hyarddfjaf Bjarni Ragnarsson and Kvaran from the Heiðar of Justice, Sigríður J., Friðjónsdóttir Berglind and Geir Gestsson of the National Institutes, Ólöf Finnsdóttir of the Court of Justice, Ásdís Ásdísísm Ásdi Ásdi Ásbjörður Ásbjörður Þórsdóttir of Iceland, Þorsteinn Gunnarsson of the National Institutes, Vigdís of Iceland's Environment, Vigækæðólíkórskóðóðóðóða Eva Líndal, Björgnar, Breki Karlsson of Iceland, and Brynjar of Iceland. The committee received reviews from the Allied Union of Iceland, Arion Bank hf., International Economic Associations, Peritoneal Protection, and the businessman in the capital area. The bill suggests that there are changes in the law that aims to allow governments to use, in increasing numbers, electronic solutions to their handling, and in the use of telephone and telecommunications in contact with the public, as well as to ensure that there will be no damage to the case if governments and courts are unable to perform legal tasks due to the temporary impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. With 1 st. The bill is suggested to provide information on the death certificate electronicly provided from a health facility to the county, the National Institutes of Iceland, and the surgeon general's. In the treatment of this case, there was a view that it was unclear how to conduct electronic media for relevant institutions, the databases to be used, and the treatment of foreign death certificates. It would be important to set clear rules for such projects. It was also noted that changes in content were not needed for a short time, since a death certificate has been accepted naturally, taking into account the rules on limitations at meetings. The majority of them will depend on the need for clear implementation rules and on the security requirements set out in these areas. In addition, the greater part emphasizes the importance of implementation in accordance with the Personal Protection and the implementation of Personal Information, No. 90/2018. The more part indicates that according to the bill, Regulation 1 is suggested. it will be a permanent provision. In this context, the greater part shows that in the caseal review of the Ministry of Justice to the Committee, it is found to work on the link between administration systems, including The county operating system, to other web services, has already begun. In this case, the new procedure based on electronic events will be detailed in the Regulation and will be prioritised, according to Article 10. law on death proof of death, autopsy, etc., No. 61/1998, because the connection between systems is only established and the data can be safely transmitted. In view of the above, in consultation with the Ministry of Health, Justice, and Peritoneal Protection, the majority of the cases contributes to a change in Article 1. the bill that informs you that you will be allowed to provide information on the subject of an electronic death certificate in accordance with a procedure which should further be stated in the Regulation. General requirements for processing, type of data and information, to which institutions will be permitted to share the information and for what purpose, as well as the security and activities of processing. In the handling of the matter, the committee discussed matters on paragraphs 5 and 6. The bill. Similar changes in criminal treatment laws and civil treatment laws exist regarding temporary access to telecommunications and access to electronic media and other visible evidence to the courts. In discussing the matter, it was stated that neither the personal protection and the processing laws nor the processing of personal information in the implementation of law enforcement purposes apply when administering judicial authority. The use of telecommunications for the treatment of judicial cases depends on the implementation of a judicial authority or falling under its administration, and therefore there is reason for making any doubt in these matters. The majority of the rights to a provisional warrant are important and important, in view of circumstances, that courts will not be too difficult to apply it to their objective, since there is no doubt that this use is for a moral and legitimate purpose. This shows the larger portion at 4 mg. 116. g. review of criminal treatment and 4 mg. 51st par. the management of private matters is already allowed for a judge to decide that a report will be made by phone or by radio. There is no known problem with the implementation of these measures. Interim regulations 5th and 6th. The bill is the same but it means that in more cases a judge can use telecommunications. So the more part feels that there is no need to add references to the laws on identity protection and processing personality information and correct the processing of personality information into a law enforcement purpose and that no reason to assume that the source will be applied in a way that covers the above. The handling of the case also provided a view that the use of telecommunications in the courts is unclear in the way the individual should share and in what ways to ensure that a report will be given in private. The majority of the rights to have a warrant and if it is predicted that the above could not be ensured properly, the assumption must be made that grounds for application of the source are not available. That's about the implementation of police reports. The committee discussed some of the cases that it is permitted to report to the defendant and witness to the police at a telecommunication in view of the need to ensure that the court of the defendants will be uninhabited, as well as that certain journals were identified as reports of the defendant and witnesses of the major evidence, and it might be inappropriate for this to be taken in this way. The majority of the data shows that this is a code that will be applied only in certain cases. In this way the warrant will be used in minor offenses, not in cases of serious offenses, such as sexual offenses, child abuses, and serious offenses. The majority claim that in spite of the above sources, the police will still have to guarantee the legal rights of the defendant, such as that the defence may be present for a police checkup at the police station. The majority of these points to the possibility that other parties may be present for any report as needed, such as interpreters and staff staff of child protection. In charge of the hearings at the county, terms 10th, 11 and 12. The bill. In the handling of the matter, the committee discussed a significant score of 1 mg. 10th par. and 1st. Section 12. the bill in which it is proposed temporarily that a candidate's case be handled by phone or telecommunications, on the basis of a procedure, No. 90/1989, on the other hand, on the basis of forced sales laws. The principle was somewhat critical, and some of the views presented to support the criticism, including the following: for Diabetes mellitus status. The regulations are intended to ensure that both governments and courts can carry out their legal assignments. However, the Commission received the information that since the bill was composed, the situation of the county reformers was changed. Thus, the office has responded to the advertisement of the health minister on limitations at meetings and has been arranged to observe distance restrictions to allow for the continuation of the reporting of the event. Thus, the greater part estimates that the above source is no longer needed in view of the fact that circumstances do not affect the handling of these matters. The majority do not consider that there is any reason to believe that there would be another value in the courts in this series of lawsuits. Thus, the majority suggest a 1st mg. 10th par. and 1st. Section 12. The bill will be removed. Then it was 1st. 1 1. The bill also suggested that case be handled on the basis of local regulations, regulations, etc., No. 31/190, on the phone or on the telecommunications, and for the same reasons as mentioned above, this paragraph will be removed. Further, in handling the matter, it was suggested that a quest be made to the full by means of bond bonds, bonds, and additions, where the signature of debts and Witnesses is obtained by valid electronic signatures. In view of the greater part, this change is not needed in view of the fact that their messages will not be fully tested until October 1. In order to prevent criminal damage due to the barriers not based on events relating to the case itself, it is suggested in Article 3. Section 12. The bill to complete certain deadlines for such obstacles and cannot be continued because of the extended deadlines of 60 days until the obstacle is removed. In the treatment of the matter, it was criticized that all of them were in the interest of a candidate and that the interests of those tasks were not cared for. There was a view that treatment procedures and forced sales should further be stopped for a certain period of time. The majority of the items per capita have to do with the Commission's deadlines. However, it is clear that some county office has taken other measures to ensure that their present issues will not be correct. Thus, the first hearing of the event has been postponed, the beginning of the auction has been postponed in the cases that remain within the delay, and the post office has been postponed on the basis of uncontrollable events. The majority of it is important that the county's office be able to carry out its legal function and that a more part of it be set up to ensure its execution. However, the decision on temporary discontinuation or forced sale is not relevant to the content of this bill, but the majority of the factors depend on the importance of this discussion. In the treatment of the situation, the requirements for technology and electronic communication were discussed in the context of personal protection. In order for the bill's regulations to be performed, the nature of the case has to be supported by a great deal of technical instruments. In this context, the greater part shows that a longer period of time has been called for an increased, partial, electronic administration, which has already begun and therefore, in most cases, the need for electronic solutions has been assessed and used. It is also the beginning of part - time work of implementing electronic procedures into the justice system. Therefore, it is important that at work you have minimal requirements for doing software, as well as sharing personal information between institutions, with built-in and default personal protection guided so that software that does not meet the highest security requirements, including On protocols and access controls. It is then important whether there is a general public or sensitive person information between strains. In view of the above, however, the majority of the items are considered to be necessary. First, it is important that governments and courts who are authorized to use electronic solutions via the bill should be in place of safety, use of the source carefully, and be careful that their use according to the requirements of the proper law will be carried out in order to form the provision and saving of personal information, as well as that its use does not limit the legal rights of individuals. Second, organizations are required to perform assessments on the effects of personal protection and to carry out electronic monitoring in the sense of personal protection and the processing of personal information only if it is published for a significant purpose and to meet their criteria for law. The majority of the rights to the end that all the regulations of the bill are a provision for which institutions are assigned to determine if the rules can be applied. A greater estimate is that the regulations of the bill are designed to ensure that governments and courts can handle legal roles and at the same time allow them to simplify public communication with governments without a limit to the right of personal protection. A greater portion adds the above changes to minor word changes for correction and correction. According to this, the greater part suggests that the bill will be approved by the adjustment made in a special Senate document. Under these words, Páll Magnússon, Birgir Ármannsson's son, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir Gunnsdótttir, Guðmundur Hóri Þóra Árnadóttir, Steinunn Tóri Aarnadótir, Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir, and Pétursson Ingi.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u34	Mr. President. I recommend to the members of the committee with a change from memory of the General and Education Committee, on behalf of Anna Colb Kolbrún Year's Árnadóttir in her absence, for a bill to legalize the adjustment of various laws due to a pandemic crown virus, on the treatment of county and the courts. In fact, the bill will be called to propose a greater proportion of the General and Education Committee, if it is approved, a bill for a legal adjustment of various laws to allow continuation and electronic management of county and courts. But that may be less important. The bill suggests changes in various laws aimed at allowing governments to use, in increasing numbers, electronic solutions to their handling, and in the use of telephone and telecommunications in their contacts. The bill's report shows that the purpose of this is to ensure that there will be no justice damage if governments and courts are unable to perform legal tasks due to the temporary impact of the pandemic Covid-19. The smaller part I'm referring to here can honestly not say that it is absolutely necessary to make all the changes proposed by the bill for this pandemic. The minority points out that the bill includes suggest changes in important individuals' interests that are not needed, both in the event that changing rules take place on limitations at the meetings from May 4. and since the interests of parties are not sufficiently secure in the articles of the bill. The minority is in favor of increased electronic administrations that can save both time, effort, and capital, especially for those who come to the administration. The smaller section, however, considers it extremely urgent to work on the induction of electronic solutions to ensure that the views of personal protection are fully tested and carefully performed so that criminal research security is always ensured and the interests of public service to a businessman are fully cared for. Already, there is an increase in the use of electronic solutions in governments, including with the development of this trend and ensures that there are enough funding, adequate technologies, adequate information available to institutions and there is a rule on the implementation of electronic solutions. The smaller portion counts that 1st, 2, 3, 4, and 9. The bill includes changes that can be improved for the person and can be performed without great effort and support for these changes. The minority, however, feels that other changes need more attention, and it shows that some of the articles on the bill clearly indicate that short time has given to the processing of the bill and to consult with those who work with the governments that the bill takes into consideration. The less important part is the importance of the careful implementation of an electronic administration with a view to personal protection, not a race for epidemics and social conditions, and all gathered in one bill, both good and bad solutions and suggestions that lie somewhere in the ministry up in Shadow Strait, and all packed up in Congress and said that this is all because of the epidemic and all of this is the best. It's all electronic. This is now, this is what's to come. It can't be like that. We senators must have time to distinguish and debate this. The bill is not supposed to be under the pretext that now it needs to be done as clearly indicated in the bill. This is a textbook example of such practices. It's all piled up in here and it's all about the best stuff. As we see, there are some things that contain excellent regulations. Mr. President. In the 5th and 6th. the bill is proposed to change the criminal treatment laws as well as the private treatment laws, which include authorization for temporary use of telecommunications, including to report the defendants and witnesses. Despite a warrant, the lesser part violates these changes, in which there is a significant change in police and court work in reporting of the witnesses and the defendants. There is a danger that, both in the police and in the courts, using telecommunications may be due to a number of problems, causing them to delay, to be checked home, or simply to perish at later levels. This is a documentary, and it should be assumed that police and judges will decide when to use this equipment, but I believe that in this case there will be a much better legal management, better consultations, and careful attention to each step, not jumping into such important changes in the cause of the epidemic. Although this is a warrant and a short life span, the risk of going too far and getting it back to the head is too high, i.e. is the legal case that is being done or that is judged in later stages destroyed, or prescribed, or caused by delay. I just don't think there's any danger in this epidemic. Not at risk, Mr. President. The defendants and victims of criminal affairs enjoy vital rights that must be firmly maintained. The smaller part is that although the warrants are not clearly defined in what form of electronic solutions may be used, a clear limitation must be provided to the basis of such sources or such sources. I don't see when this might apply either. But I'm not going to rule out that in some case this could be true. It could be successful to have a witness, some minor witness, interrogated by the police and possibly in court through such equipment. But who will appreciate it? Yes, Your Honor. Who will consider the actions of judges afterwards? Higher court. Who appreciates police work? Court seats. This process can break everywhere. Why should we stop this right now? Is this a problem? Usually, the detective, the witness, or the defendant are alone in a room, just as we are in this room. It's not more close than it is, it's not more of an autopsy than it is of people. There's no need, Mr. President. No need, just a risk. How will people make sure that the defendant, the defendant, or the witness receive adequate counsel through the phone? How would you describe the person's reaction through the phone or the picture, that he understood what was going on, and what counsel is given? It's all too risky, Mr. President. Why are people going through this right now? This needs to be examined much more. Furthermore, the lesser part of the Constitution points to the right of individuals to the righteous treatment guaranteed by the 70th paragraph. The constitution. That right also leads to the principle of direct treatment, which, of course, is the principle of what I was talking about earlier. A smaller section thinks that, in some cases, the right person can be placed in front of a table, telecommunications are being carried out through telecommunications. The judge should see the defendant, see the witness, appreciate the response. He has to be in a position to be able to do so, otherwise it could be considered a violation of the rule of non-international lawsuits. He needs to evaluate testimony. How can he do that through some kind of video system, where you may see just some of the defendants? What's the defense's position? Is the defender supposed to be with him, or is this to be at his house in the bedroom or in the prison? Where is this going to be? Don't care where it's going to be? Can other witnesses be close without being seen by a judge? They could be in the next chair next to you without the picture showing. How to make sure that it is not, that it can be influenced by it? There's a lot of questions like this that are going to be answered, and they're not sure about it. We're running all too fast with no motive. When discussing the matter, Persian Protection pointed out that neither personal protection nor the processing of personal information nor the law on the processing of personal information in the legal purpose of legal matters when administering judicial authority. The use of telecommunications for the treatment of judicial cases depends on the implementation of a judicial authority or falling under its administration and must be taken with full doubt in these areas. The minority would like to agree with the above Persian protection views, which includes chapters 5 and 6. The bill is the right to the protection not sufficiently guaranteed. In view of all of this, the smaller portion of the material is placed in place to reach paragraphs 5 and 6. ... they'llrunoutfromthe bill. Mr. President. Seven. The bill is suggested to add a warrant to the exchange of the dying and the passing of the dead, that it be permitted to be handled by phone or telecommunications. Then, in paragraph 7, paragraph 2, paragraph 7. suggested that electronic management be permitted until October 1st, 2020. Eight. The bill is suggested to be temporarily allowed to build on IX. section of the European Commission on the provision of information and data relating to the surviving partner's application for permission to be placed in the private environment. The minority counts the changes above as unnecessary and is specifically referred to by the businessman in the capital area where it is generally not expected to take formal action during the transition to the population of the dead. It shows that the result of such cases is that there are potentially people who can handle all kinds of relationships, e.g. by phone, by letters or by meetings, by party and character of each case. Furthermore, the reason is that a person wants a conversation and shows up at a businessman's office with permission for personal exchange, financial records, and information or other information that he needs advice. Then he simply shows up if he has to. The minority counts, in view of the above, no reason to set aside temporary rules for dealing with them is provided in paragraph 7 and 8. The bill will be removed. Mr. President. In between 10 and 12. The bill is proposed to make some preliminary changes in the laws on how to accept and the laws of forced sales. The regulations have been highly critical, both in the case of the condition of the volunteers and because of the unnecessary nature of the regulations and apparently for the benefit of the candidates. It is strange, Mr. President, to present such legal adjustments in the present condition, increasing unemployment, where unemployment will exceed any figures we have previously seen in this country, and to plan at that time, ill prepared, to make funerals and forced sales easier for the financial institutions of the country. It's a good thing, Mr. President, that the committee, as shown in the history of the debate. Her chairman earlier, has decided to make a suggestion that part of this controversial decision should be removed and, of course, I support it. What are these requirements for us? Who's working there? That's what I said in 1st. The point that I would not support issues that would be evident in the present situation, which might be to facilitate or simplify measures aimed at the homes of the people. I wouldn't support that. The comments of Arion's bank on this bill also reveal the attitude of loan institutions. With President's permission, I'm going to read some lines there from: The bank rejoices that the Ministry will respond to the unprecedented conditions of society due to a pandemic crown by promoting and promoting increased electronic government. The bank supports the legislation of the bill's mind. They just clap. We better have stayed awake. What would have happened, Mr. President? This was to facilitate funerals and forced sales in the homes of the people of the land, absolutely unnecessary. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] There was no need. I can learn much more about who was needed. It's always a cause for rejoicing, Mr. President, if you can see and listen to a minister with experience. It may be said that the criticism that I and the members of the Central Party had at 1st. The matter later came to light in the response of various sources. This was simply considered unnecessary, as was the case. it says that the businessman's comments in the capital area describe the procedure accurately. It seems that those who produced the bill just didn't know how the conduct of this case is at all. There was no need, there was no hurry in the county offices. That wasn't a Covid thing. This is made clear in the reviews. I took the words I don't often use in 1st. that this was hand backwork. I can't help but repeat it to 2nd. The point is that it does. As it was said in my youth, people are doing it with their backwards kids. If you read the reviews and the original bill, it's kind of the quietest thing, Mr. President. We are not supposed to spend our time at a council in this condition, in which we need to respect all these boundaries and numbers in the hall, in dealing with these things, especially something that might touch the home of the people of the land and the problems of those who now face financial problems because they have lost their jobs or their income severely reduced. Mr. President, we're not supposed to be here to do that job. Keep on the watch. What does it take to make such changes to electronic administration? What does it take? Of course, technology needs to be there. She needs to be there. It needs to work. Of course, there is a need to consult, talk to the offices, institutions, and those who intend to work on these electronic solutions. They need to be talked to. All legal procedures need to be handled, a problem to her. It doesn't matter how they put it. We need to understand what we are going to do and what we are going to do. It needs funding. For the change to be carried out, capital needs to be followed. Personal protection issues need to be taken care of. The rights of tolerance and the defendants and witnesses need to be observed. - I'm out of time, I can't believe it. I'm barely halfway there. I'll probably have to come back up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u35	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, but it is true, in view of the judgmental talk presented here, that the members of the committee were exceptionally pleased with the changes in the bill, whether it was the case with the prosecutors, lawyers, police, or any other such parties. So the description is quoted by the use of a talk. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason is in much inconsistent with what was going on. A top-of-the-art Board of Education, so we can see that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u36	Mr. President. Thank you, not that question. It's a tip. Of course, I wasn't at a meeting of the Committee, and I can't testify about it, because I didn't. I witnessed to the client and read from at least One or even two references, perhaps reading out more. An unprecedented speech - I don't know. Was this a turning point? I didn't think so. I was just trying to find that this was a sitting-in-the-house, poorly prepared bill, with little consultation and absolutely no need for it. These were mostly. Were they without judgment? It'll just have to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u37	V.E.G. President. I just repeat, in my opinion, the speech was a little out of judgment because I think it applies to something other than what we're here for consideration. The fact is, the members of the committee, perhaps with two exceptions, were very pleased with the bill and felt that there was a great improvement. In terms of the businessman in the capital area, some views are addressed that were developed in the amendment of the majority of the committee. Regarding personal protection, I don't think there's anything to worry about. It is true, however, that many aspects of the bill are for temporary action, as well as the nature of the case in dealing with unprecedented temporary conditions are not time to engage in months or years of preparatory work regarding legal adjustments. However, they are aware of this on the Committee, so what needs to be reconsidered will be reconsidered. But I call attention to the fact that the vast majority of people who are going to follow the changes being made here do not consider the problems or the dangers of the bill to be gone. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason makes his way out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The year's Birgir Ármannsson for the comments. In this there was no question, I think, but he took the statement that it was as if I were talking about some other matter. That's not true. I've reasoned from the very beginning. I've reasoned briefly every paragraph I've ever discussed the bill we're discussing. So I'm not talking about anything else. I can assure you what. A senator says that I'm talking about this matter, that's all. I want to point 'em, too. A senator means that we support a number of articles of this bill. We are not against electronic solutions. We're just against the fact that there's an unscrupulous operation that lies somewhere in the ministry and that some loan agencies' dream is about to come into this situation. We're against it, and luckily, we've managed to eliminate the worst of the rules in this bill, I mean, 10 and 12. I'm very pleased with it, Mr. President, that the committee decided to clear these articles out of the bill. I don't think it's a shame that it's due, in part, to our members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u39	A respectable president. I'm moving a so-called verbal committee opinion here. I didn't return a written committee party, didn't exactly bring it to me. You see, I'm in the cursed position of largely agreeing with most of the things and the rest to agree with the Middle Ages. I can still suggest something of my own opinion before the United States of Congress, for I would hardly step into a torture suit at all. There are some things to say on this subject. The first thing you could say is that you could start over. The goal of the bill is fine, to increase electronic administration, and to enable people to interact with the government and government agencies through telecommunications. That's a positive goal that I support my whole mind in situations where it works. However, that is a goal that I think should be considered a goal from the beginning, not a response to an emergency, as this bill clearly indicates. In fact, that is why the bill is as questionable as shown in the discussion. Now I don't want to belittle it because it's written in a hurry and it's no secret, it's stated in the review section of the report that it's prepared in haste because of an emergency. You don't have to talk it down like that, but it doesn't change how the bill is. Even when you have good reason to hurry, the speed you take will have the same negative effect on the work as if you didn't have a reason to hurry. It is never good to rush too fast, even when you have good reason for it. It's always better to do things better, at least with regard to the quality of the products. You may agree to reduce the quality of getting the job done in time due to a medical emergency, but the effect on the product remains. The agreement with this bill was for this reason small and informal, as shown in the report. This is especially evident in the response of the businessman in the capital area in the source of the well - sent agency. If we were to think about it from the start and think about how this would be done, we would start with another part. We wouldn't start with writing a bill, agreeing with it, and then finding out how it would work. We would first ask these institutions what they need to achieve the goals they want from the lawgiver. The objective of the bill is to meet the needs of these institutions in an emergency situation while the objective that we politicians would hope to achieve is to enable citizens of this country, and, while others were looking for, to communicate, carry out their duties and reach their rights to the Icelandic government without having to appear incarcerated. I think that's a desirable goal. In the foundation, I find it a little strange that in these times, we citizens of the country need to go somewhere else to do this. As a technician, I don't see the reason, provided that we are well prepared for technical infrastructure and foundations that can be handled properly and taken into account for personal protection, equal to the parties in the matter and the like. Work would have to be done first. I wondered, " Is there any reason to put up a matter of setting up a team to distinguish this or something like that? ' I don't think it's time to put in a bill with solutions to the extent that I consider appropriate for legislation at the moment. To say that I support most of the bill, with exceptional exceptions, and the changes that will likely be made in the wake of the majority opinion of the Committee. I'll explain it when votes come. I also agree with my 1st share, i.e. Central, about the need for careful action. That's to be done and there's a risk of doing these things wrong, it's possible to fuck up a good cause, especially if people rush too far. It's very important because here we're talking about things like justice. The fact that witnesses are unique, e.g. Big deal. Now the majority of the council could come down here and say, and they would be right, that this is a warrant, and that this may not be new, given that this is not a problem under those circumstances. This, however, is an example of what needs to be considered in a much larger context, not just from private and criminal laws and the 13 regulations on the bill but generally from the civil relations with the authorities. I feel that there should be something like it that can be done from house to house in dealing with the state, not everything, not just a witness or something like that, but most of them. I always think it's kind of weird to have to go to some institution and put in some paper. It is not an independent argument that this year is 2020, but it is 2020, and we could have gone beyond it ever since. It's not just that it's being offered up today. It's been done for quite some time in the past. The reason Piratars are at council is that technology develops rapidly, the community slightly slower, and the government is slow. It is not a new story, in fact, to be expected otherwise, especially when it comes to democratic developments that involve much discussion and opinions in important government institutions and, of course, the high Council. I have to mention a few articles of the bill, 5th, 6, 10 and 12. First, I'm going over the 5th and 6th. I'm here to introduce to you some of the changes I've made along with the rest of my life. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagle Daughter, Central Party representative of the General and Education Committee. It aims to introduce suggestions that came from Perone Protection and touch chapters 5 and 6. The bill, which discusses the legal handling of criminal matters and the handling of private matters. Personal Protection pointed out that she wanted to put in an additional language that made it clear what law apply to the use of telecommunications in courts. The majority felt that it was unnecessary for reasons he had explained here. I don't agree with that. I like having it inside. If you look up the articles and chapters made by Peritoneal Protection, you will see that these are rather important points. I don't think that they're too important for courts to deal with, especially because personal protection today is supposed to be a little self-centered, under law and what we should expect of the institutions of the State. Courts should be able to comply with personal protection laws and should not be a problem. They should already have a procedure, they should have the knowledge needed, and the work force needed to fulfill the laws made by Peritoneal Protection. I'm just, with all due respect, against the fact that this would get a lot of trouble in the courts. If that were to do so, I believe it is an independent problem to be dealt with by enforcing these regulations. That's why I suggest it with a bang. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir The Year's Daughter. It will only have to be 10 and 12. who have been very busy. Right in the early stages of the 1st case. had come up with a review from the National Institutes of Habitats, such as they have hoped and referred to, they bring in the reports very early in my opinion, a very positive custom. It often comes quickly to points that are good to be seen right away, but not at some point later in the process. They point to, according to my opinion, between 10 and 12. These include the use of telecommunication devices that would cater to the interests of candidates in accession and forced halls in excess of the extravasation interests. Now that a section of the bill has been removed from the committee's list of parts that are good, I can't just mention what disappoints me about the discussion, the explanation for 1st. In 1 0... and 1st. of Article 12. ... isdivided. They're not that the state forgot to think about it. Although services and forced sales are a normal part of the system's work, not all forced sales and services are automatically legitimate. Tolerance has a right to contradict, he has one chance to challenge them, and this is to the location of those articles. When a new technology is used to make life easier for the developers, but not at the same time, there is a loss of equality in this matter. It's bad, and I don't think that's what anybody wants but the discussion from the highest. The minister and the other part have been more concerned with the fact that this is really unnecessary. I don't think they're dealing with this point. I feel that it is important to keep this in mind and accept it, although it has no other material influence on the bill, since the laws are better off. This also raises the question about the goal of the bill. My objective should be to simplify things for citizens in our dealings with the State. I think it's an independent goal, away from Covid-19 and everything else. The objective is to help these institutions work. By focusing on it, the authorities have forgotten, probably because of their haste, to see that this is not just about the institutions themselves, it is also about the rest of the institutions. Type-of-the-art requests and tolerance. It is a lesson to learn from, and I hope that men have learned a lesson from it. That's why I'm sorry to hear such misleading explanations from the highest level. Minister on why this has been changed. It may be unfair to call it misleading, but I don't think it's fair to call these criticisms less misunderstandings. She's not a misunderstanding. We're just so lucky that whether she's a misunderstanding or not, this request is realized on other grounds. This brings up a discussion about postponing all assembly and forced halls. It's been done elsewhere, e.g. correspondent in the United States The conversation in Iceland has been modest for some reason, which I find strange, given the economic discussion, forced sales, inflation and insurance insurance, and all of it is always loud, especially in times like this. There's something we should look at, but that's why I have to say, there's something going outside of this particular bill. This may not be the time to discuss it or to have some extreme suggestions on this matter because it is a matter that should exist on the basis of that idea on its own. I know that many members of the Parliament believe that this is the way to go, and no doubt there are more than one with such suggestions in the box or that they have just already submitted. A respectable president. I think it's over for me, at least For now. I'm here to explain our vote when a vote comes, we're on the green button in a little bit, yellow in another, as they say. This means that we support some of the laws and other laws, not necessarily because we are against them, but because the bill gives evidence that we can work better. Likewise are questions that are not necessarily answered. Actually, there's one point I have to go on. It's about the word change I took in the conversion of the more part, to the d-communication 3 of the proposal on the panel. One-two-three. It says that it is necessary to hear a hearing of a hearing of criminal hearing changing that all the members of the party will hear a council. This has to do with the principle of open Congress in the legal system, in criminal affairs and personal matters and to some extent in the division of the dead, at least when there are courts. It wasn't discussed on the committee, so I noticed. Actually, I wasn't there one meeting, so instead of me, there was a replacement. I couldn't find a discussion about this in the Committee. I haven't heard any discussion about it. I just noticed it yesterday. This is an example of something you would have wanted to be clear and may be clear when we arrive at the 3rd. I think it's time to answer the exact meaning of the party. Who are the members? If it's an open assembly, is it public, or is it just people involved? It'd be nice to be clear. I asked myself a lot more legal people, and they weren't very worried about this, but they could say that it was better to be clear, well defined, and make sure that there are no unnecessary questions that could interfere with matters or create needless consequences. To this I said, My Honorable President, and I come to the further subject of my votes and Pirata when it comes to votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u40	President. I participated in 1st. reviewing the case before it went to the committee and reviewing the hosts' comments on the matter and what they emphasized to be fixed in the treatment of the Committee. I had a word with the highest. Of course, a minister of justice who prepared both fortification and fortification should sit at the same level as all of that. I again contacted the International Hags Association and asked how they viewed the matter as it comes from the Committee to make sure that their views had been followed. In the praxis, they are followed, although other reasons have been given for their impact. The conclusion is that most of the household's Aggressive Organization is at peace with this landing. This is the organization that has since collapse fought what is most important for the interests of the households when they are joined by forced halls and their homes are stripped of property. Now, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has ended his case and considered his work on the committee, so I think we can be quite content with pleasure. Thank you. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for landing the case at a place most people seem to be able to enjoy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u41	Mr. President. I was going to finish measuring for my body's committee party and I'm going to do it here. It's not long, so you can stay calm. I had talked about the need not to bring the change, based on chapters 10 and 12. and as a result, I wanted to say that it was still a danger that created for the exercise of tolerance that was more serious. This was shown in 1st. and also stated in the review of the businessman of the capital area and the National Association of America's Translation of the Risk for Promotion and how they're going to be under it. By permission of the President: ▪ When the government's assistance is properly consulted, the principles of the matter should be established. These two articles suggest that a candidate can ensure his or her interests on the basis of a special service budget but that tolerance is not available. The evidence that failure to take action usually does not justify a loss of rights and an attempt to correct it. This process of discrimination may result in a validity and may result in the total number of complete actions considered non-sanctioned. This was from ASI's review, referring to Article 10 and 12. It would also be easier to worry about the status of the homes and the part of the country that now sees unemployment and offer suggestions for relief, rather than with loan agencies, to walk to the homes of the people of the country, as I noted in the 1st Environment. ... aboutthiscase. I'm going to read a little more about the ASI comments about the homes and what the government should do in these trajectorys and forced sales. I agree with it, as I did in the beginning. Um.....by permission of the President: Similarly, when thousands of employees have lost their jobs, tens of thousands have suffered significant losses because of lack of employment and partial benefits, an undisclosed group of non-paying people, as well as those who are going to be in an environment to protect their health because of underlying diseases, it is a special priority to the government to ensure that they can continue to be fully affected by specific laws that add discrimination. - And now I agree: -- more specific and more correct is the circumstances in which the government is simply freezing the most treatable shapes. If there had been a bill of complete repairs, floggings, and forced sales that would be frozen for a certain time during this situation, I would have supported it, while unemployment is so high, while people are affected by income and we are going through it. It would be a natural bill, but a bill is about to lighten the loan agencies'work by reaching out for people who were not needed. There was no charge in the county offices. Thus, following information from a businessman, it was no longer considered necessary for candidates to be present on the phone or at a telecommunications section to witness, as the members of the Central Party noted a number of times. The point, that this bill was not originally done well enough. So the smaller part agrees with the suggestion of the greater portion for 1 mg. 10th par. and 1st. Section 12. without delay, plus 1 mg. 1 1. At that time, the lesser part agrees with the information of the household's Habitat Association and believes that it needs to go further to take care of the rights of performances. The smaller portion points to 3 mg. Section 12. The bill. It is suggested to complete a certain course of forced sale and cannot be continued because of an insurmountable barrier not based on events involving the seminars will be extended from the date of completion of the obstacle. The minority feels that, instead of such measures as extensions of the above delay, forced sales and treatment procedures should be temporarily stopped. So the smaller portion suggests that between 10, 11, and 12. The bill will be removed. The smaller section supports the use of electronic solutions in order to simplify treatment within the administration and supports the progress of the articles of the bill which includes needed changes. We support the need for change but it is not true, Mr. President, that we members of this pandemic need to have all the lights flashing when bills come in and are said to be needed because of the epidemic, that we need to step up and prevent people getting infected in these institutions because they are so fast. It is not true that we especially need to be alert to the fact that such provisions are being brought in. That's not acceptable, Mr. President. With all the distance limits to one another, to the speaker and to the hall, we are here to see that the basics are not being thrown into the hands of badly won and unnecessary legal requirements. We shouldn't have to. The smaller section suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes made by the majority but also with the change of 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, and 12. ... goout. That's our suggestion. We support pars, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 9. which we believe is essential and safe to pass, since they can easily and simplify their work in various cases in the administration. We also point out that there would be much more to come in there, such as. electronic access to automobiles. Why isn't it inside? They've been calling for it, and they've been working at the Transport Room for months now. Why doesn't it come in here? You have to go to Begka to dissociate your cars, sign some documents, and all kinds of paperwork in progress. This can simply be done on the web. Why is this not done? There's no right in there. There is no risk. Why is this not done? We might have suggested a change in the proposal to add something like that, but we're not on that ◯ specialist-levevel both sides which have a view of everything that the board is dealing with, of course not. According to that, I hope that the opinion of my share and changes will be appreciated at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u42	A respectable president. It's probably true that I briefly explain the context of the adjustment proposal that I propose here along with the rest of my life. Senator. Hv. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir has her own opinion of committees I'm not on. I don't agree completely there, but I agree with some, and I'm going to sit next to a vote for a proposal to remove these articles. On the other hand, we lay down. A member of the council together for an adjustment, which aims to improve the situation, i.e. 5th and 6th. These are articles in question. A senator proposes that the removal of the members of his committee be done away with. That's the first requirement for that. A senator, but, as a precaution, we'll have no support. A senator is the proposal to make the adjustment. I just wanted to explain. The vote will then state that the motion that goes further will be taken first. Given that these suggestions will be used, there are suggestions that will not go so far but that will improve. I just wanted to make this context clear, because I suddenly realized that it was a problem. A senator is not in the hall, so it's a good thing that I share this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u43	Mr. President. I recommend a board of committees with a change to bill for a song on the Food Fund from a greater part of the employment committee. The committee has discussed the matter and discussed a number of guests and has received a presentation on the case by the Ministry. The bill suggests the establishment of a new fund, a Food Fund, which is designed to strengthen development and innovation in the production and production of food from agriculture and fishing roads. It is then assumed that AVS ◯ a marine research fund and the agricultural product fund will be reduced to the current form and added to the new fund. According to a bill for financial support by 2020, 500 million are expected to be donated. K. to the fund that will be distributed this year. The bill is a part of the government program for the stimulation of the economy following the contractions caused by the pandemic of the Korean virus, which causes the Covid-19 disease. If the bill is approved, the Food Fund will take over the products of the AVS and the Marine Research Fund. General support was given among the visitors that these projects were being funded and that would be important for the job life in the economic situation today due to the pandemic of the Korean virus. If so, it would be both for the advantage, for fishing, for agriculture, to link them together with one common fund, where there would be great opportunity in cooperation with the industry. In addition, the cost of operating together would be greatly reduced. According to one reference work in Iceland's Farm Association, the organization considered that there would be a positive result of the establishment of a new fund, the Food Fund, and laid down, among other things. emphasis on the use of the fund's management as soon as possible, enabling it to work quickly to shape the rules of distribution this year. A review of the Union's fishing industry showed that the adaptation of Icelandic seafood would be tested because of the pandemic of the Korean virus. The situation calls for new ideas, projects, and applications from a new fund. Thus, the bill would be timed in the light of the problem of the epidemic. It was noted that the establishment of the new fund takes time, including You would have to put them in control, set a course for the fund, etc. and I don't know if you could complete prework and make a total of 500 million. K. This year, as expected. In this context, the manufacturer's funds for agriculture and AVS should be considered to be operating and could be distributed to the specific amount of 500 million. K., this year in addition to the funds they already have in place. The greater part of the report shows that the body's establishment is in line with the General's conclusions on the Food Security Action Programme and the protection of livestock stocks in the 10th annual proposal. It is recommended that a fund be established with emphasis on the growth of innovation in domestic food production. The fund also saves substantial cost of business but the cost of each fund is now about 20 billion. K. every year. The savings provide scope for projects, but in view of the greater part, there is a great deal of effort to achieve as much of the money fund funded by the State is directly used in a work that is intended to be funded. The greater part emphasizes that money for the future is guaranteed sufficient funds to play a vital role, and the fund goes further into the process. As shown in 3 mg. 2.g. The bill shall put in command for the Food Fund as soon as possible after the implementation of the law, which should already begin working on policies for the fund and preparing for its operation. The Commission requested information from the Ministry on how it would be expected that it would take a long time to set up the fund and when additional funds could be provided. It was reported that the fund's foundation had been prepared for the past few months at the Ministry and that the prospective management of the fund could be based on this work and the viewpoints and emphasis upon its appointment. In view of this, the Ministry considers it realistic to believe that the fund can begin work for the summer and that it will be distributed in the fall. It is obvious that prospective candidates need time to prepare their applications and therefore it is important to make the most of their time until the funds start working, as the management of the funds has to be ensured. The greater part, then, emphasizes that all efforts will be made to establish the funds as soon as possible so that the added funds available for the new fund will be used as quick and best in the most important way in which the economy is going to need it. The majority also refer to existing work as modeling food policy for Iceland as well. is aimed at promoting further innovation in food production, but it is important that this policy be taken into account in the quality of the fund. The majority stress that in terms of collections the equality between different food production products as well as that there will also be a guarantee of the progress of the broad range of projects established by the AVS and the agricultural products fund over the country. According to 2 mg. 1st par. The bill omits the Food Fund for the administration of four men appointed by a minister for three years at the same time. One shall be appointed by the motion of the National Farmer Association of Iceland, one according to the motion of the European Commission in the seaside, and two without any appointments, one of them shall be president. The majority of the shares think it's right to decide how to proceed if the votes fall evenly, i.e. that, in that case, the president's vote is chosen and suggested a change of content. The more part indicates that such a rule applies, including on a vote for the management of the Development Fund, as is Article 3. 13th par. laws on official support for technology, innovation, and employment development. There were comments from visitors that it might be desirable to have more members in the management board of the fund. According to the 4th sentence, 2nd. 1st par. The bill is the management board of the fund. The Committee gave the view that with an approach most people can make sure that the wide range of knowledge available and that through the multi-annual cooperation of food companies has been used in the fund's work. There's a lot of fermentation in new food productions in Iceland and elsewhere in Europe. The majority agree on the importance of ensuring a broader source of care for the fund so that the funds will be successful. In view of this, the greater part suggests that the fund's management will be required to appoint up to seven professionals for four years. Presidency will be given to the management board to advise on professional matters and to give reviews on the disposition of funds as well as general advice to the management board on what she wishes. The majority of the items stress to include will be looked upon by the university community on the order of the professional council, as well as on experience and knowledge from the workplace and to the pioneers and the innovations of the sector. The majority also feel that the management of the fund will be permitted to give more professional advice than one. The point of the greater part is found in 1 mg. 13th par. track No. 75/2007. It was noted that the agricultural product fund and the AVS ◯ research fund in the fishing road are both saved outside the capital area, as well as as as agriculture and fishing outways as basic projects in the region. It would be empty if the fund unity would lead to a reduced number of jobs in the country. The majority agree with this and insistence that one of the priorities of a policy based strategy for 2018-2024 is to consider the benefits of establishing a new government operation outside the capital area. The majority point to a minister's point of view that it is important to keep in mind the above - mentioned decision regarding the location of the fund. The majority of them consider it necessary to ensure that agrienvironment schemes maintain the same taxable position that has been completed until 31 December 2020 and suggest that the provisional directives of this product are supplemented. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following modification: 1st We're on 1st. a. Instead of the words "land " and" ocean " at 1 mg. come: agricultural and marine products. b. Second mg. it says: "If a vote comes within the government and a vote falls equal to the vote of the chairman. c. After 2 mg. Enter a new paragraph, as follows: The Fund's management board makes proposals for the collection of funds that the management will appoint for four years at the same time. Up to seven individuals should be cheered up. Advisory advice on professional matters is given from the fund. At the same time, there is a professional counselor in the management of the fund for what is desired. d. 2nd matter 3 mg. ... goout. 2. There will be additional provision for temporary administration, as follows: Despite the regulations of 2,◯4. count 3. g. that the agricultural supply fund should maintain the same tax status as so far as its working time. Under the heading, the one that stands here, Lilja Rafney Magny Magnúsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdótir, Nælíl Friðbertsson, and Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörnóttir. The case, though short of the time and, as we have seen, received good publicity on the job committee, the number of visitors who put their emphasis on getting this fund to be active as soon as possible. I trust that will be the case. We're getting a lot of money into this new fund, 500 million. A k., which is crucial. One of the available funds, AVS, divided once a year and divided from its funds for the year and the other, the product fund of agriculture, has been divided into two parts a year, and the second distribution comes in the fall and it stands. Work has been done in the Ministry, as mentioned in the Committee, for a very long time in preparation for this project. I believe that once the law is accepted it will be possible to work rapidly and effectively and once the fund is properly put into operation, further policy development and implementation can be achieved in order to get this money into work in the article as soon as possible. This is very important, and we all stressed it on the committee at this job, although we may have different viewpoints on how we could get these funds to the best and speed up working for food production in the country, since there has rarely been a greater need to promote and strengthen food production in this country. In the present situation, we see the importance of each country's self - sufficient production and full - time work. We have a lot of resources to figure out that we can improve the production of vegetables and production in the agricultural sector and in the fishing industry. And then the fish fire comes in really strong. There are countless possibilities, and I think that now there is an even greater source of energy, ideas, and pioneers to earn food and to search in foreign markets as well as in this country. There is also a deposit of 100 million to market domestic food products abroad, so this is an effective injection in this situation to increase jobs, increase and strengthen the economy with more money, I don't talk about strengthening jobs around the country and promoting development in these sectors and growing. I think it will strengthen the country to get the Food Fund so that there are many and a lot of ideas that need support to get into the first stages of actual production and the full development of foods in different foods. I do this, and I trust that the matter will be well paid over at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u44	President. I think this bill is going to be successful. I think we're going to have a fight in the country. The wording has been changed here, as it says in the production and implementation of agricultural and marine foods, rather than in terms of agricultural and marine transport. This is one of the several changes in the majority of the committees that I consider to be successful. There are others who are now able to reach the table, but there are not enough ministers to determine whether or not the proposals of this administration will go on. Now it is to be taken out, and the Preliminaries of seven parties, a broad event in the article, suggest, or reference to the government, which will then determine the distribution. It is presented in a professional costume that allows for my political appetite. That's good. There's one thing I'm worried about, even though exactly this will meet some of their concerns. When this is inserted into one fund, we have the fishing ground and the agriculture together. Farming is often somehow less minor, and more is being thought about, or it has been felt. I'd like to ask if the Chairman of the Committee is concerned about that. And within the agricultural industry, I'm always told, somehow at the bottom, it doesn't get any extra roads around the system. I'd like to ask about that point as well as about how fast the money will get to work, but I'm asking about it in the next answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for optimism and good words about the matter. He, along with other members of the committee, has helped to make the matter even better. I think that all of us on the Committee would agree that there is a good further way to strengthen the subject, that it is not just a warrant, but a duty to appoint a profession and to receive a greater view of the matter. As mentioned in the preceding article, we place great emphasis on a wide range of projects. We know that these funds from the fishing road and the agricultural, the AVS, and the produce fund have been strengthening different projects, and they need to be maintained, as well as different tasks. There's been a few things in the Agricultural Fund, which may not be entirely traditional. This new fund is supposed to cover that. Visitors showed that there have been many projects and developments in their sectors, even fences and items related to agriculture and agriculture. I think it's clear that this fund is holding on to different manufacturing sites. Farming has been making a lot of money, and I think it's flying into the future, not just being a prototype, but a full - time process. The gardening industry has great opportunities. As noted in the case of the president of the local community, the community is the whole sector of agriculture, and the product of vegetables has a strong status, and it is really seen in these times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u46	The concern that I might have especially on this matter was to come out right now, and it's to be won, as rust from other matters that are beyond my reach, were whether this was a Covid case. As a result, I specifically ask whether any money that is supposed to come to that country is going to give me a rapid and clear answer to the people in the country who need it now. I thought the Manufacturer Fund and the AVS have given me a pretty good answer. AVS has been assigned, they do so once a year. The product fund is to be assigned once, in October. So I'd like to ask you why. Chairman if I understood correctly that the fund would divide them, or that all the projects go to the Food Fund? I heard why. A manager says that the Manufacturer Fund would still be assigned to the fall. It doesn't seem to fit within this, but it would be nice if so, because they're more likely to get it out quickly. However, it was mentioned in the Committee, the Ministry said that if this new law was accepted and the Food Fund set up, a government is established, but a large amount of equipment has already been negotiated. This issue was submitted before and has been developed for a year or longer, so these processes exist to a large extent. So in the autumn, the distribution might turn in, perhaps at the same time if the Manufacturer's Fund was to start now and request an application. It takes time to gather the applications, then summer vacations, and the distribution may be with them in the fall, although they may be able to drive it a little faster. There's one thing that matters, that the bill doesn't make that money get on the road later. The fact that this money is in circulation is a Covid thing. If it's done through a new Food Fund, it may be a good thing if it's a Covid thing or with Covid emphasis. That needs to be clear. [[The president calls.]] The Ministry must put blanks in it and keep those promises. I hope the Chairman supports the fact that the Commission's understanding is that this money is going to work as quickly as possible. [[The president calls.]] If there's something to delay it, a strong justification will need to be made and made clear to us who are accepting it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u47	Mr. President. Yes, it was very clear from the Ministry that these money would immediately go to work, that applications could follow that this case would be approved here immediately, that, due to a large preparatory work in the Ministry for months on this matter - we know that the case came to the council last year, and that it is not new - could be called after applications as soon as possible in the autumn. Regarding the agricultural industry fund, it was suggested in their opinion that they would continue to accept applications at the present time. The sea is not laid for New Year's Eve, so I don't see that there should be any overlap, but the funds have the opportunity to do the applications that have entered and other parts, it should not be broken. He's just finishing his work this year, and he doesn't get it any different than I get it. In other words, the fund will be laid down at the next year. There was a law on that fund from 1966, it's an old fund and dignified, but there was no legal basis for the AVS, it didn't have to, it wasn't founded in such a way that it slips down other laws and just slides right into this new fund. We keep a close eye on the job committee how we do it and keep all of the material in that regard, for our minds are the same; to get this money as best into innovation and development as well as to increase food production in different food sectors as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u48	V.E.G. President. I recommend a committee party with a bill on bill for the Food Fund from the 1st small part of the job council. First, this is about changing the law on food. The bill suggests that the AVS ▪ research fund in the fishing industry and the agricultural product fund will be united in a new fund, the Food Fund. 500 billion are expected to be. K. to the fund that will be distributed this year, as per bill for financial support by 2020, 724 cases. 1253. At the Council of 150 C.E., the General Assembly adopted a law on changing various laws on food, No. 144/2019. In the case of the matter, 1st memory of things even Comments to the establishment of Food Fund, in view of the role of Manufacturers and AVS ▪ Research Funds that had been different so far, and it would not have been demonstrated that their unity would have benefited. Because of this and other factors, it was suggested that the bill be referred to the government (318th case, par. 683). The majority then proposed to eliminate regulations that measure the establishment of the Food Fund and evaporation of the Aggression Fund, as per the leading committee opinion of the 318 suit. 711. These changes were accepted. The provisions that were then removed are virtually consistent with the requirements now proposed to be legal, thus requiring a reduced portion of the views presented in the aforementioned category 1. However, the first section of memory feels that it is hardly proper to treat a matter that has already been presented in this legislature body and to be already being discussed by the Committee. Although the specific laws of the Law did not come into votes for the treatment of the matter, it does not matter. V.E.G. President. 1st smaller things celebrates the decision to provide additional funds for agricultural and marine projects. It is important that this budget be applied in a practical way to projects that can contribute to the growth of agricultural and marine economic life. The proposal for the establishment of a new fund for such projects cannot be realized. Implicit a smaller portion of the focus on the careful management of such structural changes and the lack of economy as a result of a pandemic crown virus does not give reason for making significant changes in the current water supply system of marine soil and agriculture. Such changes require careful preparation, especially as a result of the provision of the current fund system and the coordination of the projects that are now under way and those to be cared for in the future in a new environment on this vast scale. In terms of smaller parts 1, preparation is not sufficiently planned and there is insufficient evidence to support the establishment of a new source of material that has been included. It is to distribute money when the present arrangements have proved to be effective in these activities. In this context, it is not impossible to mention e.g. Iceland's food supply and the agricultural mall would be assigned to assign parts of the budget to the problem. In addition, the 1st lower part believes that it is predictable that the establishment of Food Fund will cause a delay in funding to become useful to important projects that can become part of the necessary job resistance because of the economic situation now being caused by the Covid-19 virus supply. It is obvious that institutions and early operations take time and that new control measures are needed to shape policies and define procedures. In addition, there is always the danger that outside the fund, the important tasks will fall, either those in the two funds or new areas that the government wants to emphasize. Counts 1 less, easy to see that in such cases the current arrangement would be faster and more efficient ends including can change course within the current fund. V.E.G. President. In view of the above, it cannot be seen that the establishment of the Food Fund is urgent in the light of circumstances. As a result of the 1st minorities there is no agreement that this case is directly related to the response to the Covid-19 epidemic and therefore should take priority in the activities of the General Assembly at this time. In view of all of this, the 1st small section contributes so that the bill will be referred to the government. Under this, the writer stands, Jónsson, and why. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson. I'd like to emphasize that in my 1st section, we are, of course, celebrating this money, the 500 million who are supposed to come in addition to what is in the funds, so that it doesn't interfere. But our concern is that this money can't get to work as quickly as possible with the body of this fund, even though something else may have been said. Chairman of the Committee. Therefore, we feel that the same organization of the funds would have been better at this time and this case cannot be called the Covid case. For this money to get into work, there will be the scene that exists, i.e. The product fund and the AVS fund, should be the most obvious option. To set up a new fund, perhaps starting the second part in the summer or in the fall, would be less important to us. That's what I've been saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u49	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the history of 2nd. He consulted reviews that have received attention from the committee of her professions. The bill is one of the ideas that are intended to take place as a government counterimbursement because of the collapse of a so - called cryo-feature on meat in the country. We know this freezing family business, that evil thing, I'd like to say, and how governments slept on guard in our important interest in agriculture. By giving in to the European Union's pressure and bringing in raw meat to the country, our good and clean agriculture are being put at great risk. The idea of developing a new Food Fund is to promote innovation and development in domestic food production, which in itself is positive. In addition, a new budget is being dropped to 500 million. K. ... whichisa considerablemoney. But like a dog. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson mentioned at my committee party, you wonder if it had not been more efficient and quicker to place this money in the two cohesion funds so that they could immediately go to assign them to important projects instead of setting up a new fund with the items that follow, there are delays that come from both distribution and such. You wonder, " Why wasn't it a way to put this money into both funds immediately, and then, like a dog, they could. ' paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson mentioned, get to work right away, so to speak. With the ideas in the bill, two funds are being combined, the product fund of agriculture, and the treasure of the sea road called the AVS, which represents the increased value of marine resources, and provides the strength for research and development projects to increase the value of a marine resource. So two somewhat different funds are being combined. You ask, "What's the benefit? " I don't think it was answered well enough during the bill and the members of the rest of the section. I'd like to say that it's been laying down the Agricultural Fund, the fine fund, which has been the innovation and progress fund for more than half a century. I just want to stop at the producer fund because there are a lot of unsatisfied questions, e.g. Why should the general contribution to land support and success be done in rural areas, especially in agriculture? Now this fund is to be laid down, and there really is no evidence to that effect. The agricultural industry has provided many sources of growth, some of which do not directly depend on food production, but are important in building wide and wide trust around the country. It is guided by its work that agriculture is a very broad concept and far more extensive than the food production indicates. It plays an important role in developing relationships, especially in the granting of new products for farmers. The agricultural industry also supports a number of practical research and development projects in forestry, for example, and agriculture and projects related to development. He provides counseling services for farmers and many educational assignments. It is very important that this project will not be out of the question in the government's ideas on the new Food Fund. You do not fully understand why these projects are being taken from this ancient treasure that has served its function very well. There's a lot to care for, and farmers have a lot of interest in this fund. The local community sent in a review of the bill and traced it. paritaprevir That is what Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir in his speech. While the community does not violate the bill, it strongly emphasizes that the agriculture will be ensured comparable to the provision of the new Food Fund in accordance with the contribution of products in the collection of his budget and the AVS funds. This share will be defined in a domestic agreement. We're taking on a small risk here because there's no guarantee that the good work the agricultural fund has done will lead to return to this new fund. I think that's the biggest concern of all. The community also stresses the growth of funds to the future, but it does not limit its growth in 2020. You're wondering if this 500 million is. K. an injection, which is certainly important in this sector, is such a yellow root for the ability to lay down this fund. But then we don't know how much money the fund has to play in 2021. This may look good at first, but it remains unclear. The local community stresses the continuing support of projects supported by the Manufacturer's Fund but not directly related to food production, including education and re-education. It has also been designed to strengthen the country's population for the future, as I mentioned in the opening article. It is one of the important roles of the Aggression Fund, of utmost importance, and must not be thought that this unity will be the law, for I cannot believe, Mr. President, that the government wants to be responsible, even though her interest in agriculture was not great. In Icelandic food production, it is likely to promote innovation, which becomes more and more important to us. We saw, for example. In 2008 the economic breakdown of domestic food production was precious to us, and we see this in the time of the viral epidemic. Hopefully, those who have been advocates learn all they can from these foods and may give up their endless demand of bringing in most of their food. What is lacking in the bill is that we are not involved in the approach of the issues we will face when considering the many opportunities that are open to us in the United States. The broad definition of agriculture that is being done by the producer fund, and I traced only the past, is necessary so that we can use these opportunities. Changing consumption practices and warming climates provide many new opportunities for food production in Iceland, especially in culture, and other opportunities cannot be overlooked. So it should not be forgotten that agriculture, if not most of the industry, can contribute much to carbon binding. In particular, it has an important knowledge that can be used within the agrienvironmentous and then by the knowledge of farmers. When discussing the establishment of a fund, as mentioned above, it must be guided by the fact that a large proportion of sponsors have to use the grass root directly. In this way, he serves best. That's why, when you're uniting two different funds, you're worried that this important thing will not be taken lightly enough. There is a measure of concern that there are two different articles that may begin to bite on capitals that will surely be limited to some extent after 2020, although the injection that is being received today is positive for these articles alone. The agricultural economy has emphasized the use of grass roots primarily and nearly half of the donated funds in recent years have led to the production of farming projects. These are professional projects for farmers or in addition to traditional agricultural production. The fund's strength has led to the initiative to produce valuable things and many new jobs in rural areas. These include the development of tourism and homework, small industry, and much more. Mr. President. My statement is that there has been widespread vision in the Agency's activities, that has characterized the fund's work when it comes to funding, and that the fund has not lost sight of the importance of the survival of its companies to the future. That's extremely important. Therefore, when you combine two different funds for fishing and agriculture, you wonder whether the danger is not that of losing sight of this, e.g. for the countryside will prosper for the future. There are other factors that have begun to take place, and they are less determined in this vital role that the Agriculture Fund has always taken over the 50 years of success. The rural areas need greater variety of employment. This is even more evident today when tourism is inexplicable. The agricultural product fund is strong and has been effective in building up operations. We have to keep that in mind. It must be guided when these ideas are discussed in the bill. Therefore I give my heart to things which appear in the minority opinion, as of any man. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson recommended, that you do not see that it is urgent to unite this fund here and now. This case needs to be prepared better. It is characterized by a measure of hurryfulness because we are dealing with economic problems because of the virus and they are putting extra funding in these articles. But I reiterate what I said earlier in my speech, Mr. President, that I think these funds would be more useful by putting them in this fund just as they are today and preparing this matter better and more convincingly also why it is going this way. I agree with that. paritaprevir He Sigurður son of Páll Jónsson that I don't see that this matter is so urgent right now. What is primarily urgent is that these funds now have more control over this uncertainty and economic situation in which unemployment is increasing rapidly and we need all innovations and other such things, and we need to strengthen our settlements. We have a deep - seated fund, a products fund, which is prepared to receive increased funds, and to get them out quickly and well into the countryside, and to farmers, and to those who have the right to apply for strength in the fund. The same can be said of the cohesion of the ocean's resources. I think that funding is made very fast by using the funds that are already there and having processes and governments that are used to provide the funds available to the funds it has. This action involves setting a level of complications in my opinion, creating a new fund that will have to be used for the benefit, choosing a new government, and all that comes with it. The Chairman of the Committee, what? paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, said that it was necessary for everything to go fast, and that's exactly right. But we have a way of making this work even faster, i.e. by using what we already have to get these important resources into these two important sectors, the agriculture and the waterway. Finally, Mr. President, I must say, there is a great responsibility to have the intention of uniting such an important fund right now. I don't think it's a bit too complicated, so it's necessary to prepare the situation better and see to it that there is more logical and specific questions to be answered right now. Is it possible to add money directly to these two funds? Then, from time to time, you can get your money to the settlements, to the farms, and to the fishing grounds, as I mentioned. This is a case that indicates that there is a ideologies being introduced at this point. The danger is always there when people are working fast - they need to work fast in the economic pressures we face and respond quickly to minimize the damage we face - that it affects the work that must be tried. Work must be careful when it comes to uniting such an important fund. That's why I support the opinion of the object I believe is made of reason and is well recommended, then. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson handled it well, and he explains matters very well. He makes it clear that the success is merely to refer the case to the government, while stressing that the funds are subject to these important articles. That's what this is about right now. What matters most is that these articles are getting additional funding to deal with the problem. We really need all the innovations. New births create new jobs. There is an enormous investment in the critical times in which we live today, and I really hope that this situation will have a successful conclusion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u50	A respectable president. I'm here to address a bill relating to the establishment of Food Fund. I believe this is the right time to end this important matter. It happened last year to the council, and then it got a total of 54 votes, almost all of which gave support. The plan is to make a new 500 million. K. in the innovation and development of food production in fishing roads and agriculture. It's stated in the bill, a respectable president: The growth of funds will be a special focus on innovation, sustainable development, valuables, and measures to promote the competitiveness of Icelandic food production. It will also be permitted to support product development and market application in foreign markets. I know that both the AVS and the Production Fund have also strengthened projects involved in the processing of materials in pharmaceutical, energy and health products, so it's a wide range of areas that are open to the fund. I think that by uniting these funds, the good traditions and, in fact, the good places of agriculture, with the production of mostly domestic products, will show that agriculture is considerably ahead of the fishing industry, with products produced in consumer packages. I think that it will be discovered that agriculture will not have to worry about the very strong route of the sea will take over this treasure. Other than that, I think that the experience and knowledge that have developed in agriculture, the experience and knowledge that are in agricultural production, will be with this fund and the cooperation that will be used there. There's a lot of healing in the countryside. Note, now, that the Elf is forming a home of knowledge where food production will continue. The project manager is being hired for this project. There are big things about to start production, fish farming, and gardening, so there's a lot to do. I have to say, as is the originally proposed Parliamentary arrangement, about the food security action programme, and those of us from this chair spoken for the production of agricultural products and food security in this country, that it was not a great debate ever since. We who spoke about it from this chair were almost booing down. If I recall correctly, it was in 2016 that only 16 members of the council would vote. In fact, it was a total memory of the council that was responsible for the farmers'contracts that were approved for providing food and food security for the country. Today, however, it took quite a fall to do so. The calamities that have struck us and, of course, the whole world has made food security very necessary today, the cry for food security for virtually all the people. As long as we've been talking about it, they'll be happy to join us in a great deal. Of course, living in a small island nation is an asset and fault. It is often much more expensive. But what have we gained in return? We've had health, we don't need to be afraid of bacterial resistance, things we're hearing in the news every day, all kinds of resistance to drugs that are unknown in Iceland. I say this because the Food Fund will take care of the environment we want to strengthen and support. A professional employment committee has repeatedly shown great willingness and interest in increasing their jobs in rural areas. Home trashing and production are things that many senators have spoken about and that they agree to become a reality and that they tend to do in the scattered settlements, as noted in a fine speech. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorrin earlier. That is where we agree completely. We have also agreed with the Central Party in simplifying regulations and systems, reducing funds. We may agree until the time comes to do so. But we'll protect the agriculture, we're totally set. Finally, I want to thank you for a fine discussion on the subject, both of the committee and of the council. It is important that everything that has been said here should be done. We are building a settlement with this matter. I agree with it as the head of the pro board, anyway. Magnúsdóttir This is, of course, a national case, and the location of this fund is national, and we will protect it. We will follow the abundant vegetation in the country's construction of the food industry in order to provide food security for the Icelandic nation, and we will choose Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u51	President. It seems to me that this bill is going to be successful. Like I said in answer to what. Some of Lilja things I've Rafney Magnúsdóttur about, and I also went over to the Committee. There they met some of the concerns, such as the need for a minister to accept proposals for distributions. What is good has been removed. There is much more professional advice available in which many more people are involved in making suggestions or comments about it to a government of four people in which to go. It's very good, it spreads power, and takes care of professional work, very dangerous. If I go over the bill myself, it's three articles. In 1st. 1st par. says, with permission of the president: The value of cooking is to strengthen the development and innovation of agricultural and marine productions. This is suggested in the Committee to convert to: the production and implementation of agricultural and marine food products, so the branches are taken out and the focus is on their products. Also, there's a very good change that's being done there, putting down two of the profits, the product fund of agriculture, and then AVS, which I don't know what they are, but it's a seabed of distribution on a similar basis. However, the supply fund will continue to assign what it will contribute to the year and then be laid down at the end of the year. Food fund eventually accepts his work, and instead of having a focus on production, this bill, a focus on evolution and innovation. Manufacturers just mean that you should maximise production and within what time frame to make it. Sometimes it is not good to maximise production immediately; sometimes it is very good to place money in evolution and innovation that will require money, but in the long run it will yield much more results. This is a very good development. Two. 1st par. says, with permission of the president: ▪ A treasure of junk has broken the rule of four men appointed by a minister for three years. One shall be appointed by the motion of the National Farmer Association of Iceland, one by the appointing of the European Commission, and two without appointments, and one of them shall be president. This means that a minister is appointing everyone, but he must appoint the members of the Bavors Association on the same side and the European Commission on the other hand. The minister gives the other two, and then he makes a motion on the point code in a change of motion at the bill. A minister can actually set up his own people there, but fortunately, it is set up how to operate, what goals are, and so on. Some of it is attached to the bill, then must be attached from the criteria of the bill. I don't usually like the way a minister always hires a chairman, but there are many fences that make it less dangerous. The European Commission's activities were natural with the losses and economy of the AVS Fund, and the community had tails and hails, apart from natural Ministers, in the Aviation Fund, so this is actually a continuation of it, but as I mentioned earlier, it has come up with another bandit, a professional body of seven people who evaluate applications and provide information on the control of these factors. There have been a much more rich holding, more professionals, a broader view in this process. It's part of the fences that make things very successful. Then there's an additional, adjustment proposal from the majority of the Committee to the bill, and it'll come in if it's approved, by permission of the President: If a vote comes within the government and a vote falls equal to the vote of the president. The bill shows that the management board is permitted to order advice for counseling, but more things change, so it is not just permitted but related. That's very good, for when people start doing these things, sharing money, they ignore what is in the law and temptation, so it's good to nail it down and make it clear. Another motion says, with the permission of a president: ▪ The fund's management offers suggestions on the disposition of the funds from the fund that the board appoints for four years at the same time. Up to seven individuals should be cheered up. Advisory advice on professional matters is given from the fund. At the same time, there is a professional counselor in the management of the fund for what is desired. This adjustment was made by the Committee, that professional advice on professional matters is given on the disposition of the fund. Well, professional matters must be guided by the distribution of the funds. It is, as I mentioned earlier, a very necessary fence in not creating moral problems and resolve in the treatment of these money, that they actually put in what we want, which is evolution and innovation in the production and processing of food from agriculture and sea soil. 3 mg. 1st par. The bill says: ▪ The general of the fund shapes a policy for the fund and serves as a minister for approval. The management board shall provide suggestions for the minister on the disposition of the fund. As I mentioned earlier, it is stated that the management of the fund should make proposals for ministers and that's very good, it may reduce the potential problem of temptation and the emotional decisions of a minister, bringing it into the professional realm of the members of the Council. Let's go to 3 mg. 1st par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error The fund's budget is made up of budgets, each time and other income, as it is to distribute it. Nothing about this. Four. 1st par. says, with permission of the president: The fund's management is under way. The third party is permitted to hide the business. The board will provide a annual bill and a regular summary of its work as minister. The decision of the government is determined by a minister. The financial cost of the fund is made up of the money it earns. This aspect of the approval of government is very regular in the laws on government. I think this is a bad rule. I think it should be on some basis to establish this in the legislation, because once you have the authority to decide a job fee, you have an indirect effect on the outcome. Why can't a judge's pay be lowered? When paying them, they must not be reduced, rightly, because you do not want the council to be involved in another power, the court, in this way and thus have an indirect effect on their decisions. We want this power to be separate, and it is fundamental to the separation of power that one person does not have power over the approval of others. For example, the constitution says that the salary of the president is not to be reduced during the elected period. That's why. So I'm not in favor of this law and I'm going to vote against it. Qualification should be legal. 5 mg. 1st par. says, with permission of the president: The budget set up the job rules for advertisements, management and application assessments, distribution procedures, sectoral services, etc. There's some temptation problem there, but it doesn't look like much to me. It just needs to be monitored, that this is done on professional grounds. The government must follow administrative laws, and if so, there are a number of professional views that must be taken into account. It's in the law, there's a need to monitor whether one is tempted to do something else. And if anyone is unhappy about this in the future, those members of the Parliament are to be made aware of the professional committee and to monitor the minister and its subsidiary, its legal field, and its objects, monitor the implementation of the laws as they were placed here. Two. says: "This law already comes into force. Then comes a law on the loss of agricultural income, that's actually just cutting off other laws, that's a transfusion law, and that and the AVS funds are breaking down into the Food Fund. In the 3rd. says that if these laws are accepted, other laws will be modified, this is also a tape worm for changing other laws, the aid laws, the tax-bound loan laws, and the product funds will be replaced by the Food Fund. Then there is one provision, saying that despite this bandorm, in which the others and those laws are being slightly altered, the Aviation Fund of Agriculture should remain the same tax status as so far as its working time. Like what? The head of the pro board, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, introduced his work hours this year. It's a good thing, so he can do the work he has on him. Its distribution is October. I received an answer from a chairman in the past that the distribution of this money should be possible to begin with the Food Fund this autumn, which, as mentioned in the panel discussion, would probably be similar to the time it would have been. They said by the producer fund and AVS that they had better practice, more experienced employees, and all that, and therefore could do it more quickly, but added that they did not expect to be called after applications because they would have to be accepted at some point. It would take the same time - people now know that the Food Fund is going to these presents this summer. This would probably just overlap, the process could be delayed, but I can't argue that it will be delayed. I've been given a court order from the Ministry and the Chairman before, but our understanding of this is so that this money will get to work at a very close point where it would have happened to the others. That means we'll monitor it. The Ministry has informed us that work has been going on for a long time; many of its processes are ready; the order of the administration; and other processes that need to be started. It is well prepared, and as a result, this can be done quickly and effectively. If not, it's not a Covid thing. The 500 million being added for food production, as well as the 400 million already present - this distribution is due to Covid. If this case is going to delay the distribution, it's become such an anti-Covid case and it's starting to damage. I believe that the Ministry is particularly careful that this money can get a good job to fulfill that lawgiver's will in this regard. I thank the Chairman of the Committee for repeating it. I am glad that I had been allowed to take part in this work and to help make it better. I thank the Committee for taking account of the vast majority of viewpoints, a lot of other viewpoints coming from members of the Committee that made it better, so I would say that this was a very successful partnership.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u52	Mr. President. Sometimes it is that our environment is changing, and when a difficult pandemic changes, we are moved to consider the situation and to change the focus. There's been a debate here at the General Assembly that plays a key role in everything involved is innovation and its connection, the procrastination and research. I'd like to remind you that for the first time in history there's a new creation policy, established by governments, and values, little has been criticized, if anything. Similarly, governments have increased their support of innovation prior to this epidemic's time, have added more, and have contributed more money in the major sectors of the country. Let me just name the main thing. They have been made available for the investments of pension funds in innovations, for addition to the New Creation Fund of students, a remuneration rate has been raised for innovations and wands, the funds have been added in Technical Funds, and for the establishment of a special fund called Cora to invest in so - called indicators. And they're supposed to combine two funds and add one to the kind of group that we call Food Fund. He'll have at least a year. 900 million. K., instead of 500, then 400 will be added and then, if the economic situation allows it to occur above the head, 900 million will remain at least for this fund. We're going to discuss it here because he is an important step and an attempt to respond to the call of time, as I explained earlier, following this changing economic leadership and in the future. There is, in fact, an excellent agreement at the General Assembly to promote domestic food production. I think all the groups here agreeed with the general policy of promoting domestic production. Of course, it is for personal consumption, for food safety, and in time for increased food exports. Of course, it's about green electricity that we have, good water and clean water, clean air, productive soil, and then the earth. And what kind of food are we talking about? What are we suggesting that the Food Fund, which is supposed to be the source of evolution, innovation, and connection, contribute to what? Of course, vegetables and fruits, which are agriculture. It is the growth that has been more and more successful, although it may be difficult for years. It is meat and milk and related products. It's farming fish, and there's a pretty big plan, e.g. Near the village crew, so I'll give you an example. Then it comes from the sea, from the sea, from plants, and from the sea. It is very important to consider all these things that I have mentioned because meat and milk are not necessary to produce but, to a small extent, because there is something else to replace, but it is often forgotten that geographic and natural conditions are different on earth, depending on where we are on the globe. Of course, they do not have to be explained to people. Some areas could be desert areas, such as those in parts of Africa, where people live almost exclusively on cattle and blood from cattle up to those in northern regions where we can grow only some. It is a complete illusion to think that humans will be self - treated with all creation in greenhouses. It's not that. Geological conditions are always important. Therefore, meat and milk consumption are essential in many parts of the world, and most likely in some respects to correct nutrition. For the fish from the sea and the plants and the algae, the main reason is simply the land - to - sea distribution. About two thirds of the earth is sea, but one third is land, and if we are going to keep our biodiversity on land, if we are to be able to pursue forestry and if we are going to keep our heads in many natural things, our land is limited to farming, so we have to turn to sea whatever may be muttered and rumbling. Inbound food production has a very valid climate factor. The more we take care of it in the right and sustainable way, the less pressures are in the earth's climate that we know where it is going. It is also an investment in the future cycle economy that we would like to see, and it is an environment in a wide sense, even though it would be only for the growth of recycling, which is the result of home - to - house production. So it's all working here. We must remember that innovation, which we view as key to this role, is a long process. It takes patience and a reserve for this to be possible, immune to money, a company that wants to be involved. Seas, such as Technical Development Fund, Krya, and this Food Fund and other funds, are all essential for the development of innovation in a sense because, after all, the commercial life itself has to come in very strong. It is often said that smaller projects need two or three years from the idea of products and large projects, additional exports, five to ten years in the developing process. So it is obvious that innovation is not something that will save us tomorrow from this epidemic. I'm going to remind you that the cost here and in neighboring countries on each project is pretty much the same. If you produce a certain fish industry in Norway or Iceland, then what goes on at work and money is just like it. This leads to our having specialisation. It's easy to mention six things in the speciality I'm going to allow myself to do. There is food production in a country that I have mentioned before, and there the geothermals can get in very strong. It's digital development and programming. We know it from Origo or CCP. That's all there is to fishing and fishing, i.e. Man, it's mechanical. Then, it is fully developed in materials that come out of the water, and Kercis, such as this, provides a fine example. The supplements and the medicines, Genes or any of these, medical products or supportive products such as Essar, and sleep tests are provided, such as in Nox Medical. These companies, known to be very familiar, can be mentioned to show where we are strong. It's in these areas that I've talked about. The food flows there are the future mice because if the game is well played, the next industry can call the energy - consuming industry, which can really grow and thrive in Iceland, become in the field of food, both from sea and from land. Then for a moment to the Food Fund at the end, Mr. President. Not only does he like innovationism but he also likes to settle down. This does not have to be explained, for we are talking about fishing and agriculture, and these are the important branches, the well - known. When I listen to what I have to say. paritaprevir The Birgir Þórarinsson explains the minority and the opposition of the Central Party, I have to state that I do not agree to base it on a list of what might happen. If it's like that and the other one's gay. There are spray visions, so you say it, about what could happen with 900 million funds. It might well be that this fund had to be reduced, it might well be some time in the future from some payment. It might well be that some of the projects have landed between a ship and a dock. All of this, however, can be overcome. This is achieved by the management of the fund by representatives of the local community and the marine community. That's a plan of seven people. It's college people, people with experience and knowledge of professional life and people with knowledge of projects and pioneers and innovations. This saves as we spend 20 million a year together as we know where to walk. It is in harmony with an existing food security strategy, and it is in good agreement even with a policy of protection of habitats that should be important in Iceland. You can think of some ready delays in distribution. It might also be possible to raise these levels in the future, which would offset any delay that might arise. It is also possible to make sure that the ratio between the work programme is manageable and just according to the procedure of the administrative process and the procedure. Then, of course, the procedures and rules and other things that this large fund is going to cover in the next year's experience. So I don't give much for this minority opinion, and I encourage the bill to be accepted this late day or tomorrow or whenever it will be with the change as it is. A work board has contributed in the majority of homes. Then I've finished my case, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u53	Mr. President. We'll discuss a 728 case, a waterfront and agricultural minister's law to set up a new Food Fund, thus uniting the product fund of agriculture and the AVS fund. In addition, it is suggested that an additional 500 million be put in place. K. to be distributed this year due to reactions to Covid, which, of course, is a great cause of joy. This is a long time, and it is important that this increase will be the future, and I agree with what is presented in the members of the section in this regard. As we have seen, a professional worker's committee discussed the matter and attended quite a number of visitors, and they were quite positive about the case, with a natural interest in the increase that has been set up here. Granted, it is easy to say that this is being passed through and that there is a small Covid connection here. But even so, I think it's a good thing, i.e. to promote and improve food production in Iceland, especially with regard to innovation in that area. Icelandic food production has its unique status and has the opportunity to build on that special situation. In particular, it is important to support the innovation in food production, so the Group of Common Nations will support the situation, but including Because the commission points to government policies that we don't know yet what to do, since the food policy that has not yet arrived is yet to come, I felt that it was right not to be included in the committee party of the greater part. Also, there was doubts that it would be successful to activate a new large treasure in such a short time. But it was noted that perhaps the current funds could be advertised immediately. This would not be appropriate, since you may need time to prepare your applications as well as the summer ahead, which would delay the distribution until the autumn anyway. Mr. President. There are tremendous opportunities for increased food production, and we members of the United States have been very powerful in promoting the importance of increasing innovation and increasing food production in Iceland. In particular do we have great opportunities for farming and producing fruit and vegetables in Iceland, as well as for producing industrial 15:S. What a joy it is to be in heaven! Health Minister has taken a specific step by opening up its culture in Iceland by changing its regulations. There's a lot of opportunity for the increased use of low - quality products and a great opportunity for improving the efficiency of energy production through aquifers, as I've repeatedly been here before. There are also great opportunities to produce both a larger quantity and a greater variety of foods than we do today. More important, we should look for ways to increase the amount of donations available for research and innovation in such production as the amount of electricity in our country. In addition, it is important to transform the system into a whole system so that it actually contributes to innovation and not to drain only certain kinds of vegetables. Thus, regardless of whether vegan farmers want to produce cabbages or tomatoes or some biotechnology protein, we need to reduce the cost of distribution. This is just a review of support to garden farmers within the hardware agreement, and I'm impressed. To be especially bold there and to go further in that direction. Mr. President. We are well aware of the tremendous advances in the seas in recent years, and we have many of the most advanced companies today, which are based precisely on the level of knowledge that has developed in the fishing industry in recent decades. Thus evolution and knowledge development have led to the creating of real export products, such as Marel and Skanggur 3X, in recent years. It has also resulted in the development that all fish are completely new and thrown away, red to form a new bandage and collagen production. A powerful diet fund would give us an opportunity to support even handsomely the developments that have taken place in recent years. The same applies to agriculture, although evolution may be the case. We're getting closer. I'm gonna let me claim that there is a lot of growth in Icelandic agriculture and we have an exciting example of innovation in production. I can mention examples from the east where bulges and bopples are produced -- I like to say this as often as they say it here -- in the Charles Places of Bermuda, barley and grain and other productions at Mother Earth in Vallanesi, the River Valley region, and the least of which is the exciting production of the Casabi root in Fellatown. Of course, a number of other cases are around the country, Arna's production of milk in Bolungarvík, the Lótta potatoes, and were long counted. There is, of course, an opportunity for increased technology as well as the experience from a fishing field could be so useful. Mr. President. We must also want to look for ways to support food production in Iceland in the light of climate, but with increased domestic production, we are reminded of the need for imported food. Clearly, in the coming decades the world's need for food will be multiplied as conditions for food production become increasingly difficult. So it's a big opportunity, and it's important for Iceland to contribute. Similarly, there is an opportunity for Icelandic food production to reduce its rise in carbon production and make it more important to draw closer to it. Mr. President. With increased support for innovation and production as well as to enable pioneers to develop their ideas to produce more diverse products and more valuable structures in this article, there are tremendous opportunities for food production in Iceland. With the increase so far, along with the establishment of this fund, I certainly hope we are taking a step in that direction. Hopefully, more big steps will follow, both with continued increases in the fund, as well as with projects on food policy that hopefully will ever be seen.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u54	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for the talks that have been delivered here today, and I'm especially happy to see that there's nothing left to say about building a powerful food product here. - The reason I have to get a little lower on the rosary is because there's one phone call I'm afraid I'll have to take it right now, but I want to ask the highest. President to put me on the rosary in this issue right after.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u55	Mr. President. I'll put in a few words about the Food Fund, the establishment of a new fund, and I'll kill in just a few things. First of all, I'm glad that there's an increase in funding for research and innovation and development in agriculture and fishing roads. I'm glad you're here. I think it's right to give in these times, to promote domestic production, to promote development and product development in these chemicals, but I also refer to the high standards on sea routes and agriculture in this regard. It's the sky and sea, Mr. President, if that's what I can say, between the seabed and agriculture in terms of all the resources and facilities for research, innovation and development in these two articles. While farmers, sheeplike sheep, especially farmers, and farmers, and others, were right to offer life, hardly in their business, there is a very different story about the well - being and success of the marine soil. New creation and development have been very powerful there in recent years, and for good reason to continue to do so, but especially careful that there will be some understanding of how much money goes into agricultural research, especially in the combined funds such as the Food Fund. I'm worried about that big difference. It's really going to have to go through the development of agriculture, research and innovation to try to build this article on the ledge I think it deserves from us. That's where I want to say food security. I think it's very important that we produce here in Iceland and create circumstances to produce as much of the food we use within the country from agriculture and fishing grounds. That's why I think it's very important to put more money in it and to celebrate it especially here at the beginning. I'm going to cover two more three things. First of this fund's establishment. I find it hard to understand, Mr. President, that there are new institutions being set up around this increased money when there are two funds that have the whole process, all planning and extramateure of what they're working on. They would be relieved, I think, and I heard what their representatives themselves said, and it would be easy for them to take this money and divide it out quickly and safely to these needs. So it is hard to understand that this is a new fund. I don't fully understand that now, when we're fighting unemployment and the consequences of the epidemic, the epidemic of transportation, and all that follows, a new agency will be attacked. Of course, it takes time to set it up, hire people, order men, and make an application procedure cover, etc. It's all there is, so it's not easy for me to figure out why it's being attacked right now. It's like it's some kind of project that's been waiting in one of the office drawers. There are many drawers and a number of projects, many of these bills and proposals waiting, and when opportunities like this, some kind of fluke of the economy or society, these documents often appear and come in here. This fund was on a different bill earlier in the winter, where it was thrown off the table, so to speak, and ended by being laid aside in December. But now he's back in April when we fight a viral epidemic. I'm having a bit of a hard time understanding this, Mr. President, and I heard that some other senators have spoken about this in a similar way, because this will slow down and slow down the application process. It takes a lot of time to start this fund because, as I said earlier, there are many jobs to start a job like this. Second, besides this, I wondered: " Is it any special thing, has there been any evidence, or is there any evidence that the present funds are being made, and that they are to lie down in fishing roads and agriculture on the other hand, have not been doing their job? Is that why? Do they not fulfill their role? I haven't heard it, but I'd love to get it up on the table if they were impossible, if there's impossible people inside the table, or if they're completely stupid. I haven't heard that. For then rather, why are they running, and setting up this treasure for food? Third, I'd like to point out the focus of the fund. This name, the Food Fund, could be a little inhibitory, i.e. to support studies and development, etc. and innovation in food production. There are a number of agricultural and fishing projects that may not be easy to link directly to food production. What will happen to them? When I examined the contributions from these funds, a project could be found that may not be so easy to connect directly with food production. Will such an assignment fall between a ship and a dock or what? The name of the fund is old-fashioned; Food Fund. It is a name that could have been thought of in 1980. Today, progressive men would talk about innovation, production, or economic growth or something like that. But it is chosen to bind it to food. I wondered, " Can this be a barrier in the future and prevent some project, research, or project from falling overboard because of this name? ' So I wonder, Mr. President, and allow myself to say it here. I'm not going to extend the discussion much, but as I first said, I'm surprised that this case is now taking place and wearing the uniform that this is a special campaign for the virus epidemic. I'm not buying it. I'll buy that there's more money available on these issues, but I don't buy that the rest of the business needs a farm and a fishing ticket. I'm also worried about the garden. I understand that there is another way in which the gardening industry will be supported in the present condition. Of course, I am very close to the fact that there is a short background on gardening, enabling them to produce more goods for domestic markets, making it more practical and less expensive for farmers to do gardening. After that, Mr. President, I'm gonna make it work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u56	The president would have liked to see what. A senator would have stretched his tail a little, the next senator will probably be on his way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u57	The vote will be made in a way that the president allows each vote to be held as long as the senators get on to one another in the Assembly Hall, but to keep distances. The president will also ring a bell at the edge of each vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u58	Mr. President. We vote on the proposal of the 1st smaller parts of the General and Education Committee where the figure is expected to be 1,◯4. par. and 9th par. The bill will remain as the other articles, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, and 12. G., fall out. We think, first of all, some of these articles are unnecessary, that there is no basis for these changes, and other sources of caution, that they lead to the level of uncertainty and danger, such as 5 and 6. So I suggest that this adjustment proposal be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u59	A respectable president. I'm putting in this change proposal, along with a bang. paritaprevir In fact, the Central Class's Árnadóttir Kolblöndóttir, although we do not agree on a committee's opinion on the matter. This adjustment involves adding chapters 5 and 6. the bill that came from Perone Protection. The majority felt that it was unnecessary, or even possible, to get in the way. A senator disagrees with that assessment, so here is a suggestion. I'd like to keep it at bay anyway. Her first suggestion, a senator, was to take this article away.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u60	A respectable president. We'll vote with these changes, but I'd like to help you with the idea that we're here to save some of your votes. The original plan was to have yellow against any of these. That's why I'd like to think that there's a word change, the word '-' all of them are turned into '-' all the members of the party, and that's why I'm here. I would have thought it better to have defined what was exactly meant by it, but those lawyers I've asked about they don't worry about it, but they've agreed that there was a better definition. I'll leave that in advance to vote with the rest of the section's changes proposals.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u61	Mr. President. I can't support the whole bill. I sat by when votes for the changes were truly improving. I remind you that the first time this bill came in here, it was for our vigilance, the senators who watched the bill, that there would be no catastrophe. That's 10,◯12. par. There was a disaster, a sense of justice with regard to the ability to carry out the task, and forced halls, but we were able to avoid it. There are other things in this bill that I don't like, such as. Counts 5 and 6. Which I think is unnecessary and ill. Other articles are also unnecessary according to references, e.g. from the county in the capital area. I vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u62	A respectable president. I had planned to vote with most regulations, but not with others, especially with chapters 5 and 6. Considering the lack of Persian protection tips, we are now saving our votes and taking all these provisions in one vote, but with support to a number of things in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u63	A respectable president. I'm glad that this bill is becoming the law today, for some positive changes, for some electronic changes. I thank the Committee for doing good work and good work on the bill. This is to accept some permanent changes to electronic therapy and eliminate existing barriers in the law, including proof of death and adoption in both children and foreigners. That is positive, and I hope that there is one of the many steps that will be taken here toward an even greater electronic administration that will bring relief to all lives, both governments and citizens. Then there are other temporary changes, but it can be seen that experience comes from a variety of telecommunications and electronic communication, hopefully leading the management board to move even more electronic forms. I thank the Committee for a good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u64	A respectable president. Of course, I support this case and always celebrate it and always when we do better in electronic administration. Although the occasion is not good at this point, in these disasters we still see that we are learning much and see opportunities in electronic administration. I hope we don't want to continue on that journey. But I'm amazed after having observed the discussion on this subject today that it has been in the chapters, and then I specifically refer to talks from members of the Central Party, somehow completely excerpt from the subject of the bill and the committee of the greater section. I'm on this one. This is important if people really want to simplify people's lives and support electronic administrations and simplify things that they also support things when they enter the council but not just because they have a gas rush in the public squares about the importance of reducing the system but then say no when it comes to votes about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u65	President. Pirats and I will vote against bringing the case to the government. The case has been well accomplished. There has been a tremendous improvement in the administration of a job - care committee that has the authority to distribute and the introduction to the case is more professional, as I discussed in a talk at the cover of 2. It has now been made clear that this money should be delivered rapidly and should be done at a rate very similar to what if they had remained in the funds they are in, the product fund of agricultural production, and the AVS. In view of the fact that the Production Fund will continue in October, we will follow that after the Ministry of Justice wants the legislature in terms of its rapid recovery as rapidly as though this change had not been in the economy. Pointing the case to the government will only delay this case and that this money will get to work where they need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u66	Mr. President. In this process of making changes, there is also a difference between the two of us. proposed to set up a professional staff with seven individuals aside for management of the Food Fund. The greater part of the employment board suggests that by order of this Council, you will be looking to the university community and a special level of professional expertise, the pioneers and the innovations of the industry. I think it's very important that such a professional advice exists, as in other funds, such as the Technical Development Fund, and if the management is to be maintained and trusted to review applications for grants that enter this important fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u67	President. The changes made to the greater part of the employment committee are very good, many of them, and I studied them in a talk at the 2nd. A possible measure of interest is taken from the minister. As the bill was presented, after making a decision, he had the authority to decide what to do. It is removed from the bill, and in its place it replaces much more people and viewpoints, with seven professionals, who will then offer suggestions for this four - man government. This is a distribution of power and professional practice, and all of the adjustments made have made very much better, and Pirats support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u68	Mr. President. In December, I was strongly following this issue, together with the agricultural product fund and the AVS fund, which is the acronym for the increase in water resources. It wasn't their will for the board to handle this, they didn't think it was time, etc. Now this case is returned under the hat of Covid. It's okay, it's not a Covid thing, but it's important. This is an opportunity for us to keep our food production on a stronger level, to strengthen agriculture, to create innovation in the marine soil, and to take other factors into consideration, such as environmental factors. I see a huge opportunity in starting a fund like this and going on new tracks as I draw forward to vote on this case is not a description of the support of the livestock contract as shown earlier today. Rather, this is a vivid point of view that we need to reevaluate our agricultural policy by strengthening farmers even further, but it will not be done by taking over the middle and making our system more difficult. [[The president calls.]] I consider this matter to be a first step in a firm discussion to the future for agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u69	Mr. President. There's a law on the creation of Food Funds, which we left greens have long emphasized and have been in preparation for a relatively long time at the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Ministry. I think this is an important step to develop domestic food production now needed as never before, that we as a nation can have as much domestic food production as shown under these circumstances. This fund replaces an old industry fund, the agricultural product fund, and a new fund facing the fishing road, AVS. We look at a wide range of food productions in all articles, vegetables and others, and in these times it is very good to be injected into this important matter, to promote food production in Iceland, and to promote national activities. I could use some.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u70	V.E.G. President. We're here to vote for the Food Fund, and I'm glad we're doing this. With more money and money, we are strengthening and promoting innovation and development of food production in both agriculture and fishing roads. Our deputy at what? Work committee, huh? paritaprevir Signý Kristjánsdóttir, writes on the opinion of more things and emphasizes the importance of professional advice and that as teamwork and cohesion develop equality between different food productions throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u71	President. I've got a very perplexing reason to want to vote against a few things, to be on the yellow button in some, but in the whole green, where it seems like the whole case is going to be very successful, but since the vote is this way, I don't like it, and I just vote with the case as a whole because I think it's going to work. In a talk at 2nd. I also realized the points I would have preferred to vote against or to sit by.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u72	A respectable president. Of course, I support this matter, I also support the first discussion of these funds, because I think it is so important when discussing the support of innovation that it is as simple as possible and that a great knowledge builds up in the supporting environment. So I think this united arrangement is a huge opportunity. I don't doubt that these two funds have so far strengthened a very good and needed project, but I think together there's an opportunity to do even better. Besides, I stress that there's our opportunities now. In the present environment, innovation, research, and development will get us out of this crisis. That's where we're supposed to look, and we're going to have an opportunity for Iceland, which is a great foodland. Hopefully, this is just one step toward advancing that trend further.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-93.u73	Mr. President. When we were members of the Smoke decrepit District, it was a proper agricultural standard. Nevertheless, there is a powerful agriculture in the Crown, which highlights the importance of fostering innovation. As I said before, I support this case, as I did in December. Then the government groups decided to stop merged with the fund, and we'd be talking straight out, that was, in fact. with pressure from stakeholders who did not consider the harmony to be timely. I hope that this will be the first step toward developing more innovation, increasing growth in agricultural and marine resources, and other food sources for the future so that we can really start building innovation, research, and development in this area. We can take the lead, we have all the materials, the raw materials, so we should be able to create an environment so that we can control the important sectors that fall under the food industry so that we can keep up - to - date. until next year. [[The president calls.]]
