ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-94.u1	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the laws on equipment, loyalty and safety at work in relation to the work hours of employees who provide personal assistance to the user. In general, these laws have sometimes been referred to as the Labour Protection Act, and I will make it simple in my case here. During the cooperation of state, rural society, and the overall association of disabled persons on the part of user - controlled personal assistance, there were also temporary forms of work protection. It stated that with an agreement between the labour market parties, it would be permitted to deviate from legal requirements in the rest period and the late working hours of employees who served individuals on the basis of the project. In 2018, the length of the provision of a provisional law on the services of disabled persons with long - term support was extended to December 31, 2019. This was done where the provision was necessary so that it could be negotiated for the variation from the work time rules that the law on services to disabled persons with long - term needs can be applied to the work of employees who provide personal assistance. A respectable president. It is important that disabled persons receive personal assistance in accordance with the laws that have been set up for such service. At the same time, it is important to evaluate the work conditions of the employees who are involved in such service, but increased rights cannot be minimized otherwise. In view of this, a committee has already been appointed and is aimed at suggesting changes in law or regulations as appropriate for the rights and working conditions of the employees involved in this issue. The committee surveys those who care for the staff and assumes that the results of this work are available in spring or summer. I suppose the committee will then offer suggestions on how these matters will be best addressed to the future, where both those who take advantage of the user - controlled personal assistance as well as those who give the ministry will be kept in mind. So the bill is suggested to ensure that the work hours of employees who provide personal assistance in a way that provides user - controlled assistance can be arranged as a law on the services of disabled persons with long - term needs to be expected without any interference from the protection laws being greater than the need for working hours for those who render the service. So the bill expects a longer period of time for temporary work protection from January 1, 2020 to the next year. It thus ensures that there is room for work time to be negotiated but the Labour Protection Act is expected to be due to the staff who assist the NAPA until these matters are resolved in the legislation to the future. In this regard, I expect the next fall will submit a bill to the General, where changes in legislation will be made permanently if the Commission concludes that such adjustment is necessary. In view of the above, I strongly emphasize that the bill will be approved for the better of qualified employees and the individuals who use their services until the Council is established as to how these matters will be best handled in the future. After this discussion, I suggest that the case be referred to. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-94.u2	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize health insurance law, No. 112/2008. The bill suggests changes to the Agency's control and control authority. The health insurance laws went into effect on October 1, 2008, and there have been some changes in the law since they went into effect, including the following: increasing equality between medical and health care providers when it comes to making payoffs for medical and medical insurance. One of the main roles of the health insurance agency is to handle a health - care contract and a health - care fee on the basis of Article 39. Law on Health Care, No. 112/2008. In the 2030 C.E., the Agency is expected to care for all agreements for the provision of health care for the State, whether it is public or private services. The legislation allows for clear permission to the Agency to monitor the activities of an enterprise. It is important to ensure by the legal authority of the Agency for the management of providers when reimbursement to health care will take place, as stated in Article 38. The law, in the absence of contracts and suggested on the bill. It is suggested that the health insurance agency be allowed to monitor the non-contracting providers, but the Agency has the legal authority to monitor the terms of the contractual organisations, but it is necessary that the same surveillance authority be legal in the case of non-contracted service employers, both in order to ensure patient safety and to protect patients from inactions with the Agency and insured health insurance. Healthcare professionals are also requested to call for the necessary portions of the medical registry to conduct the monitoring of the contracts and accounts for the Agency. The health insurance law states that health care professionals responsible for the possession of medical records, such as medical records, No. 55/2009, be obliged to provide the information and information necessary for the health care professionals of the health care facility as well as the data required by the Agency for its monitoring role. Act on health insurance. Then it is permitted to review the part of the medical records needed for the monitoring of the contracts and the accounting of the Agency. Instead of examining the location where a medical registry is being preserved, the bill suggests that the Agency can call for the necessary portions of the medical records. This is a change in behavior that enhances effectiveness and security. The health insurance agency has prepared a safe way for health care professionals to submit the necessary data when monitoring is not requested. The extension of data would be through a special web-page that provides strict access control where access is linked to a healthcare professional's social security index. The healthcare professional will therefore send the data safely to the health care facility. Only personnel of the Agency who have the authority to review the current data have access to them. This procedure ensures that laws on personal protection and processing of personal information, No. 90/2018, complete. i.e. that the data are only available to those who have the authority to work with them. A respectable president. Finally, a minister is suggested to have a chance to appoint the director of the Agency without access to the health insurance agency. Is the change presented in the light of the responsibility of a minister to the director's orders. Clearly, the management board is not responsible for the order of the director, and the management is not responsible for the management of the Agency as the director. It is therefore suggested that the current government be changed in its current law that the government should have access to an order of directors, that the government does not have that approach, i.e. that the board does not have the legal obligation to propose a proposal to the director's order. A respectable president. I have now explained the main subject of the bill being discussed and allow me to suggest at the end of the 1st. Refer to the welfare committee and 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-94.u3	Mr. President. This bill as the highest. A health minister here recommends various things that I like about myself and others that I don't like. It's like it's going and it's going to happen. I'd like to start by asking the highest. Minister only on priorities. The matter of the assembly hall at this time of the meeting stop and of the downcoming of the council has now been discussed. The conclusion has been that there are mainly Covid-related issues and then other administrations following events. I just want to pray to the highest. Ministers to take me through a matter that we both know well and are bound to the Council of Congress, which has been supported by well over one-third of the members of Congress, has been taken over by the council, and has spoken directly into the heart at the highest level. If it is determined by a health minister, how she has dealt with the right reaction to the disaster we face. In addition, the bill has the highest authority. Ministers to govern by Regulation how much money goes into it and what obstacles are put in place. I'd like to get an explanation for the best. So a minister has why that matter should not be held here in the hall under the circumstances that we now live in. The reviews received when the case was under discussion were a great deal of talk about personal protection on the basis of rules of access to the documents, the electronic portal, and so on. We have to go through this well, but it is clear that there are times when Persian protection would like to be treated in times past so that it would not always sit up almost in the stock, and not just on these matters, but on very many matters, especially those who will then be treated as members of a Senate committee. Did they get access to this case? [[The president calls.]] Was there a request for a Persian protection in the early processing of the case?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-94.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's questions. First, we have some problems in regard to priorities and differences from the Government Constitution, which were now significantly cut down in the light of circumstances and the limitations of the Congress work and the important projects involved in the epidemic. I thought it was a matter of increasing patient safety and the more clear records of the health insurance agency to keep the public interest in dealing with those who are engaged in contracts where treaties are not available. At any given time, over 200 contracts may be in force by the health insurance agency, which may suggest that 10% is in some kind of contract process. While negotiations are not in force, the Agency has less authority on calling for information. I counted in light of health policy, etc. That this was not a matter of opinion. It was my opinion that this was not a problem, but of course it is. A welfare committee through it as it should be. That's my first answer. Second, consider the case of psychiatry. I agree with a welfare committee. A senator's point is that it is an enormously important point to negotiate the services of psychologists and that it falls under the health insurance payment system. We've improved the services of psychologists considerably into the medical profession and then into the mental - health team. I find it very important if and when such a situation would be resolved that we would have any intention of making such a change over the future, not that we would make it different than that we would have any plans for it to be effective. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-94.u5	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister resists and prefers that many of the things being done to promote welfare and health care are intended for a longer future, good if it has not just been set that way at times. I specifically mention this case because it has now been opened to the fact that the so-called Covid case of the government's opposition situation is placed here first, but a small play is set up if it is intended only to be found in 1. ... but that ready issues that can truly help the government and the council to help people who have become in trouble, and will get in trouble, because of this unprecedented position, should be put aside. I'd like to go back to the subject we're discussing. Health care law speaks of an objective that the health insurance agency will care for all future agreements and will expect to be also with the state-running companies. This bill is intended solely to ensure the means of the health insurance institution to monitor private or non-contracted organisations. I'm interested in hearing a vision of the future. Ministers with regard to other institutions, the other state authorities, and then we come to another. We've only been on the SEC, and I agree with the highest level. Minister, this is going to be a conquistador and a guest will be called. I'm asking about this...... thatthepresident will be appointed by a minister without the presence of the board. In the original motions, it was simply assumed that the government was not there. It was protested, and then it's a journey between us. It is now time for a reduction of surveillance and the measures established by law that the director does not hear directly from a minister alone and is hired by him. I don't know how to figure it out. A minister sees that the board of directors can take care of their own surveillance role when this bypass is established between the director and the minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-94.u6	First, regarding the health insurance status of all the future providers, there is a possibility that the health insurance agency has a role, not just in health policy, but in the current health laws on the Agency. Although the law was ten years old, it was always the fact that the health insurance agency had the responsibility to care for health care not only from private citizens but also from public sources. My opinion is that it is very important that in a certain sense the same measures as those set out for this service, regardless of who the service owner is. That means a much larger project on the health insurance network than it is today, but it's my vision that it will, and it's according to health policy. Hv. A senator also asks about the arrival of the Persian Guardian in early stages. I know this discussion, and it's about getting into the billing of so many different categories that Personal Protection thinks it's the right thing to be guided earlier in the process. The bill is tempted to comply with all the observations made by Peritoneal Protection in the treatment of the problem to ensure that the personal protection issues were complete and that there were only a limited group or speculative employees who could handle these data, etc. We feel that they have a view that is sufficiently acceptable to them. In terms of the government, this is actually about that, in view of the secretary's responsibility to appoint the director and the director with direct responsibility for ministers, as with any other organisation, it is slightly avoided to e.g. interviews with candidates for directorship are at the board, which will then make a suggestion to a minister, but the minister will be faced with certain conclusions without having access to it. [[The president calls.]] Then there will be this relationship between Minister and Director, as well as anywhere else. I would have thought that the commitment would be clearer that way than the way it is suggested in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-94.u7	Mr. President. I am happy to be given the opportunity to measure for bill to legalize various laws involving property and the use of real estate. A joint thread in the bill is a change in various laws relating to property rights and property use. Reaching the bill will create a view of possession in Iceland, and governments will gain control tools to promote land use in accordance with land options and with community interests and future generations being guided by them. The background of this case is long and has land-related topics and property on land been discussed here at the General Assembly and in the community at the latest. Landmarks are limited in the same way as important natural resources; we can talk about fish stocks, earth heat, metals, and so on. Thus, a country cannot be classified as any other product that is buying and selling into a competitive market. If land and resources do not have any rules, the country can easily become a merchants who once again threatens the interests of society and nature. It is of interest to us at the General Assembly today that, after Iceland became the sovereign state, the first law adopted as a law on the use of land and possession of land. At the beginning of the last century, the 20th century, Winston Churchill referred to a monopoly of land as the mother of all monopolies. It would be eternal, resulting in undeserved gain, which would be directly harmful to the public, e.g. In the form of tolls and high rents. A country is not luxuryary; it is a prerequisite for human life. Therefore, it is unfortunate that in many basic areas, a certain abuse on the part of the government and on the part of the politics has been subject for a long time. To some extent, this position is attributed to international development. The political debate over land ownership was limited by this century. A country was viewed as an investment opportunity and opposition to such thinking as an old - fashioned thought and barrier to free trade. There are numerous examples of such speech, both international and regional. But if men want to look at the state of the country, the resources and nature of Iceland as old-fashioned, I'll be happy to blame myself for it. However, future generations will ask, and the basic premise is that land is a limited resource. There may also be some weakness on the basis of a series of departments and a lack of complete perspective. It's because of the way I'm running this case here, but it was for the treatment of the Ministry of Presidency, which, in the power of its coordination, brought up views from marine and agricultural ministers and the Ministry of Employment, the Ministry of Justice, the Department of Transport and the Ministry of Environment and Resource, and following the work of the bill. It involves changes in four law columns that contain laws on property and property use. It was written by the Ministry of Presidency in cooperation with the Ministry I listed as well as the National Office of Iceland. For consultation with the bill's contract, the East Eyvindur G. Gunnarsson, professor at the University of Iceland's Law, and Friðrik Friðriksson Hirst, director of the Law Institute of the University of Iceland, were found to be a source of advice. A discussion in a non-visible report, which I hope will be of little use to. Parliaments with this work, based on the extensive diagnostic work of those who led to, including, the U.S.A. there is insufficient information on owners, property of linked parties, prices, sizes and use and classification of the country. It was then considered a lack of holistic and developed land use policies and property in this context. This has been discussed in previous government reports, and I specifically refer to a report by the work group on the possession of farms published in August 2018 and a report on the review of law on property rights and rights, No. 19/1966, published in May 2014. I'll now take a closer look at the bill's proposals. First, the terms of this exception are conditional conditions for the property of the person living in countries outside the European Economic Area, but the existing legislation on this subject is general and uncertain. The principle is that an Icelandic citizen's right or home in this country is a requirement to gain possession of property. In accordance with the EEA Convention, the EEA cities enjoy comparable rights and embraces these legislation or this section of the bill only to non-EU Member States. People outside the EEA can apply for permission to the Minister of Justice to own property in Iceland. The proposed changes take into account the standard carried out by the Ministry of Justice since 2016 and thereby set certain conditions for notation. Among other things, the size of real estates is expected not to exceed 3.5 pickets, unless there is a need for a larger holding on a job than there are a maximum of 25 acres. Second, it is assumed that the purchase price should appear in a Synodized deed, but it has been used to ensure that the sale is delivered to the council without any information about the purchases of property. Prices include: The need for real estate evaluation and the importance to establish it in Parliamentary documents, apart from that, of course, increasing ground- and land-to-land transparency. Third, the National Publications Index is proposed to be the site for a state record of national information. National records have been developed in recent years but at this point some 25% of Iceland's area has been targeted and registered by the Agency. However, there is a shortage of national ownership protocols in the registration and valuation of real estate laws, No. 6/2001, which has been identified by the National Registry that this will inhibit further building of the registry. Fourth, the opinions of nature protection, social development and sustainable development are made higher in the soil-shaped target areas, set out in the terms of national exchange agreements in defined cases where a member of the particular size of land before it and will only take a closer look at it below. The more information related to a particular Member State's holding of property is then expected and finally a clearer conditions are set up for the de-enablement of legislation and agri-environmental solution. The draft that the bill contained a paraphrase of the Board of Directorates' puzzle in the season 13,◯27. February 1st. I received thirty-three reviews. Many came to celebrate a forward bill, but then it came to the view that the bill went too far or too far with the terms of consent, even if this was against the constitution and international commitments of Iceland. And before we go any further, I'd like to make no doubt that it is my opinion that the bill is fully in harmony with Iceland's Constitution, for it has no law that one individual may have as much land as he wants in Iceland. The sanctity of the possession rights underlined in the Iceland Constitution does not mean that everyone has the unlimited right to obtain certain possessions. Rather, it is primarily an emphasis on the rights of property without actually overstepping the rights of others. In this context, there has also been a requirement for basic prohibitions on land collection. It may well be noted that with all the rights involved, it is difficult to see why one individual, lawgiver, or associated person needs thousands of acres of land. In such cases, you also need to remember that possession can change. Even if consumption is in harmony with the interests of society and nature, only the market law can change overnight. Therefore, it is important that the minister will be able to bind his consent to the intended use. To date, adequate official information on the possession and use of the land is lacking, but one of the objectives of this bill is to obtain such information as being available to the public free to a certain extent. At the same time, governments are given a control device to intervene in case of excessive compression. I'd like to say here that after we went over all the reviews that came into the Board's Controversy, the regulations of the bill became more appealing to those who bought and sold real estate. This is now in view of the fact that if the recipient of the rights and linked property are represented by a total of 1,500 acres [1,500 ha] and approval, it is not usually granted to some 10,000 acres [10,000 ha] or more. It is mandatory to establish consent if the recipient holds the rights of five or more farms, a total of 50 acres [50 ha] or more. If so, it is normal to do so. Councilmen ask: "How are these proportions found? Of course, earth's size has to be varied. For example, the median size of land in the Southland ranges from 200 to 300 acres [200,300 ha], which is over 800 acres [800 ha] in the Westland. It is also important to note that 10,000 acres amount to 0.4% of Iceland's lowlands. So here we are not here referring to the fact that the Kingdom power is dividing itself from earthly parts here and there on the land. If 0.4% is too low, when is enough? When much was discussed with me about buying Americans in Greenland, I was asked at an open meeting if it was possible for the United States to buy Iceland, and my answer was, perhaps, rather boring, that the peoples are not for sale and, of course, they're about to be sold. 40% of the country, however, there are no limits that can be prevented. So we must ask ourselves here, taking a position on what I believe has long been a great necessity for the General Assembly of Iceland to do: when will that be enough? How much of Iceland is normal to be collected in one hand? Is that 5%? Is that 50%, or is it just the whole country? Mr. President. The evaluation of the Ministry of Presidency is that the overall review of law and rules of the seminar is a long run, not a dash, and this bill is merely the first step at which it is extremely important, since a view of land ownership and a further demonstration of land property is necessary to further improve government management to control how much land can be collected. However, I believe this work needs to continue, to continue to look at national rights and resource-related legislation, to investigate the possibility of setting the conditions for habitats or use of countries, such as examples for other countries, and to address the problems of land in many owners. Many have been able to draw my attention to the fact that in many parts of the earth, many owners study even dozens of them that make any decision to make such a country complex. It's been quite a while this spring, but I hope it's so far. The members of Parliament, who have been very diligent in asking for this matter during the winter, have time to discuss it in detail at the General Assembly, and we have the right to agree on strengthening legislation and policy on property. I realize that it will always be difficult to get an approach about exactly where to draw the boundaries. Here we attack it and base it on the detailed diagnostic work I referred to earlier and the subsequent consultations. However, the matter is of utmost importance, not just to modern - day Icelandic society, but especially to future generations. A country is part of our national sovereignty, and it is important that the Council take a clear view of the course we are going to pursue toward both the land's property and its authority, the use of land, and the way we want to see them develop in the years to come. After this, I suggest that this discussion be referred to the case in 2nd. ... andwhat. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-94.u8	Madam President. I recommend a bill of the delinquency of high-priority and the cryo-conservation of their salary past the total election of 2021. The bill is brought by the party of Pirata, the United States of America, the Shocks of the People, and Andrés Ingi Jónsson, an outside group. President. I'm gonna start by talking about solidarity. We'll be talking about solidarity these days. V.E.G. The prime minister spoke of a solidarity when she urged a business in the fishing field to drop from its billions'budget on the state funds because, by permission of the president: That is not a good way to promote solidarity in the community. This is not a good way to be on the same boat through the journey we are on. Although I believe the government has a good cause in this case, I think it is reasonable for this company to consider withdrawing the demands. Now all of us, whether we are running a business, are hired men, senators, or whoever we are. There are fast steps ahead, not just the limitations of our meetings, but times ahead of the economy. I agree perfectly with the highest. Prime Ministers that the responsibility and solidarity of ministers and members of Congress are now under pressure with the common people. Now that there is a tremendous economic crisis, causing many of the loss of income and even the loss of jobs, I feel completely lost and out of all ties with the reality of most people in the community that at the time of these economic hardships, they face the reality of the remuneration of senators and ministers for the next month's convention, in a few days. This procedure will include retrospective pay four months ago as well as a minister's salary increasing over 100,000 dollars. in a month, the salary of the prime minister at about 130,000 K. and our senator's salary, about $70,000. Asking whether it would be possible to reject this level of pay in the light of circumstances said the highest. Prime Minister in an interview with the press, with permission of the president: I think we're all aware that all the conditions in the state are changing now, and it can affect the financial development of everyone in the community, and it can apply to us as it does to others. President. That's no answer. In fact, this is a very good example of how politicians avoid answering questions above their heads. So I'll witness again to the highest word. Prime Minister: This is not a good way to be on the same boat through the journey we are on. I asked the secretary of finance recently if he did not feel normal and self - determination required that members of Congress and ministers be abandoned from these promotions. He answered by permission of the president: However, if there is a serious problem with paying off or losing, I think it would be good for public officials, the government officials, who are in charge, to lead that change, that development. The minister of finance takes all responsibility and suggests that the decision came from somewhere else, but he may at least make a decision, unlike the highest. Prime Minister. But, of course, the highest stand lies. The prime minister, although not moved to give it up plainly. That's what Piratar and I asked for at the highest. Prime Minister, as well as the Conspiracy, that the government itself would take the initiative to cancel these raises, but it did not. That's an attitude, Mr. President. When it became clear that the government would not respond but the Supreme Class, we offered all classes at the General Assembly to bring this matter. Neither did the prime minister. That's an attitude, Mr. President. For technical purposes only. I'm only going through the changes suggested by the bill. First, it is suggested that the rise received by members of Parliament and Ministers on January 1 be canceled. Second, the salaries and Ministers' pay on May 1 is suggested to be reduced by the increase they have in their rights during the first four months of the year, i.e. from January 1 to the end of April. So they come out in equal terms, and they pay the total wage on May 1 if they're the same as they've been. Third, though, it is suggested that the crescent of the salary be established on the terms of the purchase and the European Commission laws so that they remain unchanged until December 31st, 2021, or until the next election to the Council. In fact, the Council now has the authority to give up its own pay, but it would not be right to do the same for those members of the council who are still unelected. President. Now we see tremendous hardships and hardships in the workplace, as I did in the past, with unprecedented unemployment and a major loss of income for businesses, families, and individuals. Those in charge need to realize that under such circumstances they cannot expect to accept this raise themselves, even if it is indexal and even if it depends on the quality of the previous year. Counselees should respond, of course, to the requirement to eliminate all dress - up schemes at such times. President. The best way to live is to recover, so it is not excluded. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Governments change their minds. I hope so much that we can see it, but we have a short period of time. It will be evident then in the next few days, at the highest level. The prime minister and the government want to board the boat with the common people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-94.u9	Mr. President. I can say things, if not all, in the speech of the giddy. A senator and 1st transporter member of this bill. When discussing this matter, the words "fellow feeling " and" leadership " must come to mind. I realize that there must be some system outside the salary of generals and Ministers like others, but not that it is so important in these strange and difficult times that we can allow ourselves to go completely wrong with the nation. And now there are no ordinary times, Mr. President. In fact, the highest. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson, said that we are probably experiencing the largest economic collapse of the nation for 100 years, a collapse and crisis that will last long, unfortunately, and affect the income and safety of a very large community. That is why it was my hope that there would be some parallelity between groups to eliminate these increases. It is true that the meetings of political leaders were repeatedly discussed earlier. When first mentioned, I felt that it would really be so obvious that even the agreement would be right away. Sadly, though, this did not occur, and there was no agreement. That's why we're in the Union with importers on this Pirata bill and, of course, we'll vote for it. At this time when people are called upon to cooperate and that everyone should contribute to them, members of the Parliament and ministers, who make very difficult decisions that are burdensome to entire groups, will follow the lead.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-94.u10	A respectable president. We'll discuss Pirata's bill, the United States of America, and Floki's of the people to undo the arduous increase in pay expected by members of Congress in a few days. In fact, I can and can truly agree with every word. Halldóra Mogensen's senator. I'm just going to do that my subject here will be able to see if any political will is at hand with any members of the council to handle this case and to make it happen in the next few days because we know how this council works. Now we speak for the case. After that, it will go to what? The Economic and Business Committee. There it will be determined completely whether the will of more than one member of the Parliament is at hand to respond. We will see who will stand with the common people through these stirrings. We will see who are willing to cooperate with the community, who are willing to roll up sleeves in order to make it happen. As we have seen, the time is short. May 1st is Friday. It would have to be concluded by Friday, which would have to be said on Thursday to be realized. We throw up a ball, and it's with the board of directors who can show what is in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-94.u11	Mr. President. I'm just gonna put on this one answer. You see, I'd like to call for it from what. Because she mentioned the urgency of the times, would she not recognize that at times when things are needed quickly can be wrapped up and done, even at a time of day?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-94.u12	A respectable president. Yes, it may take a very short time to handle matters that are important to the government. Let's see how important it is to be in the same boat as the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-94.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for giving a nice talk here and giving this case. It is not my intention to give a long speech, not at all, because I think it is absolutely necessary to have hands on this matter, and I hope that the head of the Economic and Business Committee, huh? paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kállson, calling for additional meetings in the Committee to get it done quickly and effectively. Now I don't know if there's a meeting with the Committee tonight, it'd be good to know if it is. Why? Yes, because May 1 is on Friday, and as we know, the pay system needs to get information rapidly and safely, i.e. The government's budget, which was to pay for this raise on January 1, so on. but did not. For some reason, it was dragged all these months, so it is clear that the matter needs to be handled quickly and safely so that a body of Congress can show the people that he is going to be with them. We're going to stand together through this surfer. It's just that way. It has certainly been discussed among the government's ministers and among those who have been expressing themselves in the public field that we are all in the same boat and that we are able to get through this together, we are doing this together. Then, too, we need to show that we are ready to lose out on the promotions that we were to receive this year. A pay raise has been delayed on July 1. about a few months, at 2020/2021, instead of dropping that amount of pay. Sadly, the lead led to this, so the government was not prepared to bring this matter itself, nor was it a similar case, in order to give the nation a solidarity in these extraordinary difficult times. Today, reports of reports of the magnitude of the country's history that the head of the employment agency said that the country's history was likely the same. Before that, about 60,000 Icelanders had to worry about their progress, their livelihood, and their plan to get through this scrap. So it is a very bad message in the community that the Council is just going to let this year's or the last year's raises that has fallen through with no confusion or defamation. You see, Mr. President, members of Congress have power because members of Congress are the lawgivers, and then members of Congress have the authority to intervene in this process, in contrast with others. Other people do not have the authority to intervene in the event of a pay raise. They do not have the authority to intervene and say, "We refuse to pay. " Not to what extent we can do here. We have this power because the centenarian is simply registered in the U.S. Congress agreements. I know a lot of executives support these ideas. It will be fascinating to see who dare to support the case, who dare press it forward, and let it pass through committees and completions 2 and 3. We have seen something like this in the past few weeks, with matters taken up from a Senate hall in two hours with everything. We cannot spread the word about members of Congress that they are not ready to be with the nation in those days. Unforeseeable times call for unconventional action. The step we're making here, i.e. Group members of the United States Group of Pirata and the Gang of the Gangs, are not afraid of a major step. This isn't a Calculus Wall. This is a tiny step toward cooperating with the nation. Senators are required to have a vote, and that has senators. Senators, but now members of Congress are expected to be on hand with the nation, where many people are distressed, especially after today's resignations, and they are to prevent the raises that will appear on May 1.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-94.u14	President. I am one of the carriers of this case about falling away from the increase that is due to be paid now May 1, on the labor day, probably for the first time for 100 years not being held by the Covid virus, at the same time as the highest. Secretary of finance says it's a crisis that may be harder than we've seen in 100 years. 12 years ago, the crisis took place at the highest level. Prime Minister Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, entered and reduced the salary of members of Congress just to show the people of the land that their rulers were going to share their fate with the nation. If you do not share your destiny with the people you plan to rule over them, you do not have the right to trust them. This has been true of military commanders throughout history. Those most fond of their soldiers, the most beloved leaders, were those who shared fate with their subordinates. The history of events before a collapse is that when a decision went up too much in its time, the highest level of wage began to rise. Prime Minister Davíð, son of Oddsson, into. I can't remember when it was, but I remember it was around 1996. He grabbed, and not enough, but called for provisional laws to be set. Vigdís Finnbogadóttir signed a temporary law on the Kjaras Court that slightly increased the salary of members of Congress over general pay development, not about this huge leap, a 45% increase in one board. This was less than a decimal increase, if I remember correctly. There, Prime Minister Davíð Oddsson stepped in and asked President Vigdís Finnbogadóttir to agree with provisional laws to eliminate these increases. Then the same thing happened in 2006, when Prime Minister Halldór Ásgrímsson was prime minister. The elevations were similar. In the second case, I think she was just above 10%, in the other case, she was 56%. Again, the decision of Kjaravordi's day was reinvented. Then, when the Judicial Court was laid down, the people were not pleased with the arrangement and the Judicial Court, and some other committee was put together in the board of dressers. A council then makes the memorable decision on the Day of 2016 to raise the salary of members of Congress by 45%. But notice that earlier in the year, we can see it under the advice of a dresser, all who heard the advice of the feast, including the senators and the ministers and the rest of the council, were raised by 10%, 15% if I remember correctly, and so had been some increase. I haven't had it confirmed yet, but I heard it recently. However, these increases took place, so it was not just a 45% increase in the year, but much more. Of course it all went crazy, ASI and others. It was October, then elections, and a bargain could be released in February after the New Year's Eve. They were upset by 70% of the payers' contracts. Everyone said so, including. Professional society, the entire working force. Piratar and I were critical of this right away. Day was on Saturday, then Sunday, and we saw this rise on Monday and immediately criticized it publicly and formally. I went to see what you could do. The president of Iceland could have canceled this, but it wasn't likely. He didn't. I said that if the U.S. President of Iceland or the General, these three members, were not going to do something about it, I'd suggest a change in this and a special dresser's council. The council did something small to lower the election of members, and members of Congress decided not to accept the proposals and proposals proposed by the Piratars and the bills that we were just in the same place as general labour development as required by the Board of Elders. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, the Senators, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, and no, no, no, no, no, no, for the 2013 for the 2013 for the 2013, and no, as to us from the 2013, as to us... as 70% of pay to us... as to us from the 2013, as to us from the 2013... as 70% 70% 70% 70%ing 70%ing 70%ing 70%ing 70% of paying 70% of pay to us... 70%... 70% of pay to us... as The people were willing to sacrifice it. Everything was upset. What happened? Yes, this dissatisfaction resulted in positive things. I signed up with the VR union to sue the board. The party was all ready to handle this, but the VR didn't want to make this matter a class predominantly, so as a senator, I was a member of the case and the union was an organization for a lot of employees on the market that was faced with an upset job market. Of course, there should be someone involved in this matter, this decision. It would be investigated, and courts would determine whether this Council of State had not broken the law. The law was quite clear, a client's explanation, that pay should not exceed general pay development, as a advice of dressers did. In fact, it was accepted here at the council in that way to reduce the terms of the convention in order to try to aim at 2006, not the 2013 criteria that the majority of employees had to deal with. They talked about the majority of employees. This story is well documented. The conclusion was that the Pirata's strategy was always changed or that the project should be corrected so that members of Congress were in the same boat, following a general pay development as required by the law. It was just put down in a drawer or our modifications dropped. Dissatisfaction in the community and awareness of the need for the situation became water on the mill for a new labor movement. In the spring of work, there was a new labor leaders who began to wage a powerful labor struggle for their clients. V.E.G. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, eventually decided to lay down a board of dressers and enter biographies, which was part of that cooperation, and to reimburse members of the Parliament in such a way that members of Congress, Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, judges, presidents, and other officials will only increase in wages if the public has increased in wages. First, public pay increases, and only then government wages can increase to that extent. It is a brilliantly businesslike arrangement. First, public pay increases, and only then the government's pay may be raised accordingly. At the same time, all who heard them under the CREEP Board were frozen, this was the last spring, and the pay raise to be held until July 1 until January 1 this year. True, it wasn't about everyone. This was not the case with judges and the president, only with members of Congress, Ministers and Ministry. Everyone else had their raise last year, while members, Ministers, and Ministry had to wait and their wages were due to be raised on January 1 of this year. What state benefit was it that forgot to pay it out? I always forget my name. There's some state benefit that's supposed to cover that pay, and it forgot. I've been talking to the Ministry to make sure I know the history of the case. They forgot to pay for it, and now it is due to be paid off on the day of the labor, May 1, in the middle of a crown epidemic, when enormous numbers of people are losing their jobs, losing their livelihood, is losing their means of life. It is not surprising, in itself, that council members and other officials rise on the grounds of which the decision of the feast was canceled. It's a matter of fact, but it's just that times have changed. When we faced the collapse, Sigurðardóttir recommended the daughter of Sigurdur to reduce the salary of the senators and the council. That's what good leaders do. They do so to show the people that they share their destiny. We do not share the terms of the people of the land. The senators and ministers are in far too great a reward, but they divide their fortunes. Fate is such that many of the country's population fall into pay. We're facing a potential crisis of 100 years. Then rulers are to share destiny with the public by also reducing their wages, and that is what this bill is about. The point is on the agenda, I hope the people see the possibility and the permanence of this solution, and it affects the highest. The country's prime minister, Katrín the Jacobs' Jakobsdóttir, so that she steps in like a leader, as did Davíð Oddsson at the end of the last century, as did Ásgrímsson Ásgrimsson at the beginning of this century, and as Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir entered, lowering the terms, or cutting off an unjust increase relative to the situation, showing that it is a leader who is ready to share his fate with his people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-28-94.u15	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion, except maybe by definition. I just wanted to come up here and say a few words about papalism because this case and similar cases have sometimes been called poopulism. I am personally very allergic to plutonium, very allergic to politicians making wrong decisions or decisions that are not wise just because they sound good and cause some target group to feel positive, and people want to hear people say it. I hate this kind of work, I think they're completely annoying, and they're all too common in some political chaos. I'm with a importer on this case because it's not poopulism. This case is a response, like a whale. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson went over the past, a financial crisis that may well become the deepest one for over 100 years. On such occasions, I feel that it is appropriate for us to intervene and show responsibilities toward the rewards we earn, which are excellent. Generally speaking, I would like to have the smallest opinion of what senators are paying. It's the pole I've always taken on the floor of this discussion. In fact, when my salary went up in 2016, I didn't volunteer, so I didn't go into Congress, I think I've been paid for two or three months, I don't quite remember. Then I objected to the fact that even though the decision of the Council of Cathedral was unpopular and was extremely unpopular, even though it was totally infringement in the labor movement. In fact, after that, I think that's what I'm going to do. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson was right, and he deserves his response and what he did afterward at his own expense in return. But in general, I've wanted to conduct my Senate work so that I'm not making a lot of money, I'm not making decisions about them, either for an increase or a decrease, because I think it's unnatural that we're making our own pay. This is somehow inevitable, for we must always set laws on an arrangement that determines the pay so that you will not gain complete freedom from those decisions. But I'd like to have a word on it. I'd like to remember it, talk as much as I can about it, have little opinion about it, and I'd like those decisions to lie somewhere else, not in myself, and that's both about a raise and a decrease in pay. It's because I think it's normal that the politics are above the fact that members of Congress are giving themselves pay. Sometimes in the discussion, there are plans for other people, whether they will take advantage of the money they receive in their bank account or gay, or whether they will reject this or the remuneration. I want to say to this reason that I feel that there are unwanted consequences. They are: If there are two politicians, others do not care how anyone feels about anything, but the other person is going to be popular. He intends to please those who expect the person to refuse the raise. They are two members of the same remuneration who play the same role. The conclusion is that the decent senator who decides to refuse, for his salary is less rewarding than the person who decides not to. The point is, I think it's very important that Congress members are on the same salary, that the same rules, and the same values for everyone according to their status. Then, of course, pressure is given to members of the council, to the presidents of the committee, and to such things. I think it's totally normal. But I don't think it normal for members of the council to be on different remunerations depending on how much they please the expectations of others. Hence, a bill like this has to be put forth in order to make the decision about all of us. That's the only normal way I know how to do this. Therefore, it is important that this case be treated quickly, and sooner, if it was to be reached before a month's time. I wanted to come up here and say a few words about an accusation about plutonium that sometimes distinguishes the discussion of such things. I'm surprised that no senator would come up here and call this plutonium, I was expecting it. But I wanted to come up here and say I don't share the "Populism" shit, but it's not that kind of a case. We're really serious about this. The reasons why we believe this to be true are outlined in a report. It's full of sincerity and honesty and it's not about impressing voters. It's not about satisfying any purpose. We think it's right, we think it's time to contribute this bill, it's going to be accepted, and we'll have the effect on it.
