ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-1.u1	The president has received the following letter from Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir, 3th. We're out of here. "Delayed September 17th.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: I hereby announce that today I have made myself known by the League of the Left Motion of the Green Testimony. I'm going to serve at the Council of the United States, outside council. Sincerely, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjordsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-1.u2	The President has received a letter dated September 24, since the chairman of the branch office of the Left movement, ◯ Green of Human Changes in the Committees of the Parliament, as shown by Article 16. Parliamentary convention: Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir gives up his seat as the head of the General and Education Committee, but takes his seat as the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee and trade committee instead of the Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörnóttir. Steinunn, Israel's Árnadóttir, takes up residence as an assistant to the Foreign Affairs Committee rather than the Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's Daughter. Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson takes his seat as an assistant to the Environment and Transport Committee instead of Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir. Þóra Árnadóttir takes his place as an assistant to a welfare committee instead of Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir. Then Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson will be taken as the head of the European Parliament's Council of Iceland instead of Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brjörfjörðurfjörðurfjörður and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir as an assistant in that committee when these changes occur. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object. The president has received a letter dated today from the Council of Porita president of the Council for the change of men in the committees, such as the 16th chapter. Parliamentary convention: The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson will take the seat of Ævarsdóttir Edvarsdóttir as the head of the professional board. Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir will be replaced by Hrafn Hrenns Gunnarsson, and Jón Þór Ólafsson will be a substitute for that committee. Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir will be a substitute for Hrafn Höfns Gunnarsson. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object. Then, at the same time, Prime Minister Pirata, a Smári Mccarthy, announced that he would give up his seat as the chief member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and thus remain available on that committee. The 5th issue, 1st. 14 grams. According to Congress, each member of the council has a right to at least one. 1 members of the Committee on the 13th. So the president proposes it. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenlfóttir, who continues to sit as the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the proposed changes are made from the council of the Left Motion of Green. Check this if you do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-1.u3	Pier Porta's chairman also announced a change in the rule of the House of Congress on the way that the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson will become a party president of Pirata and a Smári Mccarthy secretary. Jón Þór Ólafsson will be head of Pirata.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-1.u4	In view of a pandemic crown virus and previous implementation of temporary variations from the council in behalf of committees, the prime committee has provided a bill, the distribution was read earlier, of the change in councils, of the authority of members to participate in committees by telecommunications. It is suggested that such a bill be completed according to the 95th paragraph. Congress is granted from the 17th floor. to meet with members of the Committee and the 22nd C.E. of the Summit's Summit. It is also suggested that there be continued guidance on meeting services and the use of telecommunications at meetings of regular committees sent to members of Parliament 30 April. The variants will be considered approved if they do not speak out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-1.u5	Prominent prime minister on behalf of the government, as stated in Article 62. Conferences, will be held tonight, and the discussion will begin at the end of the week. 7.30 this afternoon. Meeting arrangements are made for the discussion. Passing takes three, six minutes, five minutes, and four minutes, but prime minister has 12 minutes to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-1.u6	The President has received a letter dated September 13th, from Hrafn Djörn Gunnarsson, 3th. Smoke. n., reporting as vice president of General 5, U.S.A.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-1.u7	Shall the election begin for the 5th vice president instead of the Helgi Hynfns Hrafn of Gunnarsson, as it were, 5. 82. g. Congress. I've received one appointment, approximately the 11th. Smoke. S., Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Since there are no more than chosen, I pronounce Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson to be the 5th vice president of the Generals. I congratulate him on his vote and for his entire career.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-1.u8	The seat of other senators is now being replaced. It will only be changed in the light of circumstances, and it will be the complete agreement between the presidents and the presidents of Congress and the president's confidence. The senators did not raise their comments, that the president would take the seat on behalf of the council. The president asks members of the Parliament to stay in their seats and not return to their new seat until the decision of the prime minister of the evening. Everyone will sit in their old seats until this meeting ends, and before you come to the conference, the seats will have been reprinted and attached to a map so that everyone will be able to walk readily to new seats at the time.
