ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u1	The president considers an agreement that may last longer, but the Congress dictates, if necessary, as part of an agreement to pay for the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u2	To answer these questions, Prime Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers, Seafood and Agriculture Ministers, Health Ministers, Tourism, Industrial and Development Ministers, Social and Juvenile Ministers and Environmental and Resource Ministers
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u3	A respectable president. One of the factors that the Great Depression in the past century taught us, and especially the sentences of the Smoot-Hawley law in the United States, is that when nations try to cope with heavy and economic events and protect national markets with increases in customs, it prolongs the depression, that deepens the crisis, and always at the expense of the public, and especially those less fortunate and with less income. I'm here to ask the highest. A minister of customs we're about to discuss later this week, which is directly addressed to consumers, and also put on the heads of farmers in my opinion, because we're supposed to support agriculture, but we're not supposed to do it through customs. The European Union does this in a very literal way, not in building walls, but in a major way, taking action against farmers. I would've liked to see that the farmers were being strengthened, but these middlemen were released. But the government is about to increase the customs, increase the seas, not allowing farmers to get this directly to them, and to strengthen them or prevent them from raising the food car to consumers, but much more so, so that this will go directly into the middle. In this case, ASI is completely against it. The Contestant is against this, and the Necessance is totally against it, and business is also, for example. They keep their eyes focused on this and warn against going that way. It's an old-fashioned way. It's a bad way for homes, it's a bad way for the professional life that depends on us getting rid of things that are not so old-fashioned. Today, when 25,000 people are out of work around the country, they will remember when the diet rises. And it's quite clear from what we've got that it's going to rise. That's one of the consequences of the government's proposal that I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of: Why does the government choose the route and route of protection instead of strengthening farm bones, defending them, and defending consumers at the same time?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u4	A respectable president. The government does not choose a course of distress or trouble, nor is it a matter of combating consumers or shops or farmers. That's a long road away. This is one of the proposed action, along with the direct support of farmers. A senator even took ... todothislastweek. So this is a mixture of measures taken by the government for the sake of Icelandic agriculture. Most countries around us are supporting their productions, and we are not immune to signs of that too. I can't say in any way today how this may affect the changing of food to consumers. We see, however, that the price of meat is falling to a global market, reduced 14% if I remember correctly this year. In some way it must return to consumers in this country, for the price of meat must take into account the price at a global market. I'm also going to take less of it. A senator's assessment of the changes we made in the conversion of the tollovates that took effect this year. We made a deal with ASI to monitor prices on the market, and this report has been presented and covered. I'd like less, too. A member of the conference that took place while we were changing the procedure of the distribution of tollovata. Then perhaps there was a little more sound in the cylinder for some of the people who are criticizing the actions we are taking to the moment, without precedent, as we often call. [[The president calls.]] The case is for the treatment of the committee, and I expect that we will have a good and upbuilding discussion when it comes from there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u5	A respectable president. I just don't know who's being fooled here. Why is this not a clear, clear answer? We see completely, and we know from experience that the worst way to improve the interests of farmers and consumers is to do this old-fashioned way of the government. No country in Europe is going exactly this way, a way that may deepen the crisis and increase the difficulties of people and businesses in the country. Instead of acting like other nations, the government chooses this way and puts capitals directly to farmers. This way, to raise customs, is a bad way. She has a competitive position, it doesn't improve the interests of farmers, and it melts all the incentives we can put into the agriculture. I would like to encourage the government to retract this case. The restoration is ready to put extra money directly in strength to farmers, not to go that way. It's a bad way, and it's a competitive situation, and I don't understand why. A minister cannot simply come up here and say: Yes, I'm going to. [[The president calls.]] I'm gonna stand by the public. [[The president calls.]] I'm gonna stand up for consumers, and I'm gonna stand up for farmers. But the government's going to be with the middle people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u6	A respectable president. There's more of the Saturday vision. A senator has the future of Icelandic agriculture and Icelandic society. Let us bear in mind that this is not a difficult or more serious matter than that already. A senator held the status of agrienvironmental minister was not designed to change the system we are putting back on now. It's not more serious than that. This government changed the distribution of tollovates from the already existing system of things. A senator was doing what I do today. [[Up front.]] That's all there is to change. I didn't hear all the time. So a senator was appointed to the office of one accord over the fact that the method of deduction was more than half dead by the consumers. That discussion did not happen then.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u7	Where's your freedom?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u8	Where was freedom? [[THREE: Where is freedom?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u9	I guess it's true that this exchange of words is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u10	Mr. President. In this deep economic depression, the deepest one for 100 years, and the job crisis that she has followed, thousands of people have lost their jobs. In November 20,906 individuals were unemployed in the overall improvement system and 5,448 in a decrease in employment rate or a total of 26,354 individuals. The number of homes that are left behind is job loss, and there is a danger that a debt person will accept a job crisis if nothing has to be done. Like companies, homes need support because of a drop in income and kickback. Reykjavík's trade union has suggested that specific support is aimed at ensuring the safety of homes whose jobs have been lost and whose income has been dropped in a pandemic. ASI has adopted that idea. The VR website shows that time is obvious, that time is quick to react, and many homes are already at the edge of the finish line. The VR image includes the access of both the state and the bank. Support loans will be given to households with 100% national responsibility and a discount on a total income tax to cover their payments. Banks are expected to measure the legal capacity of their households and provide them with a stipulation loan in the form of a monthly loan line with a Kingdom guarantee. In this way, the home can continue to live up to its commitment and to support itself and its families during a financial failure. Such a loan line would be up to 18 months if necessary. I'd like to ask the highest. Whether she has studied these ideas and if so, how she likes them. Tells you the highest. In these difficult times, do not ministers need to provide additional support for the homes of unemployed?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u11	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for this inquiry. I can agree with many things in her case, especially the troubled situation of tenants. I'd like to state that in the time of this government, unemployment improvements were improved, first by 27%, then again now and by the years and will rise 35% during the season. Furthermore, it was decided to extend special support to the children of jobseekers, who is an idea that the senator proposed last year, if I recall correctly, or in spring and was extended today. How important it is that we support people who suffer from the trauma of losing their job and while thinking about promoting investments in society so that we can be sure that unemployment will not be long - term problems. It is known that my biggest danger in Icelandic society is that unemployment will be long - term. However, these changes for jobseekers are not the only ones that have made to meet income - rich groups. I'd like to remind you of the tax system changes that we legalize around the biographies agreements, but the latter part of them will come up for future years and will benefit mainly from income-rich groups. Children's benefits are also raised in the funds we now make. The cutoffs are increasing that are very important, for it is also important to support income groups when it comes to many children. With regard to extended support loans. A senator specifically asks about them I had a fine meeting with the representatives of the VR where they introduced these ideas. They will be considered in the group where the Minister of Social Affairs is setting up and is scheduled to review the status of the households. It is intended to cover the stage and to consider what is best for this group, including those ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u12	Mr. President. There is no time to put the problems of the household on a committee. There you need to respond in a rapid and effective manner. V.E.G. A minister went over what her government has done on that matter, and despite all of that, January 1 is becoming a basic non-employment, after all the increases, just less than 88% of the minimum wage insurance. An unemployable man has to have three children on his alimony to cover minimum income insurance. It is obvious that many of the homes of unemployed have suffered a huge loss of income, and many of their homes are in debt. Thousands have been out of work for more than six months, and problems flare up. You have to pay off loans, pay rent, pay insurance, dress, and feed children, and other members of your household. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she really feels that she is doing enough for the homes and is content to put their problems on a committee while responding to the company's problems. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's nice, but the same needs to be done for the homes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u13	Mr. President. Hv. A senator indicates that I said here that there was enough to be done for the homes. It was not in my case, and a slightly strange conclusion was not made. Senator. What I learned was that these and other ideas will be considered by the Ministry of Social Affairs. We have all the suggestions we might try to be very careful with what we are doing, not just for people, but for companies as well. That's exactly what counts, and it's certainly got a small hit at the finish line. We just have to face it. I would say, however, that the actions of the Icelandic government on behalf of Covid, and then I'm talking about the economic and social operations, have been successful, and I'm sure that when we begin to publish in the economy, we'll be very quick to kick back to the bottom and reach a tremendous growth in our economy. It is of great importance to all the action we have undertaken so far, both those that have been for people and businesses. I'm not worried that there's no quick response. There's been a rapid response so far, and it's going to stay.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u14	A respectable president. According to the Constitution for physical training from January 1, 2018, under the regulations and framework of physical therapy, health insurance pays 90% of the total price against a prescription for physical therapy. Medically secure physical therapy can be performed without request to a maximum of six times a year. Then he says, under the permission of a president: The Minister of Health has extended the regulations on reimbursement costs for the services of health therapists who work without a contract with Iceland's Medical Insurance until December 31st, n.k. However, the change is made that there is now a requirement for a reimbursement of a written request, a reference, from a doctor or a physical therapist who works at a clinic. There was a warrant for the SI for reimbursement for six courses in the treatment, although there was no written request available. This document has now been published by the physical therapists who are not employed under contract with the Agency. People who become seriously ill with Covid-19 are at increased risk of symptoms of depression, post-viral stress and other physical symptoms. At that time, those who experience a slight contraction have been able to receive non-medical physical therapy and go directly and directly to the treatment of physical therapists. Now they need to contact a doctor and wait for him to have time, even for weeks, to undergo physical therapy. Isn't this throwing the dollar and saving the dollar, the best? Minister of health, where time is important? The longer waiting for necessary physical therapy, the longer the patient's physical training needs. Treatment becomes more expensive and the loss of work as well as increased pain and even a large increase in medicine intake. I'm asking the highest. Healthcare Minister: Why is it to change this directive?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u15	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator has had a conversation before about these matters here. Because of what? The senator took special note of those who have received Covid-19 and have some medical problems following this, I want to mention that I have decided to reserve special funds to support the expenses of the rehabilitation of those who have been infected by Covid-19. We are also participants in international research in this regard. Hv. Senator's asking about the Regulation. In all cases, the appointment of a health - care provider for treatment is required by a physician or by a physical therapist, and it is to answer the need for a degree of compatibility in the ministry to make sure that we are building up our ministry in line with health and health policy. However, it must be kept in place that the conditions mentioned in the Regulation for emergency treatments up to six times over a 12-month period are permitted. We are also making the transition to the terms of emergency treatments without formal requests, but only when physical therapists operate under contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u16	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, but I can't agree with it because I don't understand the change. This change is not good for anyone in either the health system or for those in need of this service. I checked it out. I was going to go to physical therapy today and I was going to see my family doctor and schedule an appointment. They said, "No, you don't have time. " You have to order in a week. And then you get in line to order in a week. You're welcome to get in. So if a person has a slight sprain, he does not have time and therefore cannot undergo physical therapy directly, which is the least adequate and inexpensive form. He may need two, three hours. But if this person is to wait a month or more, he needs a lot more time. He may even be in need of painkillers and even get into the medical system. It must be far more expensive. That's why I ask, is she really gonna throw away the crown and save the money because there's nothing else going on here?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u17	A respectable president. As mentioned in my previous response, the change in the Regulation for the year applies. We actually have an opinion at the Ministry now as to what takes them, and especially about this emergency treatment I mentioned earlier, and these six times in 12 months. Today, we have an opinion of exactly how this is going to be done, and I'm going to review arguments with and against them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u18	A respectable president. I don't usually feel like a combination of sound and image when the government puts out its views and goals, which has probably never been as separate as it already takes into account the department's activities. Last Saturday, we introduced the highest. Prime Ministers updated the government's climate targets. Yet, the goals that now fall dead and dissipate are not old. First, new targets are called for an increased reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. Instead of the current target of a 40% fallout from 19901⁄2030, this goal will now be set at 55% reduction or more. Thereby measures are planned, particularly during land use, and at last more emphasis should be put on climate-related development cooperation projects. All of this may sound fine, but just three days earlier, the prime minister's company, the highest. Environment Minister, as measured by a bill for the establishment of a high-inland park that will block further energy production within the national park, will be created. Further energy efficiency, which is possible according to the root code, is a very small item in the big picture, so you can assume that the so-called waiting scheme will all fall down, if the bill is in the law. That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister, first of all: Does Prime Minister believe that further energy production is needed within the country of the next few decades, even in the case of the projections of the Energy Agency? Second, where does the prime minister plan that energy comes from? Does a minister even see himself carpeting the country's lowlands with windmill gardens to counteract the restrictions on the highlands? Third, does a minister agree with the aims of noncarbonization to limit the production of green energy as much as the target of an existing set of laws on highland land?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u19	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the Environment and Transport Committee, who seems to think that the way to achieve our objectives in climate is about putting the high ground all under the hydropower workers. I understand a question. A senator like that, and I don't agree with the grounds. A senator's gonna give himself away. I think we can work it out together. First of all, this government has, like, a what? A senator is aware of the importance of strengthening the transport system, which is not unnecessary, and that includes. to provide suggestions on how to make such decisions more efficient. It will give us a chance to use the energy much better than we are doing today because there is a considerable waste in the system as it is now. Second, reduction in emissions is not merely about producing more energy but about using energy differently. This is not the only place we're talking about electricity. We are also talking about other factors, such as hydrogen, methadone, etc., because there are different sources of energy needed to achieve success in different articles from energy exchange. Then, when it comes to a state of noncarbonity, which is just another goal than what causes direct contractions of greenhouse gas emissions, I don't really see what kind of park is involved, since it is talking about, first of all, land transplants, forestry, a carbon - based operation. All of it is something that I believe we have full opportunity to do and do more and do better than we do now. In fact, Iceland's goals on climate are like they were presented here on Saturday, goals I've heard as far as any good solid solidarity I've had at the council, I think it's very realistic to get to them, and that without a major energy projection. That's not why I'm saying that we need to get more energy for the future. I think it's like we're just past the time that we have to adjust to two different teams when talking about nature's protection and energy production. [[The president calls.]] It's a matter of finding a balance between views, and I think the Minister's bill on a central national park actually does. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u20	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Despite my feelings for the tutor, the prime minister continues to ignore the questions himself. But there's a big misunderstanding that I'm suggesting that all the highlands are going to be built up, but there may be some way out of the way that we're going to expect an unprepared question period, and we all know it. But just to get my hands on these questions, which I addressed to the highest level of my life. Minister: Do Ministers disagree with the Commission's assessment of the nation's future energy demand? What's the highest perspective. Prime Minister to windmill gardens and their scopes in Iceland's lowlands?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u21	Mr. President. It doesn't mean to ask questions and then complain about responses, it's not a way out, it's going over the big picture as it is. A senator knows as well as I do that it is important to cross over. If we discuss what is right in the highlands now, compared to the second and third stages of a frame plan, it is 45 megawatts of the 1,400 megawatts there, so it is not as if we are looking forward to something missing, even though we are putting up here with a happy bill on a central highland park. Another objective of the park is to restore vegetation and soil that can serve our objectives of increasing carbon binding. Hv. A senator then specifically asks about my position on windmill gardens or, as he put it in the previous question, if I was going to carpet Iceland's lowlands with windmill gardens. Of course not. However, it is very important for me to know that we have a clear framework for building wind energy in Iceland. I believe that there are, of course, opportunities, but it also matters that we do not block the whole country with windmill gardens, although we will, of course, use wind energy with other energy sources for the future. [[The president calls.]] It is my vision, but they shall not cover the whole earth.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u22	President. A recent review of Kleiss reports with permission of presidents: THE earth is now rapidly dwindling, and this is followed by a great turn of events. Globally, sea levels are increasing with the potential dangers for millions of people. Near the melting glacier rises as the earth's wheels drop, and territories appear as it recedes. Similarly, the limitations of the earth's glaciers, which affect activation, can also change, and rivers can move, which can affect transport. President. One of the quickest ways to reduce contamination resulting from melting is to prohibit the use of black oil in the ocean area. In view of the recent meeting by the World Council of Nations, by permission of the President's Committee for Development, last November, which includes an agreement that the prohibition against burning and transport of black oil will not be valid until 2024, and in view of the fact that it will not be respected by any kind of exception until 2029 I ask: How do the government intends to do so? To speed up a ban on fire and transport black oil in the North Sea, Prime Minister uses his hand in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for filming a very important case, and I think we should talk. A senator is just concerned about the environmental impact of climate change that we see. In anusting glaciers. They will affect our energy system and life for long periods of time. Here we actually see a tangible sign of the climate that is so important that we fight with all possible means. We discussed just before, in the first question, about emissions shrinking and increasing carbon binding. Hv. A senator here brings out the black oil, which is another matter. Of course, we have banned the use of black oil within the United States and have used us internationally to allow such a prohibition to dominate a larger area. But already the step is to ban the use of black oil in Icelandic land weekend, just so it's perfectly clear. We have naturally spoken about this internationally, as do all other ambitious climate goals. Of course, success will not be achieved if we take only that prohibition. While we take action to reduce emissions, surely international cooperation is needed. I can't tell you exactly how these matters are on the international level, but I hope so, and I know that we have a variety of allies in that subject when this has been discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u24	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for Answers and clear declaration that Iceland has banned black oil and transfer within its territory. Iceland is now the head of the Arctic Council until the next spring. That's why I want to ask the highest. Whether the Icelandic government will promote the approval of the Arctic Council on the ban and transport of black oil in all parts of the north.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u25	Mr. President. Just to make it clear what I said before: Black oil is banned in Icelandic land weekend, not transfer to black oil, like a whale. A senator mentioned. That is what calls for greater international cooperation. Yeah, we've done it. In other words, Iceland has been in the Presidency of the Arctic Council and there has been a considerable debate for the environment, but there has been no agreement at that point. We've been talking about the increased limits in the spirit of the one we've approved here. But moving black oil is what requires cooperation to achieve an international agreement on these issues. There we have requested an agreement, but we have not yet succeeded, but we are applying ourselves in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u26	Mr. President. Governments around the world should declare a state of emergency in climates until the world has reached non-carbon, said the chief U.S. secretary, Antonio Guterres, last day, at a special summit of countries that signed the Paris Convention five years ago. Similarly, in August of last year, Guterres, when he encouraged the world's countries to take on more radical climate action after the G7 Summit summit in Biarritz, France, and told them as they did on the first day that the Paris Conference was not available. At least 38 countries have already declared a climate emergency and hundreds if not thousands of cities and rural communities worldwide have done the same. To declare a state of emergency demands that the state expand its efforts to combat greenhouse gas emissions. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Has a climate emergency been discussed in the Iceland government? If so, what is the government's opinion of declaring a state of emergency in climates and what is the highest opinion? The prime minister has a similar statement?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u27	Mr. President. This is a talk that has been going on for quite some time. But in these matters, the big question may be the difference between words and actions, for we see the world's state declare a state of emergency, a state that supports even nonrenewable energy with Kingdom grants more than renewable energy. It is the world's situation that we have internationally, that global support for nonrenewable energy is still greater than the support of renewable energy. Fortunately, this is not the case in Iceland. What we've spoken about in these matters is not necessarily the largest words, we haven't had them, that's quite right, but we stress that we will reach the goals we set out for them. Some of the world's kingdoms have set out ambitious goals, but they have not explained how they will achieve them. They are quite a few of the meetings I have been sitting in and listening to exactly this: Actually, we have no plan to do what we're going to do. I have emphasized that we can live with what we say. Now we are uplifting our goals and setting out new and ambitious goals that I think we will achieve. In fact, if we followed the summer action programme, an updated climate-related action programme, the first funding of the climate action programme that has made a turning point in the battle of the European climate crisis, for when this government did not take much pride in these matters, we would be able to achieve significantly beyond the previous goals. So I think we're going to get the goals we're going to set out right now. I think it's realistic, and I think we're going to make it. Emergency or no emergency, I think it's so important that everything we're doing shows how seriously we take this disaster. I have discussed little more internationally. Then, too, words need to be followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u28	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answer. As often as before, it seems to be the highest. My prime minister read my thoughts, for later on, I was going to establish these goals and how we are going to reach them. As we know, the prime minister on behalf of the Iceland government declared that the Icelandic government had updated its targets for greenhouse gas recession and is now moving towards a 55% lower emissions of 2030 compared to 1990, but not 45%, as has been the goal of the past year. It's good, and it's necessary, and I'm happy for it. At the same time, we are not following the European Parliament to reduce emissions by 60%, nor are we at the top of the EU Commission, as many other European countries have done. Britain is heading for a 68% reduction of emissions, Sweden has set its policies on 63% recession, and Denmark has 70% of its target by 1990. And speaking of the climate action programme, Iceland's actions to achieve this new goal are still to be introduced, just as it will do in detail the timing and objective measures of the current government action programme on climate change, which was very good to be updated. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I ask: When will the current climate action programme be updated? [[The president calls.]] In order for us to achieve these updated criteria, we need to do so. [[The president calls.]] Will this updated Action Programme be timed and what measures will be added to the current climate change programme?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u29	The president asks why. Senators looking at deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u30	Mr. President. The difference, in fact, from the first government action programme to the upcoming and presented during the summer, is quite large in this way so that the updated plan covers different sectors of society, which are targeted. After reviewing these matters by the Management Board experts, it is human opinion that the main measures needed to be enhanced are to work faster to achieve these contractions. We are continuing to aim for certain key factors, whether they are energy exchanges in transport, the lack of carbon exchanges in certain branches, the exchange of energy in marine outlets, etc. We need to strengthen these measures. What follows is the course of such goals. We set out those goals. I am very happy that Iceland has participated in this meeting. There were countries seeking to participate in the one who was not allowed to do so because they were not considered to be close enough in their plans. I believe that we are based on the foundation we presented during the summer, and financial plans will be put forward in spring, where this will see the place. [[The president calls.]] It will likely then be clear what action we want to move and what we want to speed up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u31	A respectable president. We're finally paying a vote on a so-called ambassador's bill, but now for the first time, we're making some rules about an ambassador's order, and we're getting rid of the most part of the lifetime recruitment process that has been available so far. When the guy standing here arrived at the Ministry, there was up to 4 percent of the diplomats in Iceland. I think there's a chance we've had a world record in a number of ambassadors, at least per capita, as it's called. This matter has generally been very well received if a person is left alone, which is the government side. It seems to me that this is the only case that has united the party of Pirata, the Central Party, the Conspiracy, and the Restoration. [[Up front.]] Of course, people's party hasn't been involved. And now that they've done everything they can to kill this case, it's finally a vote, and I'm excited to see how it works. Senators vote. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u32	A respectable president. Senator Pirata's party is behind us at this vote. Here are some benefits, but it remains that there is also a law that still gives ministers too much access to appointing without advertising to a special office that we do not support. In addition, the case of the entire case has been awesome, as was the case with the highest degree. Minister here just before me carries such a sign. There's been a lot of debate within the Ministry. Ministers of themselves, even in an unprecedented way, and it's strange to get such a pill from a minister in the middle of a vote. But at least we'll do it. An explanation for our votes and we will sit by and vote against the regulations that give Ministers way too much access to appoint ambassadors in their own interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u33	Mr. President. In general, it says the highest. Minister, of course not correct. There was no review that gave me a positive report, and I can't remember any guests except from the Ministry Director who recommended this bill. It's not to be generally accepted. A minister is deceiving the council hall with such words. However, it is all right to say that the number of ambassadors appointed outside the ministry can be fully reasoned. But this situation does not make sense. It's not made known to me. It is an error, I say, error, to limit the flexibility of the ministry as it is done in this matter as it is proposed. It would be almost as if I had made a change in my move, and the Central Party is moving, postponing the execution and revising Iceland's foreign service legislation. It's what we propose, to postpone the renovation and re-examination. [[The president calls.]] We will not vote for this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u34	A respectable president. This is a recommendation that makes the highest possible. Minister of state, far too much space to order a special ambassador without advertising. The Pirata House does not support this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u35	President. I hereby recommend a committee study of a bill to legalize a transsexual act. This is the first of three cases related to the sexistic autonomy that will be scheduled for a meeting today. This issue is about a change in age. A general and educational committee discussed the matter and received various visitors to their meeting, and they also received reviews on the subject that can be read in the Committee. The bill suggests the right to change the official registration of gender, as well as the concomitant name, at the age of 15 instead of the age of 18 at the present time. It is also suggested that individuals under the age of 18 are excluded from the limit that the change in registration of gender and concomitant name change is allowed only once unless there are special reasons. Finally, changes in the human names laws are proposed to maintain harmony between them and the rules of the bill. There was a great harmony among the visitors on the importance of accepting the progressive self - determination rights of children and the privacy of those who included them. Reaches the image and sense of gender. In the treatment of the matter, there was a view that it might be dangerous for a child to change registration without parental position and that children and parents should be assured appropriate counselling. In view of the greater part, it is necessary for children to have parental support in these matters; however, the greater part is the need for the decline in age criteria. The majority of the members agree to the position of a staff on a number of legal and regular changes due to the sex-alone laws that are presented in the group's proposal that adolescents at 15 years of age have sufficient development to decide whether it is right for them to change their gender registry and to recognize the consequences of that decision. In this case, a greater proportion of the service group will agree that the importance of the rate of gender registration for adolescents is a legal requirement to limit parental or parent prescient authority. This will highlight the importance of the decision to change the official registration of generation is reversible and very simple. In this context, the greater part would also like to point out that the proposal of the work group suggests possible updates on the assistance of transpaediatric patients who do not have the support of their guardians and point the other part to that discussion and to the need for adolescent support when faced with such a decision. In fact, this bill is a preliminary process of sexual autonomy, in which a working group was assigned to consider how the 18 - year - old age limit could be extended to 15 years. In particular, it has been suggested that this is considered desirable, but it is also suggested that youths aged 15◯18 may change their registration more frequently than older ones. The majority suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir was away from the case, but he signed this opinion according to a warrant in the Generals Act. Under this opinion, in addition to what it says here, Páll Magnússon, president of the Board of Directors, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir Ármannsson of Þorbjörg Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunlugadótir, Thordldur Ævarsdóttir Hevarsdótir, and Egilsdóttir Egilsdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I only have one short question about the cost analysis. I didn't feel it that way at first glance how this affects Iceland's National Book and what costs are involved. Like what? A senator named can change more than once. Is that correct, then, that there is no limit? Is it possible to change what you want? In case of a moment. A senator could review the cost factor, whether it takes an example to include additional funding to Iceland's National Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u37	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For answer the Birgir of Þórarinsson. There has been no progress from the National Book of Iceland that because of the sexual autonomy legislation, there has been some high costs in a national file, and I know that there have been no financial requests there, and there is no expense analysis available with this bill, so I conclude that this is a very insignificant cost and something that is available within the country's daily work programme of nationals. Yes, it is right to expect that youths under 18 years of age will be excluded from the limitations of changes in the registration of gender and concomitant changes in sexual autonomy laws and therefore may change their sex registration more often, but in general it is assumed that these registrations can be changed only once unless there are special reasons. So for those under 18 to be able to do this only once is something they cannot do. However, this means that it is only once average.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Just speculation like that, if it's allowed to change when a person is 15 more than once, more than twice, more than three times, can't this have any effect on the school system? How does that work out for you? It's just a question. Has this been discussed within the Committee? I was just looking at the reviews, but I didn't see any comments directly related to the education system. In case of a moment. A senator could only review how this is going to be the case if suddenly there are significant changes in the social registration of some classes and elementary schools, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u39	Mr. President. As shown in the Committee opinion and also in a report made by a team of 15 - year - olds who have enough maturity and are very aware of what it means to go and change their generation's registrations and even their names for a national registry, so I'm not worried that youths will go into this unless a very well considered case. Of course, we never know what life is about, so I think it is important that it is possible for them to be able to change their registration again, and we're here just talking about a change in registration. This is not something that is irreversible. Rather, it is only a change of name. But because youths are making such changes in their thinking, I don't think that there are any reasons to worry that this will disturb or interfere with the school registration system. This will be updated like any other computer system, and I think the community is all there for the changes that come with this bill and take care of when the names are changed as necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u40	V.E.G. President. We're here discussing a sex - self - discipline bill, a change in the age range. First, I want to thank a prominent speaker for his talk. The law on sexual autonomy, which was taken care of here at the last assembly, suggests that the matter we address here has been set in a process. 'The decision was to submit a review of the age of those who change the registry of gender. During the last assembly, a greater part of the General and Education Committee was appointed to set the ages for 18 years. This was decided, as it might be dangerous for children from 15 years of age to change their registration to gender without the position of a guardian. This was then considered burdensome, and I agree with it. I've come to see the need to provide child and family or guardians with support and counseling. It should also be noted that children with multiple disorders and/or with severe mental disorders may require additional assistance. It should also be said that a 15 - year - old is said to be compatible with the right of children to influence their own lives. In a panel of committees from the last council, more of the General and Education Committee declared an understanding of both views. At that time, a greater proportion of the General and Education Committee considered it proper to aim for 18 years than to assign a group to check if the target age would be 15 years. The staff had seats to pediatrics, pediatrics doctors, pediatrics psychologists, pediatrics psychologists, Intersex Iceland, representative of the Associations of '78, sexist, ethicist, and two lawyers, one with expertise in child rights and the other with knowledge of human rights. Then, in August 2020, the team concluded that its own right to change the official registration of gender should be determined at 15 years of age. By permission of the President: ▪ The group believes that adolescents at that age have sufficient maturity to decide whether it is right to change their gender registry and recognize the consequences of that decision. However, the report emphasized that support for youths who did not need the support of their parents for the change in registration of gender must also be given to them. Then the staff suggested that the right of individuals under the age of 18 be allowed to change their gender record. Then it's the bill itself. are presented for changes in paragraphs 4 and 5. legal on sexual autonomy that the right to change the official registry of gender and concomitant name will be 15 instead of 18 years of age. It is suggested that every person who has reached the age of 15 has the right to translate his or her gender into a national record. It is then said that children under the age of 15 may change the official registration of their generation by means of their guardians. I can well say that youths who experience homosexual acts are a very sensitive group. They may be subjected to harassment and violence, both physical and spiritual, humiliation and discrimination. That is true of other groups. This can cause insecurity, social isolation, distress, and mental problems, or challenges. I agree that self - esteem and self - esteem are important aspects of social health. The staff concluded that a 15 - year - old child had sufficient maturity to make a decision to change his or her gender. The task force also said that the decision would be reversible and simple, but it also pointed out the importance of a change of mind for children to make it easy for them to return to their children. To me, this is a big decision, and if a child is to change the official sex registration to the age of 18 it must be done in consultation with parents or guardians. I'll make it work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u41	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Committee's list of changes to the bill to correct a set of laws on sexual autonomy this case is called a change in gender registration. A general and educational committee discussed the matter, and they brought in visitors to meet with them as well as the committee received reviews and can be read in the committee's opinion. The bill suggests changes to various laws because of the sexual autonomy accepted law, No. 80/2019, on the other hand, changes due to the sexual autonomy legislation allow people to have neutral sex registrations and changes to ensure parental status of people and individuals with neutral genders. Along with this bill, a bill was provided for the legislation on the alteration of children's law, which is still being treated in the General and Education Committee. There was a harmony among guests that the bill will bring in an important legal remedy for the queer community. The majority of this points to the need for changes following the 2019 approved sex-sustaining legislation. The majority suggest a few adjustments in wording for correction and explanations, but they are not meant to influence the subject of the bill. I'm not going to read all of them, but I'd like to see them in the committee's opinion. But I reiterate that this is a phrase change that does not affect the subject of the bill. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the changes included in the opinion of the committee. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir was away from the case, but he signed this opinion under the authority of the staff of the Council. Along with the one listed here, Páll Magnússon, chairman, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir Ármannsson of Aarmann, Þorbjörg Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunulótir, Thorldur Ævarsdóttir Hevarsdótir, and Þórunn Egilsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u42	Mr. President. I recommend a board of committees with a change in bill proposal to correct a transgenic law. This bill is known as atypical sex trait. A general and educational committee has discussed the matter and has had various guests at their meeting, and I'm not going to read them all up here, but they're all listed in a committee party. There were also reviews from various sources, and they are also traced to members of the committee. The bill suggests that sexual autonomy laws add new laws to the changes in the sexual traits of children born with an atypical sexual traits. Then it is suggested that a detailed procedure be made with regard to the decision for permanent changes, including order to be ordered by the minister to appoint a new team for babies born with atypical sexual traits. In general, the importance of ensuring the physical immunity of children born with atypical gender characteristics, the right of children to participate in decisions for permanent changes in their sexual characteristics and the right to information sources, as well as to ensure the best available health care care. We are particularly concerned about 4. The bill in the Committee opinion. It discusses youths aged 16◯18, but it suggests that the principle is that lasting changes in the sexual traits of a child less than 16 years old born with a non - sexuality should be made only in harmony with the child's will, as 2 mgr. Section 4. The bill. In the treatment of the case, a cautionary view was found that the approval of a child alone would be sufficient to perform such operations once a child is 16 years of age. As a result of the prerogatives of the greater part that children 16 in the age of 18 are independent users of the medical system and that the approval of parents is not generally defined by the health system. The majority also points out that in the case of a child between 16 and 18 years of age, the child's approval is not limited to making permanent changes in the sexual characteristics of the child but also to a group of childhood and adolescent mental status evaluations of gender by 13. legal on sexual autonomy that it is in the best interests of a child to perform the operation. 5 mg. Section 4. The bill is suggested as a rule of two types of medical treatments that failed otherwise under 2 mg. It is suggested that these two types of treatment should be less appropriate than other permanent changes in non-typical gender characteristics of the child without the approval of the child, however stricter rules apply to these types of treatment than to other medical treatments according to standard practice. On one hand, there is a so-called balanobalaminus, where the urinary tract is short and does not reach the end of the penis, while there are growth defects in the penis. For the Committee, serious comments were made to the special rule and thought that it would lead to two groups of children not being legally protected and thus contribute to discrimination. So the committee was encouraged to suggest that the arrangement be removed. Most of the shares count 4. the bill is a vital legal act for children with a nontypical gender characteristics. Opinions on the above-mentioned treatments are currently established. The majority of the meetings thus feel that it is necessary for the discussion to continue and that the arrangements will be reviewed, as expected in Article 11. the bill, but the committee does not suggest a change in the text indicated in the text of the bill, i.e. that there will be a special principle on these two types of actions. Seven. The bill suggests that a minister appoints a new multiannual team for children born with atypical sexual traits. For the Committee, it was concluded that the same arrangement should be carried out on a team command of Article 13. Act on sexual autonomy and the removal of the mercenaries from the National Hospital Youth Department. Rather, only hospital matters and health - care ministers would be required to determine where the service was to be performed. The majority stress that each team is cross-cutting and ordered professionally. Changes to the arrangement of a team command according to Article 13. The law and the transfer of the jury, however, requires more observation, but in the Commission's list of parts of the General and Education Committee on the bill for the Sexual Self - Control Act, which later became the law of No. 80/209, was thought to be important if you were to benefit from the experience and knowledge that existed in the hospital at any time. The majority of them are directed to the Ministry of Presidency to consider in consultation with the Ministry of Health whether there is a basis for harmonization of these materials, but they do not suggest a change in the setting of the bill. Finally, I'm going to discuss only a group of work that is discussed in Article 11. The bill. According to 1st mg. 1 1. The bill shall be appointed by the minister to appoint a task force within three years since validation of Article 11. a to review the provision based on experience, research and knowledge development and best human rights projects. In particular, they should be evaluated for 5 mg. 1 1. a, including the right to remove the law. There was a view that it was not acceptable to wait for another job in this series for three years from the office of the law. Rather, the group should be appointed at their execution. The majority of all rights are that within three years of the arrest, a minister should appoint the staff. The majority feel that it gives Ministers room to order the staff from the office of the law, but no more than three years after their implementation. The majority of the expedients the importance of talking about the group of litigators and directs it to the minister not to delay the ordering of the group in spite of the issue. In these, it is also important to gain more experience in the implementation of the law and to monitor the development of research and knowledge. A greater proportion of the rights are the importance of giving proposals to a ministerial servant as soon as possible after he assumes and suggests changes in his work. In other words, when the work force should arrive was not required, but the committee insists that it will be as soon as possible. In 1 1. The bill is a requirement for the work force and is given how it should be combined. In the treatment of the case, the importance of social workers in the group was reflected. The majority of the figures, and it's called here, are that the prospective task force is wide and cross-cut. The majority point to the work force on reimbursement of Article 11. a will also take into account the importance of support for parents and children. There is no basis, then, for the staff to call other specialists or other counselors to counsel them, and this certainly includes social advisers. So the service group has some room for which experts feel it is advisable to call at a time. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following changes: Volume 1 5th. Section 4. put it this way: ▪ In such cases when a child is unable to grant informed consent due to a young age or because of others is unable to indicate its will, however, it should be. mg, the following apply to the permanent changes in the sexual status of the child less than 16 years of age born with atypical sexual symptoms if they are undergoing surgery due to the oliguria (cavioral aneurysm) or chemotherapy for penile hypoplasia. This is a word change that does not affect the terms of Article 4. Instead of the above words, hormone treatment should be allowed to be carried out in the 6th paragraph: Despite the above, hormone therapy is allowed. Here, too, is the word change, which does not alter the content of this article. It is suggested that the service group be placed in Article 11. suggestions should be submitted as soon as possible after starting the appointment. Under this view, the writer of this committee, Páll Magnússon, chairman of the Board of Directors, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir Ármannsson, Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdóttir, Þorbjörg Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunlugadótir, and Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Orvardótir. I hope, of course, that this bill will be accepted with the changes I've made here and with the evidence I've been through.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u43	A respectable president. In an consideration of the individual articles of the bill - and I want to start by saying thank you. An outstanding speaker for her fine speech, says 1 Corinthians 15: 58. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ The diagnosis is not really medical, but it is based on a largely social phenomenon of gender. The bill suggests that atypical sex traits are part of social diversity, not a medical problem. In Comb 4. However, as to what needs to be evaluated when changing these sexual traits, it is stated that if the child is, by permission of a president, he should be allowed to indicate his will, he should be allowed to change the long, long - term symptoms of his gender if any health issues require, after a thorough assessment of the need and the consequences of the changes to the short and long - term (see section 4.4). Then it adds: The benefits of social, psychological, and physical reasons are not health - related. [[The president calls.]] So this is to say that there are health reasons to go through these changes, although the definition is that this is a social problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u44	Mr. President. I think it's fundamental to bear in mind that when we're dealing with atypical sex trait in the bill and in the transsexual law, a very broad definition of atypical sexual traits is used. It is somewhat different from the way it is defined. This is a wording that covers the wide definition. So very many of these atypical sexual traits are physical, and that is how social matters. However, there is also the concept of which the concept needs to be considered in the medical context. [[The president calls.]] So because of the broad definition, I think this expression covers it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u45	V.E.G. President. To me, this is a contradiction. It is said that the definition is really social, but social or psychological conditions should not be taken into account. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament later opposed to the 4th C.E. published by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. It says, by permission of the President: The Society shall inform its child of lasting change In other words, parents are to explain why the Council gave rules that, if I understand them correctly, do not allow parents to make those decisions. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u46	Mr. President. This is a reminder that parents will explain to their children if there are permanent changes in their sexual organs and thus signs of gender and that parents have this conversation with their children.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u47	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for history. I feel that there is no mention of how many children are born in Iceland each year with atypical sexual traits. I began doing research and found that the work group's report refers to 1.7% of children. In Iceland, about 4,000 children are born a year, so 68 children are born. And that's an incredibly high ratio. If we look at the figures from the United States, and I just had a lot of work going over a lot of numbers there, we talk about one child out of 4,500,5500. But here we are, 68. I think there's got to be an explanation why there's such a huge difference between these numbers. [[The president calls.]] Ain't that a problem, huh? A senator, that there is no mention in the bill or in the report how many children there are here? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We have a full law book here, and we don't know how many children there are.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u48	Mr. President. As I explained last year in answer to my question. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson has a wide definition of atypical sexual traits in this bill. This may have a bearing on how many children are thought to agree with the law. Of course, we cannot know what kind of children will be born in the future. I don't think that it's the most important thing to count the children or that the figure is necessarily a key factor in this matter. Rather, it's to have the setting so that all babies who are born can have respect and feel good in their own body. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u49	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I just think that this information has to be correct. Why is there such a broad definition here in Iceland when it is customary, e.g. ... notin America? If we look at only Harvard Medicine's respected medical journal, we will refer to one child every 4,500. That means that, in fact, one child is to be born a year in Iceland with atypical sexual traits, but we're assuming they're 68. It's just a little work I don't think is okay with, Mr. President, because we have to have the right information. Then I ask, if it's one child a year, can't you improve this service right now? Does this require extensive laws? Maybe that's what someone disagrees with me about. At any rate, I feel that there is a lack of accurate information. [[The president calls.]] At the end, I just wanted to introduce myself to the fact that there is no medical background or surgeon or anything about this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is that not a major flaw in the case too?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u50	Mr. President. This bill is the product of a group of workers set up when we agreed on sexual autonomy. In that group there were doctors, including endocrinologists. It was shown during the treatment of the Committee that they did not submit a review because the bill presented here and the General and Education Committee is suggesting that they be approved, materially unchanged, is the result of a group of personnel where these doctors sat and therefore arrived at its contract. This is simply a bill made up of a team of experts who contribute their knowledge and skills, and this is the result. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I think it's done very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u51	A respectable president. We are here to discuss the matter of No. 22 About sexual autonomy and atypical gender characteristics. About 1st. The bill points out that in cases where foreskin is typical, this procedure will not fall under it and may be performed or intended for religious or cultural reasons. The bill has no effect on whether such actions are performed or allowed. There was now a client in Iceland who sent in a review and pointed out this. And I ask, didn't it make sense to respect the child's right to decide the actions that are made for religious reasons, that would be in there, so that it would be clear that all children were protected? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u52	Mr. President. As indicated by the name of the bill, this bill is a song for a change in sexual autonomy and is about atypical sexual traits. These are the ones who are born with atypical sexual traits. That is what the committee adhered to and discussed in their treatment of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u53	A respectable president. It's a preliminator for what's gone. Senator. It should be noted that child equality is being handled by children's right to make these decisions and that there are no decisions without taking into account the right of children. For some reason, it's turned upside down. In fact, it is specifically stated in the bill that actions such as these do not depend on it, and in themselves it is being said that it is acceptable to take action for religious reasons. I ask you, if you're defending your children at a different table, why can't you put this in? In fact, it is stated that it was done with girls. Fortunately, this has been arranged. Still, you cannot walk all the way in and do this so that all children are sitting at the same table. I ask you, should not all children be equal, but just some? And should you be turning out of the way by saying that something else means something else? They're talking about the right children.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u54	Mr. President. I object to it and completely dismiss it that I am turning something out of the way. Here we discuss changes in the laws on sexual autonomy, and we deal with the part of the law that deals with atypical sexual traits. Whatever it is. A senator is not a part of atypical gender characteristics.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u55	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his career. Now I did not compromise the case on the committee, nor do I respect the opinion of the committee. What caught my attention at the time when this case was being handled on the committee was that only one health - care professional came to a meeting with the committee. Therefore, I did not share in overcoming this matter. I thought we needed more information from that sector, i.e. Not only from members of the organization but also from others but also from other health workers on the scene to explain this to us. Now I'd like to ask you what. A senator knows why the committee was not joined by more health care professionals.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u56	Mr. President. Now I can't exactly say why people pass a review and why they choose not to. Well, anyone they want to turn in a review. However, as I have already studied here, the bill is based on the results of a group of personnel that reported, and in that group there were paediatric surgeons, pediatric surgeons, and child psychologists, as well as members from various members of the community. It was also noted to the committee that one party did not consider a reason to enter a review because the bill was the product of the group of work they were in.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u57	Mr. President. All of this is good and good, but now there are some natural committees that can provide information for members of the committee. That's what I thought, e.g. in this case it will not be fully updated and will therefore suggest that this case be called back to the Committee between 2 and 3. so that others will be called to review the matter. I'm not saying that this cross-cutting group was a child psychologist and some kinds of doctors, not at all. But that in itself doesn't help me as a member of the committee to take a stand on the matter unless I hear more evidence and further explanation why this bill should agree in the form it is now. I just think it's a very big deal and I would have liked to do it better. That's why I've requested it to come back to the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u58	Mr. President. I'd like to say, later, to recall that when there's a sexal law, which I remember to be no. There were 80/2019, at the General Assembly, reviews from doctors who thought that there would be a better way to provide certain specific factors for atypical sexual traits. It's a prehistoric story that the group I referred to was appointed. The matter, therefore, was specifically reviewed because of indications presented during the treatment of the matter at the time. Now we're here discussing the results of that work. So I believe that this was an exceptionally successful assignment and that this case has been taken a special twist, precisely because of the doctor's comments that agree with the case as it happens today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u59	Mr. President. This is a happy day, not just for those who gain a better quality of life when we agree with a similar situation - and I aim at the number of members of the committee who sign considered to be wrong. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Ánar has crossed here - but all those who have the advantage of the people whom the bill embraces and us who want to live in a equal society, not only in word, but also on table. Or perhaps not only on a table but also in a word because we are discussing a long - term, long - term change of law. has fallen to bring legal rights equal to what we have as a community in many ways. We have come a little ahead of the law regarding our attitude toward the rights of gay people. As we have seen, there are three prime warnings regarding changes in sexual autonomy, a law adopted about about a year ago, which has been set up, including the following: has been appointed by a medical committee, including health care professionals. In fact, things did not work out, and that may be disappointing. I will see that afterward, but doctors brought back their views, which the committee took their stand for this time. Because I didn't come up in the first two cases, I'd like to kill on their importance, too, even though in some sense what we're discussing here is the biggest change. A bill for the change in age criteria, with the range of ages ranging from 18 years to 15 years, is so important. We've been talking, e.g. in connection with the Covid epidemic, mental health and mental well-being of young people, and this is the core of the mental well - being of young people involved in the matter. Suddenly, there is a legal recognition that they are what they truly are, and that is the ones who have the first and last happened to them. It's so important. Then there's a law on the changed sex registration. Of course, it is primarily a slight word change, but for the queer community and the queer individuals under whom it is a giant step to celebrate. I'd like to mention just one thing, that when I looked at the reviews, I saw that Mosfellsville is a special host of this bill, and that changes are a positive step, such as anyone who sent in a review, but specifically shows the importance that rural communities are assured access to education and counseling in general on the implementation of sexual autonomy laws. I think it's very important that we keep it in mind that we make sure that it's there so that everyone in the world has what it takes to hold this party. This brings us to the bill for the treatment of atypical sexual traits. They're down to the Intersex population that, as we've gone over here and hopefully all, people who can be born with atypical sex disorder, such as sexual symptoms, which are strange to the standard sex categories that we know at the time of genitals, reproductive organs, and other symptoms related to hormonal function or sex. All figures indicate that this is quite common. This is probably more common than the numbers tell us because the fact is that it was not written on the top. Not only have people had to endure noncommunications, even without knowledge, but this information has not been maintained. These are measures that may have had serious and irreversible health consequences, both physical and mental. So it's no small deal. I'd like to mention, just to keep it up, that this is the change in permanent changes in the sexual traits of a child less than 16 years old born with atypical sexual traits only in accordance with the child's will. If the child is unable to agree on the basis of young age or otherwise, it should be permitted to change its symptoms permanently if health issues require careful consideration of the need for change and its consequences for long and shorter periods of time. This is a very important step. This is fundamental to our enjoying all physical immunity. What is more important than the ability of all of us to determine this? This is also a vital step toward exposing this confidentiality, that the state's transparency of the importance of intervention. It has been criticized that we are not yet ensuring all individuals physical immunity because legal requirements require that action on short urethrals and small dicks, as long as the consequences and benefits of such measures are felt. Hv. A prominent speaker handled that matter well earlier, and that may not be a reason to put into words. It was just a review of the majority of the Committee, as I understand it, of the advantages, the flaws, and the consequences of going all the way. Healthcare professionals who came before the committee and worked with the Committee that these matters were very clear in their opinion. The route here is a review of this. I interpreted a word of it. A manager here so that the law states that within three years a committee can be set up to investigate the matter, but I would like to ask for it and wish that such a review be started immediately. I don't think there's any reason to doubt that we have the information we need. I hope so, and I know it's a good thing in the Committee that a minister will immediately strike that work. This particular point is in contrast with the stated purpose of the laws on sexual autonomy since 2019 C.E. This group is excluded. There have been reasons for this. I think it's a good time to go into it and take a closer look. This is a little interesting because we've been standing here before discussing these matters. We agreed to a law on sexual autonomy, but we also talked about the rights of transmise people. It's very interesting, on the one hand, people fighting for access to health care and then we have a group of Intersex people who are actually fighting for peace in health care. It's just this: It's our body. Let us figure this out. I don't think it's reasonable to approach this matter in any other way than to say that it's a perfectly reasonable and natural wish. The good rainbow card, which we like to have, tells us that when we count the legal rights of queer people we have met and what we have not met, our overall event in that many kinds of places around 54% is ours. If we agree with these bills, without a doubt we will be much higher. I don't know how much, it's a complicated calculation, but it's really important that we finish this. It's more important than a lot of ideas that we're done right now. Icelandic society has for a considerable time enjoyed certain false security when it comes to the position of queer people because our community has come, I don't intend to say light years, much longer than the legal setting for gay rights. That's why we have the law here sleeping a little bit on guard duty. We Icelanders and indeed the whole world have been unpleasantly reminded of how quickly weather can take place. When winds blow, the Roman Empire, which have given human rights a considerable amount of time, may quickly lose its feet. This case, completing legalizing these rights, is a very important step. Of course, it is of utmost importance for those who have everything and their caregivers, as well as for our community. I think it's very important to keep in mind that we're following a trend. We're not making this up. It doesn't blow out of here by people who intend to use these legislation. We are responding to a call, to meet the need, to fulfill our obligation. We are ensuring the rights of individuals, their right to physical immunity, their right to live their lives in the same way that everyone else did. It's about nothing more in its simplest form than the freedom to live on its own terms, the freedom that we're so sure of, and it's been so long that we've become immune to the fact that it's over for people who haven't lived with it and are now at the mercy of the law to get it. So let's finish this thing. Our society has come to this place a long time ago. The legislature has been a boat. We'll fix it. It's not supposed to be like this. The more people in our society have the right, the physical immunity, the sexual expression, the sense of gender, the more people who have their own lives in the community, the stronger we are. Surely we all want to row that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u60	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in sexual autonomy, atypical gender characteristics. U.S.A. gave a review of the matter, and I think it was the only one who pointed out that it should be the same with children as with the United Nations Children's Convention to ensure that all children are equal, and unfortunately, it is not done in this bill. It would have been very simple and right to do it if we're at other levels ensuring this right, which I completely agree with. They have this right. But for some reason, the lawgiver has to specifically enter the bill in a report on the unique articles of the bill, which correctly state 1. ... withauthority of the President's permission: From the definition and principles of the bill, the so - called preputial surgery or the boys' surgery, in cases where sexual traits are typical, leads to a fall outside the sex - sex laws. Preducation procedures are being performed in this country for medical reasons and are the most common cause of hypoxia and causing pain, micturition problems, infections, sexual problems, etc. Therefore, it may be medically necessary to remove any anterior part of the foreskin or open without removal. When it comes to children less than 16 years of age, such actions take place under 4. The bill, for example, is considered to be a form of gender in such cases. The actions are authorized by the conditions listed above. The bill sets, i.e. with the child's consent or if the child is unable to accept when there is health reasons, then the procedure prescribed should be followed. Preducation procedures in cases where foreskins are typical and where such procedures may be carried out or planned for religious or cultural reasons fall outside the standard range of the bill and therefore do not have any effect on whether such procedures are performed or allowed. I believe this is just saying: You can do such operations on young boys, regardless of their age, for religious or cultural reasons. There is no other explanation for having these monasteries in there and not using the opportunity to put it in the law as well that not all children are under the same hat. We've been dealing with this problem with girls luckily. There is, as we know, a very serious problem going on in the world and needs to be really good at it and are being done. We have set a fine example, but for some reason, we have decided that boys are okay. That, too, is the case in paragraph 4. the bill that lasting changes according to the 1st and 2nd terms are considered to be Surgery. There is surgery, totally unnecessary surgery, performed for religious or cultural reasons. For my part, I ask: "Why on earth are we still going to do this once again, when we have this chance, not to decommission this in our legal code and put it all together once and for all time that this is forbidden? It also says that action is valid for a purpose, if it is a medical procedure, but then we also allow action and say that it is okay because some religion says that it should, or for some other reason. We must be equal. We have the United Nations Children's Covenant. UNICEF in Iceland points this out. I know that there are health - care professionals as well as others who agree with me that it's really incomprehensible that we have not yet dealt with this problem. It is also amazing that we should not have a new opportunity to do so now, since we are on the other hand making a careful bill to be careful of children's rights as some of the things that require the right to avoid major surgery on their bodies unless it is vital and not to discuss vital action with parents and vital actions that need to be asked immediately before the child can accept it. Of course, this should apply to all such matters. We are not to take one point out, as is done in the bill, as we simply put in the text that religious and cultural reasons fall outside the set of values of this matter. That's an amazing phenomenon. I really hope that this case goes back to the General and Education Committee and it's going to be taken care of. We have to do something about this, and we're embarrassed that we're gonna let this hang loose again, and we're not going to be able to finish it. Here was a fine opportunity for us to take out this ugly spot and set a fine example for the world to be sure that we will not be included in the body of children for some religious or cultural reason. We're supposed to be more developed than that. No matter what its manifestations are, in the name of religion, we are to rule out all violence.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u61	A respectable president. I think there is a key point in the review and discussion of this case and its related issues - this is, in effect, working out four basics from the World Committee at the same time, which I would like to say to hold hand in hand - simply keeping in mind the history. Regarding this particular matter, it must be emphasized and noted that it is a sad history and the reality of all of us that individuals with atypical sex traits, including children, have over time experienced systematic discrimination, a sense of rightfulness, and an intervention in life and privacy in most countries, if not all countries of the world. There have been systematic violations of the human rights of these children by nonessential and harmful medical interventions and by incarnation to provide necessary medical assistance. This bill simply contributes to this and aims to secure the rights of children and protect their immunity. It is the background this bill is supposed to show up, and this is the background that must simply not be overlooked when considering what is being done here. In recent years, there has been a blessed awakening in these areas around the world, and international and human rights agencies have encouraged countries to establish laws forbidding unnecessary treatments on individuals and children with atypical sexual traits, e.g. with irreversible surgery and sterilisation without consent. World institutions have pointed out that today there are many measures to bring about a child's sexual traits as a society or that parents consider typical for either man or woman, in fact, to be making that decision for the child. These actions have been carried out without the child's consent, and very often without any medical causes requiring it, and they have been based on certain ideas, stereotypes, and I would like to share prejudice. These measures are unnecessary and irreversible and have taken place without the child's consent. In all other contexts, it would not be difficult to see that this includes a very clear violation of the individual's human rights and beyond the independent reasoning that it involves human rights violations against the individual, of course, also leads to serious and negative consequences on the life and well - being of the child. In 2017, the Council of Europe adopted a resolution to this point on the human rights of the Intersex people. The rights of intersex people have been discussed in the UN institutions. The United Nations Committee on Economic, Social, and cultural rights has taken a firm stand in these issues, i.e. for unnecessary surgery on the genitals of children, and these rights are discussed in the child's contract. The Child rights Committee and the United Nations Women's Rights Committee have encouraged Member States to take measures to ensure and protect the child's human rights in this respect. Anyone who knows and accepts the prehistory, all who have observed and developed in many parts of the world and in most international institutions we see, must conclude that this is not just a normal step but a necessary one. This is simply the reality that a part of children has lived under, experiencing systematic violations of human rights because they have been born with certain symptoms that have led them to accept this treatment. The principle under the bill is this: That lasting changes in the sexual characteristics of a child less than 16 years old born with atypical symptoms are carried out only according to its will. The red thread in the bill is that the child's interests are best protected by doing the will of his child. Of course, it was so that when people treated the matter, and when visitors came before the committee, they heard different views, even though I wanted to say that all of them, with two specific exceptions, were in the same direction. To protect your child's interests in this regard, to allow your child to decide his or her own life and not to be placed in a position where he had made an irreversible decision. However, in view of age, it was heard how to protect the child in the context of a decision with responsibility. It is obligatory and stated on the case in both a report and in a committee study that children in the age range 16◯18 years alone do not agree to make permanent changes in their sexual characteristics but also require assessment of a group of childhood and adolescent mental - health team to that end, i.e. in this particular age range. The ideologies and approach are based on the fact that at that time the child is just a child, that it may be difficult for a child to make a decision and stand in that position, but that the main source of light and the main theme is that everything is done so that the child can come and be supported to make decisions he or she wants to make. This has been discussed with the order and function of a task force. I think it is important, as noted in other members of Congress, that the group is allowed to start their work as soon as possible. It is quite clear to me that there is a problem with work here and here is a great deal of effort to meet different viewpoints, as it is suggested that progress is soon to be sought, developed by research, knowledge, and human rights so that it is clear now that the result will be determined. I have to say by myself about the special rules set in this bill about two specific actions that it simply came down to this point that the evidence and viewpoints of health care professionals were so clear and clear that they needed to be taken into my mind that there was no choice but to meet them. Yet, this is done in a way that includes putting that group up immediately to continue the conversation as needed. I find it important in this case, as I said in the beginning, that when we discuss it, we are aware that the legislatator is with this bill and three more to frame it very clearly and clearly that suicide also reaches the sexual part of our lives, that we have finally made it clear to all our legislation that the same view applies to sexual self - control as anything else. The bill includes a grand review and recognition of rights. I think we're here for the treatment of a phase where the whole community should rejoice. We are closing here the section that I traced at the beginning that is the fate of this bill, ending this section that children are being subjected to action that is irreversible and that affects their lives completely without any need. And all of us need to remember that in these matters, we are on the verge of strengthening the protection of our immunity, the self - determination rights of basic human rights, and the sexual autonomy, like other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u62	Mr. President. The names of a prime project are often misleading and easily reduced. In the name of this bill, there are other laws, laws on sexual autonomy, which do not say much about the extras being tried to introduce. The normal name for this bill, based on the institutional tradition here at the council, would be a bill for the prohibition on child healing and then in the parentheses of the urinary and genital tracts, for that is what is suggested here. It's being suggested that there are dozens of children, dozens of children each year at least In Iceland, doctors that they have enjoyed for decades will be removed from life - sustaining and frequent experience and have had a positive effect on the lives of these children. In fact, it's stated in the bill and in the opinion of more of the General and Education Committee and in the previous talks in this discussion that when you refer to atypical sexual traits, the definition is very wide. It's actually so wide, Mr. President, that it's now being added to this group of approximately a hundred-fold more children than have fallen under what is sometimes called an intersex, where sexual symptoms are unclear. It is being brought with a large number of children, dozens of children each year, who may have been using medicine as children have been doing for years and decades but who will now be deprived of the opportunity to do so, and their parents have the opportunity to do what is best for the child. This is a typical case, a case that is completely typical of the political problem these days with all the name, the packaging, and not the content. It is all about a declared purpose, but it does not lead to that goal and whether it is useful or to harm. Let me just mention one sentence from the bill like this to begin with to describe how much twin language distinguishes this bill. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Children born with nontypical sexual traits have the right to physical immunity in relation to their gender characteristics and are entitled to the most perfect health care that is available at any given time. The word does not change in part; however, it is just one of many phrases, a number of examples from this bill, about what can be called the New American or the Šdouble spade, a double thought of Orwellur's style, where things are spoken entirely in contrast with what is actually being done. As for the sentence I read, it says that children have the right to the most advanced medical care at any given time, but the bill is about to remove the opportunity to enjoy the best health care available. Support is conditional. Health is damage. Doctors are torture. Bans are freedom. These are just a few examples of Orwellur's double thinking which will appear on the bill like I'll trace the following. These are not experts, doctors, scientists, or government officials. Rather, they have the most intense aktiens. The bill bears all the signals and, in fact, amazing to read it and that it comes from the Ministry of Presidency because its text is so full of the former Portuguese and double thinking and prejudice, I don't remember seeing another one of the department's prime bill at least We also see who have given a review of this matter in the case of the committee. There are several churches in this area, but the committee does not seem to have been able to consult experts, doctors, surgeons, e.g., on the influence of this case. True, I understand that one doctor set up the committee, the same doctor, and joined in a group of personnel preparing the case, and I suppose the doctor has all the best chapters or precautions in the bill and on that subject. But as we have heard earlier in our discussion, such precautions are not entirely clear and emphasise the speedy review of these measures. I'll get in better after that. Mr. President. This bill from Iceland's Presidency Department of Presidency contains sentences such as this, involved in the definition of the bill, with the permission of a president: The analysis is not basically medical but consists of a largely social phenomenon of gender. I'm going to read it again, Mr. President. This is a bill from the Iceland government. ▪ The diagnosis is not really medical, but it is based on a largely social phenomenon of gender. Nevertheless, there is here, like a dog. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson pointed out that social factors are not considered to be the right of children to take action under the guidance of doctors or parents. It's probably, and I think I can totally say that, Mr. President, the crazyest bill I've ever seen since I started participating in politics. I encourage all to read this subject, read the entire bill, even though it is a long way, read the main text, read the report, and especially the explanation of certain legal issues. I'm going to allow me to promote the theory that not one member of the Independence Party, please. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's armour has read this bill. If this is wrong, I encourage the members of the council it has done to come up and participate in the discussion, for so many things in the bill have been so contrary to the ideals that the Independence Party and, in fact, other groups, the forward groups and others, all classes that have somehow looked to civil rights, have stood that the members of these groups have not been able to read the matter and would still support it. I reiterate the admonition that if anyone has done it, they'll come up here and defend it. But I haven't had much to do with the members of the Independence Party in this discussion or that it is to be expected. This case is inhumane. Then I am not just saying that there are some different definitions or differences in how humane, different viewpoints are. This is not about science, medicine, and progress or common sense but about blind, unshavenly extremes. The whole line of reasoning gives evidence of this. And this is not a question of the rights of people, as some may have thought. It is a matter of action, what cure, what drug is permitted to give children to improve their lives. This is a case that will have lasting effect, accomplish it, have hundreds of children's lives in the future, and that will not be changed by thousands of Icelandic children. This is a matter that will lead to a foreign - language approach to their children for normal treatment, natural healing according to modern knowledge and science. If any other country was banning medical care in this way to children, e.g. on religious grounds, no doubt many local senators waited in line to discuss the importance of condemning the government in that country. I will follow up on the opinion of most of the General and Education Committee, which is not meant to improve this matter, in fact, on the contrary. But because of the small impact of the committee's opinion, there are two changes in the proposals, I think that it's the right thing to start by going over the whole thing. 1st par. deals with atypical sex trait, but then we see in the bill and have, in fact, heard in speeches that it does not refer to a standard definition, e.g. The term Intersex is the most widely available definition in which children with congenital disorders, which, in many cases, can be relatively easily cured, are included in this group and its size, by a hundred times, and the children who fall there, are deprived of normal health care and the children's parents and doctors are refusing to help their children. In Comb 4. The bill considers changes to Article 11. The law to which you refer, the laws on sexual autonomy. It even says, by permission of the president: The changes in gender characteristics of a child less than 16 years of age born with atypical gender characteristics should be performed only according to the child's will, as described above. 6 mg. If a child is unable to agree on due to a young age or otherwise unable to indicate his or her will, however, it should be permitted to change its persistent gender characteristics if any medical cause requires... What a kindness, Mr. President. It is permitted, however, to assist the child if a medical situation demands it, but even in the case of a careful assessment of the need for change and its consequences to a shorter and longer period of time. Instead of worrying parents who have had a child who has some condition that could be fixed and a doctor could explain to their parents: It's gonna be all right, we've seen it before, we can fix it up, then these parents need to walk between Heródes and Pílatus to be allowed to heal their child. So even when medical reasons require intervention, this should be carefully evaluated. The following are additional barriers to parental ability to seek medical help for a child. So says the bill, with the permission of a president: 'Environmental, psychological, and physical reasons are not considered healthy.' This is a bill that has explained to us that sex is a social phenomenon rather than a medical but social reason does not allow actions to help children. So says the following: For permanent change. Case one and two. includes surgery, chemotherapy, and other irreversible medical procedures. I'm going to bet on, Mr. President, and I was told during the discussion earlier that such a provision, which, however, opens up some possibility, has come from the few medical or scientific experts involved in this matter. But as we also hear and have heard earlier during the discussion, the tendency seems to be to minimize the possibility of providing such information. The bill says: ▪ When preparing a decision for permanent changes in the child's sexual characteristics for health reasons, without its consent. 2 mg. The child should be advised to take into account her development and at all times from the age of 12 years. - Even if these changes are for health reasons. A little lower on section 4. says, with permission of the president: In the decision-making process, the child and the guardian will receive advice and support from a team on children born with atypical sex traits. 13th par. a. Always state whether it is possible to delay permanent changes until the child can inform his/her consent and respond to the health issues in other and less severe ways. - Yet another obstacle, Mr. President, to prevent operations that in many cases will have the best results if they are carried out while the child is young. A little lower says: The Precautionists should inform their child of the permanent changes made in the sex characteristics of the child once it has developed. These measures are still addressed for health reasons, but even in this case parents are now legally obliged to review them with their child. You're 11 years old now and I need to tell you that your Nonni system is not working as it was when you were born, so this operation was under attack. However, the same bill shows that in the rights of patients, it was considered undesirable to expect children to have access to information about such actions because it could have a spiritual impact on them. But here, this responsibility is set on parents by law. So goes on to say, and we are still considering the small possibilities that exist, however, for government approval and committees to heal children: ▪ Despite 2nd. the following should apply to the permanent changes in sexual status of the child less than 16 years of age born with atypical sex symptoms requiring surgical intervention due to balano-pterus (balano-ptera) or chemotherapy for hypoplasia of the penis in cases where a child is unable to grant informed consent due to early age or because of others is unable to indicate its will. What this involves is explained further. Once again: What a mercy, Mr. President, that it has entered the bill that a child born with a short urethral, and we get to hear below what the consequences are, may be healed as long as there is opportunity and thereby lead a healthier and better life as a child and as an adult. However, these measures to allow action due to the urinary tract too short or when the limb does not grow properly should be removed in the opinion of the majority of those responsible for this issue. And how do the committee react? Yes, to speed up a review of whether or not this possibility should be taken out. Who should appreciate this? More and less of the same members who came to the committee and wanted this law to be carried out because it somehow involved the replacement of a group of children who have atypical gender characteristics according to this vastest definition in the world that the government puts to work here. Later on in the bill, as I only came in, explain why these specific actions, e.g. Regarding short urinary tracts, it is important and relatively simple to attack them and have shown good results. Still, the only message that the committee leaves for us is the one on the subject before 2 Timothy. .. that it needs to be quick to see if these sources are not to be taken out. The opportunity to provide medical care for children is further discussed, yet what obstacles are being put in place, as far as possible. Of course, even to the point of making specific rules to provide detailed reports on all of this, health - care professionals are expected to hesitate to provide this service. Mr. President. I see my time is running out, but I've just started the first part of the bill, i.e. Its own articles, with two pages of about 20 and not yet mentioned, so I'll ask for the best. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u63	Mr. President. I'm not going to use my time going through all the false records that were in question at the moment. The senator, who was very quick to shoot a point, would mention it and confirm that this bill, which we address today, is the product of a team of specialists who were appointed at the time of sexual autonomy was adopted in the General Assembly. Right away. One senator is surprised that certain persons have not turned in a review of the matter, because it is important that it be shown in the treatment of the case, that there were experts in child medicine and endocrine doctors of the children in the team of specialists who gave up the bill and thus had access to it. They did not consider it to be a reason for reviewing the matter exactly because their views had come out and did not, nor did they, when there was an introduction in government consultations. I'd like to ask you this first question. A senator, who has talked about the coming or lack of specialists: If not experts in these matters, who are to blame. A senator dealing with languages as complicated as sexual traits?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u64	Mr. President. I know the work of this team, and I see that there were two doctors in this ten group, and one of them is, as far as I'm next able, the only physician to discuss the case, i.e. language that the person himself had been working on. But I suppose these doctors have, as I could in my speech, the honor of them were nails, which are still struck in this bill, and it was noted that these defenses had been criticized in the staff and on the part of the committee. But, hey. A senator comes up here and says that he's not going to review all the false records I've brought. I was merely, Mr. President, quoting the bill itself, so I ask why. A member of Congress: Was this just another proclamation flying into the air, as a result, a feature of a discussion on the subject? Or it can. A senator named one, I don't ask any more, the only error in my case here?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u65	Mr. President. In a sense, the injustice was shown to view health care professionals as having had a problem with the matter and had not yet come up with it. I believe, in fact, there are differences in my visions and probably others who sign this and that. A senator's criticism of the title of the law, which, of course, refers to a change in the laws on sexual autonomy, atypical sexual traits, and aggressiveness. A member of the body noted that it could rather be said to be a child with an inborn condition that could be cured. It is simply a matter of the fact that in the vast majority of cases, nontypical sex traits are not about disease but about the diversity of the human family, and there is no need to alter it. However, there are some factors that are especially addressed in the bill that may be subject to other laws, and the committee suggests that certain measures can be taken, that need to be recorded, that need to be well recorded, that we need to have information on this, and then we need to reexamine that procedure. What the bill is primarily about is that we here at the Council confirm it and accept that people are all kinds of people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u66	Mr. President. A previous answer said "what." Senator I'd done a lot of false arts. That's what we're gonna say. A senator told me the wrong thing was that I said the medical staff were against it and had not been involved. That's exactly what I've been discussing, like the highest. The president no doubt noticed, in the manner in which health care professionals had been involved in this case, and he pointed out that the still - present defenses had no doubt come from them. However, the fact is that the committee has not, and indeed not, not the committee that prepared the bill, emphasized the importance of consulting scientists, health professionals, to doctors, to specialists in this field as for people's bodies, children's bodies, but on the contrary, that it seems to be, political alliances that receive sentences like those I referred to earlier, that this is really not a medical matter, but based on the fact that the sex is a significant social phenomenon, the same people, and in fact, that the cure of children for social reasons cannot be performed as it is today. Hv. A senator was so wrong and claimed that I had said that the name of the bill was to be a child with an inborn condition that could be cured. It wasn't what I said, but there are people who speak of congenital disorders, that with the bill, there are a number of babies with congenital disorders that can be cured of the possibility of receiving such healing, as so many children have received the past few years and decades and have enjoyed a better life.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u67	Mr. President. I don't like this bill, and I'm gonna go over it further. I have to say, Mr President, things about this are just not right. I only came into it here in answer to a storyteller, OK? paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir. First, I'd like to mention that I don't understand why this bill doesn't include how many babies are born in Iceland with atypical sexual characteristics each year. There's no mention in the bill, and then when you start digging it up, it's shown in the report of the expert group that worked on it that it was about that. 1.7% of children who are incredibly high numbers, and nothing in line with what I've seen, including for respected medical journals in the West Sea. Approximately 1.7% is 68 children a year, if compared to a pair of 4,000 babies. But according to the American figures I have examined, in reputable medical journals such as Harvard Medicine, approximately one child in 4,500,5500 children with atypical gender characteristics, and this is generally accepted statistics in the United States of Medicine. As a matter of fact, I think I have one or two articles that said there was one child in every 2,000, and if we take note of it, we're talking about two children in Iceland. Here are important information that needs to be provided in such a legal structure that has significant implications for the future. You wonder, Mr. President, is this case being justified rather by creating numbers that do not meet, which are in relation to the most comprehensive ways in these matters? I was amazed when I saw this and just wondered if Iceland was completely different in terms of a number of babies born with atypical sexual traits. If this were true, it would be natural world news, if this mass in Iceland were so vast in comparison with what is elsewhere. This was reported in the morning newspaper, even in the morning. An interview with Amnesty International, and you wonder whether this is the very basis for this figure. I noticed there's a review from them on the portal. But where does this number come from? It would be interesting to know. There is nothing to say about it except that this is the full number of people, and it is accepted in the report. I don't think it's a good thing to put this out in this way, Mr. President. There's no statistics from the surgeon general. Somehow it just comes out. This number is wrong in view of a respected medical journal, and it is not possible to do this, and I feel that it is done in this way. According to Harvard Medicine, a respected medical journal mentioned earlier, nontypical sexual traits are rare, and this is emphasized. In addition, teaching material is inaccessible and desperate in research data. As a result, experts are having problems understanding the best way to handle these individuals. Added to that is pressure from a human rights organization that has grown tremendously in a very short period of time. The same medical journal also says that atypical sexual traits are a complex subject that is truly medically, but also politically. In other ways, especially in the last year, this area has just been dominated by certain groups, and now I am quoting an article in a respected medical journal, which made it possible that expert physicians simply do not have the courage to discuss these matters. That's very interesting, Mr. President. Here we are naturally on a dangerous path, if those who know best of this series are reluctant to express themselves about it because they fear pressure from groups of interests and do not have the courage to discuss it. You wonder, " Is it just the fact here in Iceland because there are no reviews from this field or those who might have the best to know? ' But I know it's been reported here in opposition to the fact that a special team was working on it and there were two doctors. I just don't think it's enough. I'd certainly like to see the reviews of Iceland's Medical Association, and I understand, Mr. President, that Iceland's Medical Association sent in a review, but I can't find it and she's not on a list of narratives. But I asked about it, and then it was the answer that the company sent in a review, so it's true that you'll be examined because it's just very important to have it figured out. Besides, it would have been natural for a surgeon to do that. The doctors and psychologists who support the action of children with atypical sex traits have provided evidence that children do not remember the operation, that there is faster healing and less bleeding, and that they do not grow up unsure of their sex, and that their children and families will not be harassed. This is from Harvard Medicine. Doctors and psychologists who are in favor of such measures mention the factors I mentioned here, that children will not remember the operation, that the wounds will heal more quickly, and less bleeding, and that children will not grow up unsure of their sex, and that children and their families will not be harassed. A thing that needs to be considered specifically, bullying, whether it can have a profound effect on children spiritually if it is forbidden to perform physical surgery. These same doctors are quoted as saying that it is technically easier to perform these operations when children are young and when surgery is easier for a surgeon to do. Those who are involved in waiting for an operation should also appear here, until the person can make his own decision say that even if surgery is easier for a young child, he must not go beyond his own decision. That's the other view, and I'll probably mention it here. However, this article in the medical journal shows that there is simply a lack of data to make long - term research on the subject. Therefore, the risk of surgical intervention cannot be determined and the benefits of waiting for surgery cannot be determined. There's no evidence here, even respected scientists. However, the movers and the government plan to do this all the way, despite the fact that experts in this area, the western ocean, have identified the lack of data for long-term research to determine exactly what they really recommend. It is also unclear, so I continue to quote this article whether those who have said their experiences publicly are relating to an experience that most people in the world have reported. We don't know. Once again, the data are missing. This article says that it will be noted that in many cases medical science was not as far as it is today. This was simply an old technology, and now there is a huge improvement in medical science at the time of surgery so that operations cannot be compared today with actions of 10, 15, 20 years ago because they were much more extensive and technology did it during the days that it was much more stressful for the individual and more long lasting. In 2017 the U.S. U.S. U.S. urological surgeons'organization issued a declaration that it would be unwise to forbid operations on children in the complex field. Most cases of atypical sex symptoms occur at birth and a small proportion of them are life-threatening. Experts who normally handle these matters are about five individuals. This is Harvard University statistics. A specialist in this field has seen five cases in all his activities showing just how rare this is, fortunately. To argue here that these are 68 children per year, just completely out of the map, Mr. President, and I don't understand this presentation. This case is being made more of a judgment than there is any cause for it. Then you ask yourself: Should the lawgiver intervene in the medical sector in such a decisive way as to suggest when we are talking about far fewer individuals than the above? In fact, it is not mentioned in the bill, which is naturally a major defect. Transporters may not want to tell us that they are far fewer than those claiming to be transporters. Of course, if there is something wrong with the health care services that attracts these individuals, it should be fixed but without any radical change in legislation, without saying an authority that we do not know what the consequences are and will result in families going abroad to go to these types of activities because they are banned here in Iceland. Amnesty International asserts that when individuals with atypical biological characteristics and their families seek services in the Icelandic health system, there is a lack of clear rights and cross - color approach and lack of social support and that reduces their ability to enjoy physical health to the highest degree possible. This is a pretty harsh criticism of the Icelandic medical system, I have to tell you, but the organization does not tell how many individuals were discussed when they received this conclusion and how many individuals have the authority of this story to tell. There's no mention of that. This is merely a strong criticism of the Icelandic health system, but no comment on how many have been discussed, how many of the experiences have been reported. There's a major flaw in the formation of the organization. Lack of professional approach, says Amnesty International. Is it really that way, Mr. President, that our health system, which has been successful in the epidemic and staff there, doing a tremendous good job in difficult times, is unscrupulous? Is it unprofessional, as the organization claims? I think this coverage, Mr. President, is very special. You wonder, is this bill rooted in this organization, Amnesty International? I must say, Mr. President, this organization is not above criticism. They go so far in their review at the bill that they regret that the bill set a rule that there is a less pronounced reason for permanent changes in the sexual characteristics of a child born with atypical sex symptoms involving a too short urethral or an undergrowth of a penis, promoting the removal of the rule. Too short of urinary tract and penis hypoplasia are atypical sexual symptoms. The organization wants to ban action on children when the urinary tract is too short. If so, children are to live with it. Medical science is not supposed to help these children. I must say, Mr. President, I think that men are far beyond the scope of this material and that it is necessary to discuss the spiritual element here, the harmful effects of a child's ability to have a veneered genitals, thetypical sex traits that turn toward the appearance, and not to be used by the perfect medical science to fix it. I think there's a check for harassment in schools where kids come together and have to take the gym and shower. It's a cruel world. It's just the way it is. I think it's very strange that this is not being given more emphasis on this bill. It speaks of physical immunity, but is it immunity to be subjected to harassment because of a physical defect that could not be fixed? Now this bill was working on a special team. There's no record of names, which experts it was. Were psychologists of that group? Yeah, they say it's in the Senate Hall. I'm glad to hear it. But it would also be good to get reviews from psychologists. [[Up front.]] Mr. President. I can see that time is running out, but I would have liked to bring in a lot more on this big case. For example. has been discussed here in the Hall of Congress on the right to rule their own lives and to live life the way everyone else does. Do children who have genital defects live the same life as other children? [[The president calls.]] These are all very important questions to answer, and I don't think any parent would want to go through the fact that their child had to suffer at school because of a physical defect that can't be fixed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u68	V.E.G. President. I hear the members of the Central Party are concerned about this matter, that it is not working well enough, and that needed information to make a conscious decision. The evidence of the matter, both on the council website and on the bill on the legal basis and on the committee opinion, is presented with important information that I think the members of the Central Party would do well to learn a little bit of root. It will come, for example. on page 18. 9 on the bill per discussion. However, several members of the council, including the prominent, have a problem. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, covered the work group that produced 2020, and the bill is based on that work. In the field of service, we sat with the leading experts. On page 18. 9 is a list of the song experts. Regarding the alleged lack of references, including From Iceland's Medical Association, you can see on the Web site of the council who received a request to submit a review. That includes Iceland's Medical Association. The Society did not return a review, but as mentioned, it played a role in this bill's contract and believed that its views were expressed in the bill as it is presented. So I think this case is pretty good, and that's why our top experts are. As for the statistics, I'm going to come to that in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for reviewing this. First, about the Iceland Medical Association. I got the information that they had sent in a review, and it seems to be wrong then. Actually, I got that information from the first hand, but we'll see, I specifically checked it because I was so surprised I didn't see their review, so I just picked up the phone and checked it out. But we'll see if there's been a mistake or something. But I fear in this, and I only came into it; and it says to experts from the west of the sea, that those who work in these matters are afraid to comment on these matters because of outside pressure. One might wonder, " Can I get reviews from those who did not share in this work? ' That's what I'm wondering. It comes from a respected medical journal in the United States that this group is in such a way that experts simply don't have the courage to express themselves about it in general. Perhaps that was the point of my presentation in the talk earlier. It's a good thing to hear that these experts are listed here, they were working the natural bill, but I miss primarily the stories of those who did not work the case and perhaps remain neutral.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u70	V.E.G. President. I mentioned page 18. 9 on the bill, and I'm just gonna let me list which experts were involved and included in this team. It was a child surgeon, a child's surgeon, a child psychologist representing Intersex Iceland, a representative of the Associations '78, a sexist, an ethic, and two lawyers, one with expertise in child rights and one in human rights. The head of the group was appointed as minister, and the group served as an expert at the Ministry of Presidency. The composite group was designed to ensure extensive consultations and the necessary access of experts and representatives of the stakeholders to work on the proposed regulations. That's the way it is. You probably don't know what people are thinking or how they feel if you don't see a reason for sending out comments on matters that are intended for the treatment of the council. No one is forbidden to send a review. I believe the senator when he says he's been looking for medical information, but I've just had it checked, and this company didn't get any information. She may have gone to the wrong e-mail or something like that, I can't say it. In the lack of statistics, as the senator discussed earlier, we know that there are always some children born each year with atypical sexual traits, and I have to say that, in my opinion, it doesn't matter whether they are five or 50. I suppose the Senator agrees with me in that this procedure is necessary, but I realize what the senator meant. He may want the matter more carefully, and he is on a budget committee and has become accustomed to dealing with numbers, perhaps feeling that it is better to keep them in front of him in order to be calmer about all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u71	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent answer and good thing that she accepted the experts involved in this work. In fact, I missed a little that a theologian was not hired too, yes ethic, right. [[A pathologist.]] I've traced what I feel is missing from this bill and I think it's very important, especially that with the statistics. My feeling about this is that it's being tried to justify, if that's the way it can be said, rather this job because it's the size of the population involved. But then when you start looking at statistics abroad, the number of people completely contradicts the numbers you can see, e.g. ... U.S.A. You have a feeling that this hat is putting far more people under it than can be done medically, specifically, as we can see in the figures I mentioned from the United States. I feel very strange about this case, but I think it's wrong. Based on what I have considered, in those articles and research I looked up the Internet and went through them, this conflicted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u72	A respectable president. At first, I'm going to let me say that whatever happens. Þórarinsson Birgir has been made on a phone call, and I don't question his words, but whatever he may have been told, there has been no comments from the Iceland Medical Association. I know that such a report would have been welcomed at the consideration of the question. The General and Education Committee on this matter, the more debates and the more viewpoints, the better on such complex matters. Only in order to respond to what was presented in the final part of the talk. A member of the council who spoke of a theologian who may have been closer to him than to a ethic. That may be so, but I still pretend I'm close to what the theologian would have said. He would likely have said: "Guð proceeded to create the man in his image, Adam, and then he took a rib from the man Adam and made it out of the woman. That would be the end of the matter. There are two genders, God created them like this, first he created the man, and then he made a woman out of a rib from a man's side. We're not exactly there anymore, with all due respect for religion and theology. You see, our ideas develop and change as society changes and develops. That was, for example, one. In many cases homosexuality was considered a disease that had to be cured. Here we have heard in the past day's talks about medicine, even that here's a prohibition against the cures and the prohibitions of child medicine, and then it's good to remember that there's nothing very long since medical science, scientists themselves, the doctors, who, in the opinion of some, are the ultimate standards of good and evil, we've got almost the position of God in this matter, it's not too long since the healings of homosexuality as a disease that had to be cured and had various ways of practicing the cures that all proved to be, as we know today, and the general reconciliation of all happiness, because it's all the other things, and not in the other ways, it's all turn out, it's all about power. It's about authority over a body. It's about authority over your own body. It's about the right to physical immunity, and it's also about the definition of what is disease, what is disease, and what is not. It is only natural for us to deal with this, and it is only natural for us to discuss it back and forth and forth and there, of course, that we want to come from the full perspective of the health groups who know the human body better than others. However, the doctors and health care professionals know no better than anyone else what it is like to be a person of atypical gender characteristics. They know no one better than individuals who themselves have atypical gender characteristics. And when we're dealing with these matters and we're trying to create a legal code around how we handle these matters, we're going to have to listen to them people. Generally speaking, it is never in itself a concern that someone will get more rights to live in harmony with his own traits and live in harmony with himself. There is never a reason to worry that others have the same rights as you do when talking about atypical sexual traits, perhaps remembering them. I disagree that the bill should not have become atypical form of sex in its name. That's exactly what it's all about, and you see, it's all a fair fight of rights about who's the right to exist. It is an eternal conversation and an eternity of conversation, and the outcome today is a reconciliation between the different groups of people who are concerned about these issues, and it has been found to compromises since different viewpoints have been taken into account. I feel like this has done a great job here, and I think it's a happy day. I think this is a major stage on our way to get people in our community increased rights, and it is in my opinion that there may not be much more to say about this than if there is reason to recall the good song by the Þórólfsson, I'm not going to sing it, but I remind myself that the pressure in that song was something like this: I am, like I am, which actually echoes the pleasant words of the Bible: I am the one that I am. But then it is like a voice from above that says, "No, it doesn't work. " It's not working. You're supposed to be like I say you are. I feel that this bill now and our efforts are in the process that we stop this and that we listen to people when they say they are what they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u73	V.E.G. President. I'd like to kill a little bit of this and the discussion that's been going on. I immediately admit that you should have submerged on the matter a little earlier than a few days ago, or two or three weeks ago, and rolled over the bill. But that's just the way it is. There's a lot of places to look here. But what I want to say at the outset is that I think our objective here is really what we're all thinking about the same thing. All of us want to be comfortable with our bodies. We want people to be happy, and they do not experience unhappiness because of themselves or the way they are treated. Fortunately, our society is rich in all kinds of people, and hopefully it will remain, people with different opinions, experiences in different ways, etc. It's just to make our community rich. I have to say, though, that what really bothers me in this matter may be that there is a measure of distrust, if that is the case. At the same time, a decision is being made. It certainly is. I feel that this bill is nothing like another subject in the case of the General Assembly, which is about the birthworm. There seems to be a lack of confidence in parents. They are not entrusted with making decisions for their children. It is certainly difficult, though, to appreciate it when a newborn or recently born child develops. I'm worried about it, so that right now, that the child's first year, the elementary school years, may be difficult when a baby is born in a certain way or with certain sexual traits - now that is used - and doesn't have a chance until it's at least one day. At 12 years of age, if I understand it correctly, even older, to have some opinion about it or to make a decision about its sexual traits. On the other hand, those who are in favor of the bill say that it is natural that the decision is made later. I'm a little worried about the years since a baby's birth and then, how the baby feels at school, in society, and so on. Of course, a very young person may react differently than typical symptoms. But I think it's getting a little higher in this case. There are also some contradictions in it, as noted earlier, and I pointed out in reply earlier today. I'll come in a little later. I can totally agree with the members of the council here who have said that it's bad if someone feels bad. We want everyone to be comfortable. Of course you're right. Maybe it's in all of these files, I just haven't seen it, but I'm a little curious about how many of the people who have had an operation of the infants, even newborn - as it is done today, the baby is born, and it's an operation on it - believe it was wrong and wanted to go back. I reiterate, Mr. President, that it may be in these files, but I haven't seen it. I feel that there was something important about whether it was, in foals and parentheses and everything that can be put in advance, some sort of abuse of these sources as they are today. This is what I would have liked to see and accept suggestions about it if it's in our files somewhere and I've missed it. Here are numbers that I'm not going to go deep on the number of people who are given in connection with this matter and what is known elsewhere. It is important, however, and at least curious to know what is right in all of it. It is also this pattern - or what to call it? Not before, but the challenge to immediately review the factors that lead to urinary problems and penile hypoplasia. There's something I may not feel necessary to intervene in this. At least mine knows something that needs to be seriously considering whether to be in there. But these questions were raised by me. I'm sure someone's coming to answer them at the end. In Comb 4. Changes in sexual status are said to be due to health issues. As we have seen, this article will be discussed in the following article. g., the definition is not medical; it is essentially social. If the definition is really social but not medical, why should social and psychological reasons not be taken into account when evaluating the need for these changes? Changes in gender or in sexual characteristics are well spoken of. Why should this situation not be taken into consideration? Social situations may be less difficult, even harmful, or harmful, than medical or medical conditions. Nor do I feel that it is not clear in this matter when any emergency calls out for medical intervention. When is it enough for someone to step in? In Comb 4. says, with permission of the president: ▪ When preparing a decision for permanent changes in the child's sexual characteristics for health reasons, without its consent. 2 mg. The child should be advised to take into account her development and at all times from the age of 12 years. I wonder who values this maturity. Maybe it'll come out here somewhere and I've missed it. Who determines whether a child's development is sufficient to make this decision or is in control of whether to take some form of action or to follow this procedure? Then I'd like to mention that I find something special and, in fact, quite amazing that the Civil Party - or Civil Party, he may be left alone in the government - can respond to taking all this responsibility by the parents but still leave it in part. If this is to be approved here at the council Hall, it is actually taking some responsibility and making a decision from the child's parents. Still, the law says that the parent is going to have to explain to the child a decision that is likely to be made by someone other than them, as the text shows in paragraph 4. If I understand this correctly, it is actually a legal duty for parents to explain, as shown here today, why it was decided to do so in this way. Seven. will be discussed with the change in Article 13. and talked about professional teams, etc. As I understand this, the article does not show how it is to be commanded. It would be interesting to know what professional people are supposed to be on this team. It only says that they will be cross-cutting and appointed professional with proper knowledge and experience. Then you wonder: " Wait, what exactly is appropriate knowledge and experience in this case? If I continue in this article, this is what the president's permission says: ▪ The Motion provides children less than 16 years of age who are born with atypical sex traits, and their caregivers, information, counseling and management according to individual needs and otherwise care for the responsibilities presented in Article 11. a. Among other things, it should be pointed out to clients the appropriate peer education by means of nontypical sex characteristics and their involvement in interests. I don't quite understand why this is being legally established, Mr. President. I would have thought this unpublished team, as it seems, might have a little something to advise on who they are looking for or what advice to pick up. It is under law to receive appropriate peer education by means of nontypical sex characteristics and their involvement in interests. Whether the stakes are one or two or 20 is simply not important. Looks like they're all supposed to come to this in some way. I fear that this matter is not necessarily about to improve the status of individuals who live with an atypical sexual traits. I'm sorry. I'd like to grab a little bit off where we're dealing with some of the articles on the bill. This will be a discussion of 1st pars. These atypical gender characteristics are discussed in the medical field. It is said that it is decided not to use a particular methodology, called DSD methodology. But that's not logical, I think, why it's not used, but it may be secondary. Then I'd like to ask you a question about Article 3. It seems to me there's a story on a change of 11 and 13. ..... That a team of juveniles will no longer give counselling, as I understand this, which turns on these atypical sexual traits. I'd like to know why it is, if anyone could answer it for me. Mr. President. This is one of my main concerns about the bill. I also think maybe this may be a new problem. Then I refer to this social feature that young people experience during their youth, the years that are of the most important social importance. Sadly, we know too many of the ways that harassment, excommunication, and the like treats people. As we want everyone to feel comfortable in our country and to be tolerant of people, it is not unusual for us to be concerned that when they are delayed to make a decision about the sexual traits of children born with atypical sexual traits, they may have a different kind of problem than they might have when they are adults or when they are older. I still miss it so I repeat it, not to see how many of those who have had such an operation at birth and had to live with it would have wanted to change, turn back, so to speak, or disagree with the operation done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u74	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir This is where Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson considered certain issues, especially those he's worried about, and he's unsure about. He mentioned in the first part of his talk that he was concerned that those who were possibly happy about such actions were not being heard and wondered how many had been unhappy, were merely wondering. As I mentioned here, in answer to what happened. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson, all of us. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, son of Sveinsson, is the bill based on the work of the 2020 task force. I reviewed it earlier, and it also shows the evidence, which experts were in that working group. Among other things, there were agents from Intersex Iceland and the '78 Conspiracy. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So I would think that since these people had a direct approach to the bill they have new information, I think we can be pretty sure of that. A man has such a short time in those answers, but in the case of the harassment, we all need to develop more tolerance for our fellow man, and somewhere else we must begin. I think maybe that's the message we should share. to send from us in this discussion, but I'll be back in answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u75	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I have no doubt that within the organization referred to by the senator, people with knowledge or experience in this field have experienced this situation or someone close to them. I personally know a wonderful person who was able to become a woman who was a matter of life and life for the person, and, of course, I welcome it very much. You can't relate to the wonderful person, what life would have been like. It is true that a senator should, of course, be more tolerant of all of us. There are so many aspects of tolerance, as in this case. We want to be tolerant of the children, to their decision regarding their youth, to the continuation of their lives, but we may be able to discern the emphasis on this matter, how tolerance should be manifested. What I was primarily thinking about earlier was about that number. Of course, some may come up here and say: It is enough for one person to want to change after an operation to be said to have a problem with an operation performed by an infant or a child. I just wanted to be curious about how many of the individuals who have taken action and how many have disagreed with it when they mature.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u76	A respectable president. I think maybe there's a little bit of a mix-up in the middle of nowhere. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson because the bill we are discussing now is only a matter of the presence of atypical sexual traits and makes them more attractive to so - called intersex individuals. It's not about sexuality because of a seizure. A senator mentioned earlier, who had been converted into a woman but was born into a man's body. We are talking, not about gender, but about atypical sexual traits. I'd like to say it first. I like that we're discussing this and taking some time in it, it's a little weird, and it's a little new for a lot of people. But on page 18. 14 Indeed, the experiences of those born with atypical sexual traits are discussed, the magnitude of secrecy and shame in being born like this. This law is a part of discussing these matters, making it possible for others who do not know this from their own experience consciously, thereby increasing tolerance and understanding of this. As shown on page 19. 13 Then you are moving the right to the child more than you have been. The Senator said earlier that he was taking something from his parents, but it's not right. I want to turn this around. We're bringing the right to the baby, this is the child's body, not the parents. It also states that the procedure proposed is very careful. I'm not gonna read it here. And then it's 1 1 1. that all of this should be reviewed as soon as possible when there is some experience in how the law is working. So I think we have a very good case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u77	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and the admonition on what is involved. But I'm pretty clear on what it's all about. I mentioned this example to say that we know people who have had all kinds of problems in their youth and even into adulthood, and in this case we are talking about the problem of being born with atypical sexual traits. This is an operation on the person and must live with the rest of his life or until he can decide to have another operation. The other party is that this procedure is not performed and when the person is 12 or older, he starts to wonder if he wants to have surgery and change these sexual traits or something. I'm worried about those years in the first place. I'm not saying I'm full of it. I'm just worried that there's a new problem going on with these kids during their formative years in society, I'm not necessarily denying the formative years of their awareness. There are too many people we know that harassment can have a bad effect on people and especially on children. I don't think we're doing any of the children involved with any favors with this bill, as I understand it, I think it may increase the risk of harassment. Like what? A senator says that it is good for us to communicate, and it is only natural that we have differing opinions on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u78	Mr. President. I would like to start by saying a few words broadly about the bill to which it stands. O.R., bill to correct a transsexual act of change. It has been shown here and that tone has only been underlying, including When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson here during his discussion, convergence with the views of sexual orientation, sexuality, trans, Intersex, and, of course, just what's on the scene, children born with atypical gender characteristics. To do what? A senator can be very quiet, then it's not. At least, the doubts that exist primarily, at least with me and with my members of the Central Party, it's a prohibition against modern medicine on children. This is a very strange case here, where children and parents are being directly banned and, according to social events, all the use of modern medicine to make the child's life the best. It penetrates some lack of confidence in parents in this matter, such as others present to the council today. These include the bill on birth and parent'sort, which is likely to be legal now before the end of the week, where the State's authority wants to have a strong view of how parents share the hysteria with them when the fact is that there is, of course, the birthworm for the baby and that it should approach the subject so that the child's interests are always ahead of time. This lack of confidence can be said to be reflected in the tendency to make decisions in this matter linked to an expert committee. It was a case not long ago, at the last assembly, about abortion, a so - called pregnancy crisis. It all mattered that the right to have an abortion was unscrupulous to the mother, and it even went so far as far as possible. The prime minister identified his opinion here in a child's womb and explained that she felt that this right was due until birth. At that point, we will find that the fetus can be killed just until the birth, but as soon as the baby is born, just a few minutes later, it must not be cured. This cannot be our goal. I just can't believe it. I just can't believe it's the viewpoint of a large section of Congress. Although there was no conclusion in the abortion case, there was a time limit there, so that a certain group of members of the council believe that a baby can be killed in the womb completely until birth, but at the time of birth, it must not be cured. This is very strange, suggesting that this matter, such as many of the others involved in this legal series, is about to be discussed in small ways, both in general and then in the relevant committee. If I recall, the General and Education Committee will handle this case, hopefully on the grounds that the law is saved by a prime minister, not a health minister, although this is a medical matter. That's what I wanted to say before going on the bill itself. There has been some debate about the need to be more tolerant. I agree that there is more tolerance for the good. I'm not personally inclined to be far more tolerant of young children not having the best medical care and service available to them because of some degree. With these exercises, I'm not ready for any tolerance. In fact, I am surprised to learn that the matter has come a long way, into the Hall of Congress. In particular, it is surprising that the independence party and the forwarding party are interested in matters like this. It's amazing. Then, of course, it is hard to hear a discussion of whether or not the Medical Association has sent in a review. There is no indication that the case was available for 2nd. Of course, it would be best to call for the matter to be taken into account. The General and Education Committee, between the 2nd and 3rd. Although I'm not a member of the committee, I present it here with the president and expect someone to do the same in the discussion, if I recall correctly, I need only one member of the committee to suggest that the matter be taken into account. It is obvious that the matter is not ready; it is not available; it has not been discussed so that some intelligent bottom has come into it. In consultation, there were five reviews. The reviews to the council were, if I recall, 13. None of these 18 reports were reported by a doctor or health-related institutions, if I recall correctly. There is nothing from the Land Hospital, however, that sent in a review of sexual autonomy laws at the time of 149 C.E. There's not a word from a surgeon. How can that be? How could it be so unlikely that the surgeon general did not give a review of the case and that the committee does not adopt it itself to call out for it, if the governor's office, in the middle of Covid, failed to give a review of a case in which there is simply a limit to the availability of children to medical care? How could it be that the committee did not adopt itself by calling the governor to review these matters? I'm so sorry I didn't understand. A person may suspect that with this matter, such as the law column when he passed through in 149 C.E., he found it convenient to keep the discussion to a minimum, this stream of confusion, which is absolutely incredible if we look at how this discussion is in the countries around us. If we look e.g. In Britain there is an enormous debate over these matters, and many learned articles have been published. Last December 1st. a milestone in a case related to the above and, according to my information, none of this has been discussed, discussed, and no viewpoints discussed within the Committee. Then there is no reference to any member of the team working on the grounds of sexual autonomy. The members of the Parliament and I had no access to that group, much less members of the council. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. So it's not over yet. And because I know what to do. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir has wished to counter me below, although I am not in position to ask why. I'd like to ask if she'd like to come in on it or not in the opposite direction. A senator does not support the taking of the matter into account between 2 and 3. Environment, although only based on the views presented here in the Medical Association, whether or not they send in a review, or whether a representative of the surgeon will be called before the committee to review the views that may exist. I reiterate that I know I don't have an application for an answer from what? A senator, but because the senator is a member of the committee and has come up here for several answers, I don't know if I'm going to get the chance to respond. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir here, I'd like to put this question forward. Before going into the material or articles of the bill, I would like to comment on how this is handled in our neighboring countries. I've only been through the many discussions in Britain. It is far too bad to say that the bill is on page 30. 8 Chapter 3.3 other northern nations. With President's permission, I'm going to read a brief chapter from the bill. ▪ Other northern nations have not established specific legislation on changes in the sexual characteristics of children born with non-typical sexual traits, and there are differences between countries to the aim for such legislation. In Denmark there is a review of health care for individuals with atypical sex characteristics, while Denmark's Children's Association has also provided guidance on atypical sexual characteristics. The direction of the Finnish government is to strengthen the rights of children with atypical gender characteristics and forbid unnecessary surgery on the offspring's genitals because of their appearance. Government staff have had children's affairs with atypical gender characteristics for consideration. In Sweden, governments have introduced new clinical instructions for healthcare professionals on atypical sex characteristics. In view of how small and shallow the matter seems to be, how might we find ourselves here in a race? Though I'm probably ashamed of it, it's very brief that it smells like some virtue cop, to intend to first introduce a rule like this. There's no hurry. I think all members of the Parliament have the best interests of children and want their quality of life to be the best. The way to do this is not to take away children's right to enjoy the normal medicine of modern medicine. That can't be the goal. It can't be. The last thing I'm going to do before I go to the subject of the bill turns to the crowd. At the same time, I have been surprised to learn what the discussion has been about the number of people who fall under this definition, as vague as it is, and how little information is available about it. They're just not in the bill itself, and I've read that letter for a stick, and they don't include anyone in the committee opinion either. It was presented in a talk earlier today, and I give the speaker a part of the committee's opinion. paritaprevir Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, that this may be up to 1.7% of children born in Iceland. It comes from all sides to the available data, to form in the article by Dr. Leonards Sax, which deals with the number of people who fall under these definitions. I have it right here in English and the heading of this article is ▪How do you know it's an intersex?, or, in a very loose translation, how common is the Intersex definition? There the conclusion is, and this is not a result of loose air, but it appears to be an underlying study of this proportion being 0.018%. If we assume that there are 3 60,000 people living in Iceland, something like that, there are 0.018% more than 60 individuals. I think we should focus on making the most of these individuals, making their lives the best and best possible way of life, supporting what makes their lives better at any point but not beyond the scope of the presumption to plan to do everything for everyone and to end it is not to do anything for anyone who often wants to be. It is, in effect, unacceptable that the case is through 2nd. and that the difference between the magnitude of the case and the magnitude of the case is as large as the underlying issue. The difference between 0.018% and 1.7%, respectively. The head of the committee's opinion came into play earlier today, nearly a hundred times. We can't keep working things on those terms. V.E.G. President. I don't think there's anything else in this situation but calling the case in on committees between 2 and 3. Um., calling to the guests who have been mentioned here and who will definitely come up with further requests, and that's an invitation. It is absolutely unacceptable that the case is completed without forming the Medical Association, and this alleged review of those who seem to have been lost, and the surgeon comes to the table. A respectable president. Now, up to the flow and the context of the parts, I have two minutes left of my speaking lesson and my next schedule is to go to the subject of the bill, so I'm going to let myself say this good now, so that I'm not just starting at a few words, and I pray to the highest degree. President to put me back on the rosary. Then my next schedule is to go to the bill itself and to consider more parts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u79	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason here expressed concern over the treatment of the committee. That's what I'd like to say. A senator mentioned, on the one hand, the Medical Association of Iceland and the governor's office, the parties and others were sent a review request at the time, but they didn't see the grounds for sending in a review, and there is no doubt about it, as it were. A senator told me before if the Iceland Medical Association has sent a review. When you examine the Al Hallis website and look up the case, you can see the history and evidence of the case, including the following: Who received reports and who sent in reviews. So there is no doubt about it. [[Up front.]] As a result, treatment is very natural. I'd also like to mention that the Central Party, the Central Party Parliament, is a member of the Committee and has always been a member of the committee, and the members of the committee are free to ask for certain members to appear before and discuss with the committee. These people didn't come before the committee. So I ask. A member of the Parliament is whether the Central Party has promoted the committee's involvement with these members at a meeting of the Committee. It has also been noted in committees that experts in this field made specific comments to the bill as it was presented in 2019. Today, the bill is the product of much of our best specialists in this field, including a number of doctors. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'll review it better later, and this will also be discussed in the evidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u80	A respectable president. It wasn't in itself that I'm holding back. Senator. But I just reiterate what I said in my speech, that for us senators involved in the case now in 2 Corinthians. Um... we don't have access to the named as a dog. A senator points out that two doctors have been in. One of the committee's doctors shows up in a committee study with the motion, and that doctor, Dr. Ragnar Bjarnason, was in the group as I know, but it does not change the availability of our general senators, who do not have a seat in the head. The information or viewpoints mentioned are not relevant. There's nothing, there's no review, no text. The only text in this article is doubts about the rule I will enter in my second speech, which turns toward too short an outlet and the growth aberrations of your penis, ◯micropenis, to the point of the urinary tract. The emphasis seems to be on the fact that this special law, which I give myself, has been published by the doctor or the doctor. Then there's nothing left but the point of view. I'm afraid there's a lot of trouble with the children in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u81	A respectable president. On page 9, we learn what experts were in a organized group. There was a child surgeon, a child psychiatrist, a child psychologist, a representative of the Intersex Iceland Association, a representative of the Groups of '78, a sexist, a ethic, and two lawyers, one with expertise in child rights and the other in human rights. Then there were lawyers who served as prime minister with the group. I think I can assure you what. A senator and I, even though we are some remarkable and important groups and no doubt we are smart and smart in most things, or so, we had no reason to be part of this working group. However, it is up to us today based on points that these experts pointed to. And what's wrong. The senator's most concerned, I hear, is that this bill is dangerous to children, that children are not getting necessary medical care. I think I can calm down. A senator who is not. In the case of such cases, it is stated that if the abnormalities threaten the life and health of children, they will, of course, receive the necessary medical care. I think those who represent this Intersex group and the '78 Conspiracy have probably much more knowledge and understanding of what it's like to be born with atypical sexual trait than we're sitting here, unless perhaps one of us was born with atypical sexual traits. We do not know this because the greater number of languages has proved to be very secret and shameful. This bill may be a factor in discussing these matters and overcoming the shame and condemnation that this will bring with more tolerance and understanding. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I have to admit, though, that I will not calm down. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir suggest I'm not worried about this, she's gonna watch out for this. I think that's what we're talking about. I was misunderstood by a senator. My criticism all stands up on a dot despite the indentation of the dome. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir. My criticism is clear on the point where our senators' access to information and viewpoints published on medical grounds is very limited, simply because the bill is not addressed to the views given by physicians in this working group. It's just not at all. What's best shining through and what you're giving is that they're coming from the defenses that are still in there. Then comes the committee, and because I see that in this room there are at least two members at the moment, three with the highest. President, there is no evidence that the matter was examined in a way that would allow for the rest of us members of the Parliament, who do not have this accurate access to information or the commission to do so. The only thing that comes out of the committee party of the greater part is that it should be in total priority whether it is not proper to eliminate this special rule. That's the message. Another message, much less medical, is very small for us generals, who are not part of the committee, and none of us were on this committee. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u83	Mr. President. From the moment I gave this talk, we have continued to listen to endless phrases in the manner of orwellian tolerance and understanding and to live in harmony with our own characteristics and so on the streets, all in total opposition to the content of the bill, except in this respect, to form the truism from the beginning. paritaprevir Andri Thorsson's divinity on the importance of living according to her own characteristics. That's where it was. A senator's failure to cure a child because it would be forced to live according to its own characteristics, and it can be wondered whether it should be applied to other characteristics, the various traits that children may be born with. In fact, I only came to that point earlier because the argument support of the bill is all inferred that all inborn qualities are characteristics of the person who recognizes them and that they should live with them. It's not humane, it's a respectable president. This is not in harmony with science or medicine or the desire to improve the lives of children, which, of course, become adults. I've reached the 5th floor. The bill. It discusses plans to put the Children's Youth Department on this project and Article 6. In fact, it is about the same thing as in the 7th paragraph. We'll find out what's in return. A new committee is to take over, and it is to be characterized by more of the goals described in the bill by representatives of the groups who are fighting for it. But with President's permission, it's 7th paragraph. The bill, about 13. the case referred to: ▪ The Motion provides children less than 16 years of age who are born with atypical sex traits, and their caregivers, information, counseling and management according to individual needs and otherwise care for the responsibilities presented in Article 11. a. One should be used to identify clients with appropriate peer education by non-typical gender characteristics. Here we will consider some points that have been discussed in Britain recently after a black report on how these issues were carried out, stating that children are obtained from doctors, experts in dealing with physical disorders in many cases, groups with specific objectives on how to take action, potential medicine. This is particularly important in relation to the primary analysis of the bill of non-typical gender characteristics because, as we see in the bill itself, as we see in the opinion of the greater section of the committee and have heard of tonight's talks, the goal is to expand the vast definition of atypical sexual characteristics beyond those of any other part of the world, a hundred times the number of children who fall under it. Children born with diseases that could be cured, even relatively easily and with little pain, at an early age and improving the marvelous quality of life of their children, are now included in this category, where either they are prevented from being cured or sent into the system to speak to committees, to communicate with peers, as it is said, i.e. People from a very distinct group. It is a picture of boys born with too short urinary tracts, Mr. President, a condition known and known to be cured. Invested in time, they will not be seriously affected by boys, and in fact no one, by this disorder. But now it's time to grab in there. But thanks to doctors, one or two, who did this, a tiny window is kept open in handling such things as abnormal growth on a male limb that can also be treated relatively easily and improving their marvelous quality of life. In both cases, so I'm just going to talk straight, Mr. President, since we're in that place in the discussion, it's easier for people to go to the bathroom or to have sex. However, despite this special provision that we may be able to cope with this, in the bill we see the conclusion that this is not to be allowed, not even this experienced medical reaction, the cures that have returned improved the standard of living, improved life, for so many people. The committee makes it a major element in the pathetic majority of themes that need to be quick to consider whether to allow these cures. And who should appreciate it? Yes, the same people who made note that this was authorized over their heads. Then there is one another about the continued systems of these cases and the added challenge for parents who want to do what is best for their child. I'll wait on that coverage, see if there's any time left to go into it, but I'll step in on what I mentioned on the specifics that are still there, but I still have considerable limitations on meeting and helping children with a short urethral or abnormally small or no growth on a limb. That is what it says in Article 11. The bill, within three years of the validation of the ship of a task force, to revise the provision of experience and development of research and knowledge and best practice in the field of human rights. In fact, we receive a later report on the bill what is meant by the words of the best human rights project. In particular, they should be evaluated for 5 mg. 1 1. a, this is a short urethral problem, and if it should be removed. The Outfit team shall submit proposals to the minister. It was not clear enough in the opinion of the majority of the committee that claims that this need to be rushed and reached as early as from those who criticized it whether to cancel it. It's all in the same book learned, Mr. President, but it'll be first, I'm not saying it's interesting, but it's very peculiar when we get to the chapter on the occasion and the need for the law. There we get to know some things about phrases and theories, e.g. for a standard concept of male and female gender, there are two genders, which are consistent with this entirely out - of - date. It also says, by permission of the president: It should be noted that not all individuals born with atypical gender characteristics to the Intersex group, but there may be considerable variability in the sexual characteristics of people who meet the standards for two genders. Here again, these old standards are about two genders. This, however, is recognized and refers to what is being done here. A hundred times the group under here is being built. However, the traditional dual sex analysis is mentioned. It also discusses the term DSD, a well - known medical phenomenon that disseminates in the English of six dierents, but it can't be called a disorder of course, so it's renamed. But for what purpose? For the purpose that those born with a DSD, a disorder of six disorders, would not be healed. In my next talk, Mr. President, I will review international covenants and treats. It'll be very palatable, like the highest. I'm sure the president can imagine. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u84	The President reminds us that the matter is Icelandic. Once an English text is read, it should be translated.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u85	V.E.G. President. I must now admit that I have not studied this matter in particular. I don't sit on a universal and educational committee. I have been sitting and listening to this discussion. I've been trying to figure out the definition of the atypical sex characteristics of the bill, and I'm pretty much nothing. I'd love to ask you why. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, who has been able to study the matter very carefully, would he be able to tell me a little more clearly, in plain language, what atypical sexual traits are? Is this a biological disorder, which, in itself, is cured just as clearly as it is in what kind of child is, or is it unclear what kind of child is? Is this, then, some sort of a different problem than just other conditions we're dealing with? There are various biological problems that we make only a decision for our children to fix. Is this different, or is it just one of these conditions that we can fix or what exactly is this? Now it is known that we make all kinds of decisions for children with their well - being, and it is really our parents'job to do so. Is this something special, though, when it comes to genitals or urethras over your gums, spine, or anything? Well, maybe. A senator informed us about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u86	V.E.G. President. First, just a comment for the tip. A president of Icelandic, as this includes a question of why. paritaprevir Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson. It is not well - known to translate this term, a ◯d disorder of six devestment◯, an international concept, into English. In fact, it has been based on the variability of puberty, which my knowledge is not a direct translation, but even that is no longer appropriate, so I used the international or foreign expressions. But, hey. paritaprevir Brises Níelsson's Brynjar ask a basic question in this matter: What is atypical characteristic of gender? This bill goes on to expand the definition as much as possible, a hundred times the number that could fall under or about. Thus, this does not refer to what is now called an intersex or to children born with sexual symptoms that are unclear that the individual child is not completely clear, which will be about 0.018% of children. Instead, a definition that includes 1.7% of born children, including children born with all the urinary or genital dystocia, is defined. To answer the following question from what? A senator in this bill is in no way able to distinguish these from other birth defects except that the bill prevents healing of the urinary or genital disorders. However, the same logic should apply to all other birth problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u87	V.E.G. President. Then it is a very important milestone because there is one defect, one defect, one disorder, and some special treatment for it, not for others. I heard why. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson is talking about how we're like us. True, we are true, but it can have a profound effect on us if we have biological defects that can be fixed and that we do not correct. Then I suppose it's okay to say that this defect or this disorder, rather than the others, is quite classy. Then I ask: Why is that? Is this some politics that can significantly affect the well - being of children? Are we harming our children by doing this, perhaps a lot of children, if this defect or disorder is not fixed? Is that really the purpose of the bill because we are giving in to some political pressure on other things in connection with this? What do you think? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u88	Mr. President. It's not just a blind political bitch, it's really a religion. This is therefore especially associated with urinary or genital disorders. However, as a logical support of the bill, birth problems are part of a person's characteristics, and the individual must not be deprived of symptoms, even if the symptoms may be a problem for the individual before the time of life. But now I'll say what. A senator what may be the most insane of all in this context. In fact, problems that can lead to harassment must not be cured unless the child has grown up and asks for it. Problems that can lead to harassment are an important part of the child's symptoms because they can lead to harassment, that they cannot be cured. It's actually a crazy, respectable president. But this is described in the bill and indicates that it is not just blind politics but some sort of extreme religion. The fact that someone is being harassed by someone means that even if the person can be helped in a relatively simple way, it must not be done because things that can lead to harassment are protected from signs. That's why I say, a respectable president, this is an inhuman case. This is obviously not a matter that is not ready to be discussed in the Assembly Hall, which has not been discussed with experts in the area under which the matter is concerned. It is an extreme religion that is expected to introduce the Allied council here as a lesser discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u89	A respectable president. I'm going to use this second talk to introduce views that are directed to the bill and its paragraphs. Of course, it's perfectly clear, like a cot. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson came in early in a fine tour of the main objective of the bill, to the aim of the members of the committee. A top-of-the-art Board of Education seems to think that there's something completely different from what's actually being said in this bill. What you see is 1st pars. considered in context of all other issues related to the case, i.e. The articles of the bill, the report and the discussion of each article, that the definition of atypical gender characteristics is being expanded to the point where any inborn malformations associated with genitals fall below. It does not have anything to do with any idea of an intersex or a trans or such. It is just defined in a far greater way than the general population that falls under here, in a race to achieve it first by all the northern nations and by me, all the nations that we compare with each day. Of course, this requires poor treatment and with a goal that leads to limited availability of medical care for young children and children. I'm going to make this work for 1st. ... andgo straight to Section 4. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Children born with nontypical sexual traits have the right to physical immunity in relation to their gender characteristics and are entitled to the most perfect health care that is available at any given time. I think in the latter part of this sentence most senators, if not all, will agree. But what does that mean? This conflicts with what the bill is going on. It is designed to limit the availability of children to the necessary medical care. That's what the fourth chapter says. that children should have the right to the most advanced health care facilities available at any given time. It's not going to make a sound like that. That's for sure. Here we hear nothing but the underlying contents of the bill coming out. Then I want to go on with 4. of 2 mg. says, with permission of the president: The changes in gender characteristics of a child less than 16 years of age born with atypical gender characteristics should be performed only according to the child's will, as described above. 6 mg. However, if a child is unable to agree because of a young age or because of others unable to indicate his will, then it should be allowed to alter its persistent gender characteristics if medical causes require, after careful evaluation of the need for the change and its consequences to a shorter and longer period of time. Social, psychological, and physical reasons are not healthy. What? Perhaps it is proper to assume that the sentence is somewhat strange to refer to the child's young age, since at any rate the child is illegal at this age, but does he simply assume that psychosocial reasons are not considered healthy? There is no evidence in the Commission or in the Committee's opinion that emphasizes that this examination or approach is maintained. In it.is, the grammar web, is the term "psychology" defined by the president's permission: This refers to the factors needed to recognize and process feelings, to participate in social relationships, to organize, and to shape your life. Psychological factors include: Psychological factors, social factors, and self - control. When this definition is entered into this context, 2 mg is required. Section 4. It's kind of uncomfortable when you read through it. The only thing worse than the text of this article is the content. I'm going on with 4. Gr., but 3 mg. It ends on page 24. 2 of this sentence, with the permission of the president: ◯ Decisions according to this article, shall be guided by the child's interests. The point of this fine sentence is that during the decision-making process, the child and the guardian will be provided with advice and support from a team on babies born with atypical sexual traits. So it continues: It should be reasoned on the possibility of delaying permanent changes until the child can grant informed consent and respond to any other and less medical causes. [...] Decisions according to this article should be guided by the child's best interests. How can it be that making decisions with your child's interests is a matter of limiting your child's bioavailability to modern medicine? How can they fit this goal and build to allow a baby born with a short urethra to wait until it reaches adulthood to have that birth defect corrected when the operation is known and effective? It is clearly specified in the data I have considered that there are improvements to the procedure as early as possible and specifically indicated that the procedure, correction, is desirable before 18 months of age. How should the child have thought before 18 months of age if he wants this correction on the urinary tract too short or not? This is all nonsense. It's a matter of intervening. It's just gonna have to be done. This is not, as it says, to prepare decisions that should guide the child's interests. I want to go on with 4. g., which says at the end of the article, which will discuss a committee to evaluate these matters and basic decisions taken by the president's permission: The results of the Commission are based on a survey of the child's attitude toward change according to a procedure set out by the committee. If this is now to be applied to a child with a short urinary tract where the desired operation is to be performed before 18 months of age. How is this going to happen in the real world? How is this really going to happen? Will the committee with all its sensory experts and other experts meet with the infant? Is she going to tell the child, 16, 17 months old, to her meeting? Of course, that's not how it happens. This will be some kind of communication with parents, but at the same time, your parents are being cut off as far as they can go to ensure your child's best interests. That's a thing we shouldn't offer to leave us at the High Council. V.E.G. President. I have something left, though, and I wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u90	Mr. President. I'm just going to go back to my first talk about this big and big matter, and I didn't get everything done in my first talk. I'd like to say in the beginning, Mr. President, for those at home following this discussion here at the General Assembly, that there is a possibility that some people may not fully understand what this is all about. That's why I'm going to try to put it in a simple context so that the people understand. This is really the same as avoiding parents from vaccinating their children. It's simple. The parent's authority is being decided when a child is born with an atypical sexual trait, which is essentially just a birth defect on the genital organs. If a child is born with a genital organ that is not normal, so to speak, parents have decided that the child should have surgery, in consultation with specialists, to correct it. But with this bill, it is under ban that this is done unless the child is facing a life - threatening risk. That is why it is a matter of well - being and obligation to the child. If we take another example of a child born with a cut lip, it is such a typical face symptom, if we can say so, if we relate it to this. Those things are always fixed by surgeons and specialists. But what concerns me about this matter and I don't think it's much of a discussion here, Mr. President, is what happens if this sexual birth defect is not fixed. We have great technology today. In a few years, major progress has been made, so it is very easy to perform many of these operations. When carried out in young children, it is much easier than later in life, and making it easier for the surgeon to do so. But what I wanted to come into, Mr. President, is what I think has been far too little of a discussion here. It's that if a baby is born with a birth defect on the genitals and it's not fixed, I think it's almost certain that the defect will lead to harassment against the child, that's just the way it is. It's a hard world out there, and when it comes to bullying, those who are the people in it can be pretty cruel, unfortunately. In recent years, after the collapse of the year, there has been an increase in elementary schools. This is among the results of a high - school bullying study not long ago, and it shows that in the fifth to tenth grade, there were now an average of 6.2% in basic schools in Iceland, which was reported to be 4.8% in 2012, with 7.6% in the fall of 2007. Last year alone in Reykjavík was found to be about 5.5% but 6.9%, respectively, in 2007. What causes that? The 2008 crisis seems to have an effect. As the nation entered a crisis, schools were very aware of the possibility of harassment, and today they are truly in a financial crisis, and sadly studies indicate that they too can increase harassment. Hv. paritaprevir When Brynjar's Níelsson hit his head, he said that this is where we are dealing with a biological flaw that can be fixed, but we have decided not to fix it in this bill. Brynjar the son of Níelsson, goodly man. A senator is the only member of the Independence Party who has come and addressed this matter, and I am amazed that the Independence Party and the Front Party are behind this issue. The media have responded and shared in this discussion, but independence is not. They have not observed this discussion at the Assembly Hall, and I think it is worth considering that the independent authorities have allowed this matter all the way into the Assembly Hall. Indeed, they could have stopped it in the government and made sure that this case, soon to be legal, had not come here to the Assembly Hall. Unfortunately, we in the Middle East have been very concerned about this matter, and we have given some talks today to try to explain how bad this case is, how neglected it is, what information is missing in the bill. I've traced it here in particular that there are pure and direct modifications in the bill when it comes to how many children in Iceland are born with malformations of their genital organs, and you wonder if this bill is more justified by presenting numbers that are incompatible. As I mentioned in the previous talk, it is mentioned in the report of the group that worked this bill on about 68 children a year are born in Iceland with atypical gender characteristics. So this term is being extended so that it is not correct, as these figures are completely confused with what is, for example. correspondent in the United States All the studies I read around this case, from Harvard University and other highly respected medical journals, say it's one child of a Sikh 4,55,000 children. I saw one study that told me that there was one child in every 2,000, so it should be 1◯2 children in Iceland who are born with an atypical sexual traits, while those on this bill, the government, the administration groups, the left green, advance party, and the Independence Party, say there are 68 children. It just shows the work of this bill, that they're no better than this. So you ask yourself, " Am I trying to justify this matter rather by creating numbers that are not right? ' It's just simple, Mr. President. I haven't had time to review some of the articles of this bill, but at the end, I just want to come in on 4. g., referring to children'right to physical immunity in relation to their gender characteristics and their right to the best health care. That's right. The medical services available for this procedure are complete. But this beautiful description contradicts the main elements of this bill, which are denying these children to this perfect health - care organization when they are born. They have to wait until they can make a decision, and it can be a difficult year, very difficult, for those children at school when they look different from the other children when it comes to their genital organs and only a prescription for harassment that can have lasting, harmful, and serious effects on the individual. We in the Central Party don't want to do that, so we're against this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u91	President. This discussion has been very interesting today, and it has, in effect, come up with why this case should not be here for a release right now. It was advertised earlier in response to a fine senator. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, whether the Central Party should be represented in the General and Education Committee. The answer, yes, is the Central Party of the Committee on a DWC. The committee is now in the public address. And then we must tell each story the way it is. This weekend, after visiting various members of the company for this matter, one doctor appeared before the committee and the visit was completed, was announced to be taken from the committee. The person here asked if there could be no more doctors or health care professionals for the committee, and the answer was: No, we were there last year. After that discussion, the case was taken from the committee. It claims that one of the nine could resist it only if they did not participate in taking the matter out of the committee and resisting the fact that it was done. It has been found that this bill, which in itself is about medical things, is presented on a social basis. It has been reiterated here several times that in a diverse group of personnel who wrote the bill, there were child surgeons, pediatriccologists, and pediatric psychologists, that is correct, and then representatives of various organizations. It has also been said that this is why Iceland's Medical Association has not submitted a review. And you're absolutely right. Councilmen have said that it is not an individual or party to post a bill, especially if it has been planned before. But because this case was taken from the committee and the people here said that what he found had been on a schedule for a year, which may well be, but he wasn't on the committee then, you tend to resist. Therefore, Mr. President, I request that the bill be reassigned to the General and Education Committee between 2 and 3. to improve the lack of visitors from a health care professional who has been under treatment to date. Mr. President. A fine senator of the Cradle said earlier that it was as if the members of the Central Party had jumped out of a time machine, and it may well have been. As members of the Central Party, we are old - fashioned in that we like to do things well, so that we do not stumble to a lack of observation. I have to say for myself, Mr. President, that I respect this matter too much and the people it touches but I would like to accept it in my present suit, not to be taken into consideration. I can't deny that at this point, at the moment of the discussion, the thought comes back for about a year and a half, when this meeting was for the payment and discussion of an abortion bill called the bill on pregnancy break. The discussion that many women were in such a bad state did not consider their pregnancy and therefore had to go abroad to break up pregnancy had passed over the time it was possible to perform such an operation. After much remainingness, the number of these women who had needed this so - called service was found to have four or six women a year. We changed the laws of the land for all the majority of women, either for the sake of reason or for the fact that other women would flow into an abortion country. Why am I going back this time? Yes, it is because this has been discussed with us that there may be 60 children in Iceland who are born each year with birth defects that affect the genital organs and the urinary system. Have been led to this chance, including on behalf of the members of the Central Party, that if the definition was the same as, for example, West to America, these would be one to two children a year. I think, Mr. President, it's time to get it to the bottom of my mind, e.g. on committees between 2 and 3. Um... which number is correct. We're talking about one or two children a year, defined as being done. in the Americas, or are we talking about some 60 in the '70s children? It has also come to pass, and I'm going to agree that many of the words in this bill cannot be viewed except that parents are not entrusted with the welfare of their children in the material below, when it is in nearly 100% of the cases. Of course, there are people who don't give their parents authority and who don't usually take appropriate measures, but I can't say that more of their parents in Iceland are so eager that they don't have the care of their children that they can't make a decision for their young children at all, instead of having their children first impression on this birth defect for a considerable period of time and that they should have a part in it, still children, deciding what to do. Now, I'm going to make clear that I don't want my speech and media presentation drawn into some imaginary dislike of the Intersex people or people who have no clear sexuality or people who at any point wish to change their sex to the future. Far from it, Mr. President, far from it. So it would be possible, in itself, to get numbers of those who have been subjected to sexual correction in Iceland and to see whether the majority of the members of that party had so-called atypical sexual traits or if they were simply being treated, as if I had a feeling that in much more of the cases, individuals who simply experienced in the wrong body and thus went to sexual correction, which natural is just a normal thing when there is a condition. That is why I say again that I would like to have this matter discussed in the Committee between 2 and 3. Because I would very much like health care professionals, doctors who care for these children, both in original and later, to convince me so that I can convince others that we are doing the right thing by accepting this bill as it is available. I say again, Mr. President: Yes, I'm on this committee, but I had no idea that when all the fine organizations that were involved there had been a story that visitors had taken along with one doctor, they'd just had enough, and they wanted to rip the case out of the committee without anyone else coming to her, away from whether or not the same people had turned in a review. It does not matter in itself. It was told earlier that we senators were so cool and smart and all that - no, not so, Mr. President. Hence, we need sound guidance when such degrees of magnitude exist. We must have every doubt in our minds that we are doing the right thing and that is not appropriate for this bill in the case of the one being here. I don't think it's right that we're jumping to accept this bill without even giving it more careful attention. I say again: I am praying that the man with whom we have been with here today is drawn up as some dislike of the Intersex people or people with atypical sexual traits over their heads, not at all, Mr. President, not at all. I have to admit that I don't understand what this is all about. I don't quite understand. I don't understand the reasons why we don't take the time we need to settle this case, and I don't understand the urgency of the last section of the bill, that this law will be established already in force, that it will ruin the case in any way or the cause it will be protected if it isn't to be legal tomorrow or the other person, perhaps the first days or the last days of January. I don't understand the difference, i.e. If at that time we come to a deeper understanding of the matter and how it is involved, even making the changes needed to make it possible to accept it. I can't say, Mr. President, that wanting to do a good job in this seminar is something old-fashioned, tacky or prepacked. As soon as this discussion's over, we'll just run into the torso again, there's nothing wrong with that. But I say again: "Me and my friends, we don't apologize for wanting to do something about this seminar. It has happened before, Mr. President, recently, that after a few discussions that some called a filibuster, we were able to influence a certain subject for the better. I don't think that anyone would be more beautiful after that treatment than those who didn't discuss the discussion but who would have had to meet the highest conditions of that matter if it hadn't come up with the struggle that we middle-class people had to work hard and walk around making things so that it would have to be protected. The exact same attitude, Mr. President, is here today. We simply want to have evidence or comment, reviews, or information from more health care professionals who have developed this condition. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. I said earlier that I felt in this bill not only a desperate sense of distrust but also a considerable lack of trust with Icelandic parents. Someone may come and convince me that I'm wrong, although I can't quite see it right now, I don't think we're being careful about the rights of the people involved in this bill, i.e. Your children themselves, in the type they are now. As long as this question exists, there are two ways in which the bill cannot be arranged as it appears, and further information needs to be provided than it has been observed. Now I'll see what it is. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir is here to play. I'm so happy that she announced to me earlier and I've come here now and I've agreed to be on this committee, the General and Education Committee, and have explained in what manner this case was taken from a committee against my will. That in itself is fine, and I hope we can agree, Mr. President, that the case will be restored to the Committee between 2 and 3. .. so that we can continue to pay attention to it and work it out with the kindness and respect it deserves. I say again, it's a big case, it's necessary, but it's just not the right costume as it is now, and I need to be explained to myself and others why it's installed in this way. And with great respect for all the experts in the organization who conducted and the consultation group who wrote this bill, I'm going to say again: two doctors, one child psychologist in this group of twelve or fifteen or what it was, and one of these health professionals came before the committees while the one sitting here -- in my opinion it's just not enough, as I have observed in my case. Mr. President. I'm going to renew the application of the case to the Committee between 2 and 3. Around., announced the company I will ask for, a list of doctors and health care professionals, to explain to me and to others why we should accept this bill as it seems now or what adjustments are needed to make it so that we are content to do it. I have testified, Mr. President, that we have been cast here before, and we do not have to make it a custom. Let's try.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u92	Mr. President. I've arrived at chapter 2.2 of this bill on the recommendation of the International and Human Rights Institutes on the rights of the Intersex people and people with atypical gender characteristics. This chapter contains various documents and conclusions from the other organization. The chapter is very interesting and illustrate how the participation in international work in Iceland sometimes is deliberately misapplied. In fact, I think this chapter would be very interesting in political science to examine just that fact. At the beginning of this chapter, the president's permission says: In recent years various international and human rights agencies have encouraged countries to establish laws or forbid unnecessary treatments on individuals with atypical gender characteristics to form irreversible surgery and sterilization without an informed consent. Mr. President. On the contrary, the bill does not suggest sterilization. The failure of children to receive necessary medical care at the time most appropriate to do so may, in many cases, lead to infertility, in effect, to the failure of more children to enjoy fertility. Later, says: Such medical treatments are often carried out without the child's informed consent, and often without any medical grounds requiring prejudice, surreal ideas, etc. Any unnecessary medical treatment without informed consent includes violations against the individual rights of the child and may result in serious negative consequences. There is another reference to anything other than the subject of the bill. One must ask: What about when children are not healed? Is that not a violation of their human rights? You'd think so. The next reference is to a United Nations and European Council Convention on the prohibition of torture, Mr. President. You must ask: Is putting this into the bill and putting it in context of the fact that there will be significant restrictions on it, and even a prohibition against the healing of children, as has been done for years and decades? And that's how it goes. I don't suppose I have time, Mr. President, to read all the attempts here to reinvent and return from international treaties and international resolutions. However, there is a passage in this relatively long chapter that repeatedly phrases are taken from such conclusions and put in a completely new context. It is reserved for the European Council to have spoken against normalising treatment, i.e. for treating children who establish their disease at an even greater than or equal to that of 2 year old, i.e. Icelandic to normal or traditional. Before I say this good of this chapter, which, as I mentioned, is too long to pass through all the misgirls, I want to mention that in the bill, it is referred to the UN Committee: It is based on the right to health and health care as well as on the rights of children under the United Nations Convention on Economic, Social, and cultural rights. I draw special attention to the highest. A president of the words ◯ Social rights, for the bill repeatedly states that social reasons do not justify the healing of children. Nevertheless, they allow themselves to be referred to a social rights contract. The next chapter will consider the purpose of the law, and there are, of course, many more things than I have time to discuss even in a few more talks, but I will try to do this as best in the next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u93	A respectable president. I would like to attend this speech briefly to the committee opinion of most of the General and Education Committee. There are two things I find especially critical of. This is first of all the Commission's discussion of the so - called medical principle, which says, by permission of a president: ▪ For the Committee, serious comments were made to the Special Order. It leads to the failure of two groups of children in particular to a legal protection and to the role of discrimination. So the committee was encouraged to suggest that the arrangement be removed. Go on, with President's permission: There is currently a difference of opinion about the above-mentioned treatments on which the rule of the medicinal product (s). - It is a short urethral and, on the other hand, a growth abnormality of the penis. So the more part feels that the discussion is necessary and that the arrangements will be reviewed, as suggested in Article 11. The bill.How's it going? That's what I like about it. I don't think it's a credit to the General and Education Committee. There is no reason to flaunt it here, let alone the matter, to review this special rule with the intention of drawing it back from some persecution and predestination. It's a very bad message, and I just want to give a damn that they're sent out from here. The other thing I'd like to discuss is the motion that says, by permission of a president: ▪ The task force gives proposals to a minister as soon as possible after he or she takes up the job. So it is the task force to begin working with the reference to Article 11. The bill. Why, on the other hand, should the task force come to a conclusion as soon as possible after starting its assignment? Is it not reasonable to conclude that the work force will make a suggestion when there is a bottom line for that review? This rush cannot improve, and it is certainly not healthy. This is what I wanted to say at this point on a committee opinion with a change in motion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u94	Mr. President. I had come to the Hall of the Law. There, various grasses, which do not have time to review as if it were normal in such a big matter. It is, in fact, there. Try to put this matter in context of the prohibition against discrimination and internationally acceptable human rights, recognized by Iceland's Constitution. Is it discrimination, Mr. President, that children cannot be cured with certain diseases? Yes, that's discrimination. It is discrimination if children with certain types of congenital disease should not be healed, but others can, and normal. However, taking out a specific type of disorder if they are associated with the urinary or genital organs includes discrimination. This is once more often a total paradox, an outback at best. Here, the importance of identifying atypical sex characteristics that are used in order to ensure a wide range of protection from children when there is a real effect, many more children fall within the group that does not receive essential health care and which, as a result, enjoys a measure of quality of life. The next article will discuss the rights of patients, which are of utmost interest in the context of the entire bill. It suggests that these laws assume that patients have the right to the most qualified medical care available. That's what they say in the bill. Furthermore, a patient has the right to a service based on his condition and prospects at any given time and the best knowledge. But children are being warned about this service. An interesting explanation of how these rights of patients reach children is given, which emphasizes that children are not in a position to defend their right to the law, so parents have a special role in this context. In fact, there is a special chapter, VI. As noted in chapter 1, there are special guidelines for sick children and children who are caregivers. 25. The law and the show. It makes clear that it is not only the role of parents in ensuring the health of their children and that they receive best health care but also the refusal of a child's parents to accept such treatment, a treatment that may help the child, can be interrupted. But with this bill, it is turned to the head, like so many other things, and parents refrain from doing what is most beneficial to the child. The chapter on the patient's rights is long - lasting, with other factors that should be considered in a discussion about the bill, but the emphasis is that children should be protected by the adults in contrast with what the bill indicates. Next, we can compare with other northern nations that report that Iceland is the longest, even the whole of northern countries, in these products. Is it interesting to put it in the context of various articles of this bill, which, in fact, recognizes that it is not fully understood what this will do, and we need to see. Iceland is to become an experimental community in these substances without other countries deciding to go the same way. The contents of the constitution will then be discussed. There, as in international agreements, attempts to do so are completely turned upside down and far - reaching, to form by using laws that involve privacy and human rights, the rights of individuals to take children's rights for medical purposes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u95	A respectable president. I want this speech to warn you, because this matter is about medicine and medical procedures on children with atypical gender characteristics, that people approach the subject on the basis of sociology or psychology. They certainly apply in this environment but not in this regard, not at the time of the decision to treat a child with atypical sexual traits. The matter has now been requested to be passed on to the committee between the 2nd and 3rd. And I want to encourage you. Congress members of the General and Education Committee to highlight the medical factors. This will most likely lead to the best interests of the children involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u96	Mr. President. I have not yet started with the most extensive chapter of the bill, which deals with its unique articles. The most important reason to make a comment is in that chapter, often being puzzled. As I mentioned in my first speech, it is really remarkable that the Ministry of Presidency has sent a bill like a bill, but I understand that the Council's administration is eager to complete a matter as soon as possible and as little as possible to discuss this matter. So I'll try to help you in this matter, even though it does not mean that this case is the subject of the matter, for we have seen that this matter is the nature of the members of the board that most of them seem to want to avoid discussion about it. Not one senator of the Theocratic Ministry School or Independence Party has held a talk in this case here in the 2nd issue. Not alone. Yet, these are the groups that present the case along with the left movement ◯ green supply. But when you study the chapter on some of the articles on the bill, you will see even more clearly what is behind each article, and everything is in the same book. This is not based on medical science, it is not based on what is best for the child, it is based on the introduction of certain extreme policies in which all the birth problems of children associated with urea and genitals are placed in the same group, except for two factors, too short of urethra, or for the growth of male members, but the committee has made it quite clear that windows for such treatment will probably be closed earlier and in the majority of the terms, which I will probably not have time to go over, although there would have been a full motive, the need to mention that the first decision will be made to eliminate these laws from these separately, which may improve many children's quality of life. Who should appreciate this? Yes, it is those who did not wish to have the authority to be there during a discussion with the committee and the available comments. The chapter on some of the articles in the bill shows. This sentence, by permission of the President: ▪ The diagnosis is not really medical, but it is based on a largely social phenomenon of gender. More interesting phrases appear there, they actually appear in rows, including page 4 of this magazine. which says, by permission of the President: The directive includes the prohibition against action that has the sole purpose of determining the characteristics of a child as either a male or a female. If a baby is obviously born to a female or a male with any defect or condition that can be corrected, it must not be done, as the child is further pushed toward belonging to either sex. So says health issues: The bill was reviewed as to whether these sources were to be limited to permanent changes in non-typical sex characteristics without a child's consent to ◆ health reasons. However, if such a thing was dangerous, the goal of the bill is not to limit children's rights to health care in any way. This text, especially in view of the leading element, is a paradox but I suppose this is the result of the medical indications involved and their position is described on the following pages in which men try their best to explain the importance of children still having a chance for certain procedures, i.e. the possibility that the Committee's messages tell us to withdraw. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u97	A respectable president. I would like to use this talk to direct it to the question. The General and Education Committee to consider a case that was judged in London, Britain, December 1st. and discussed just the views that may be related to matters that are anticipated to arise because of the present bill. It's a big issue in the news over the last two weeks. I think it would be wise to do that. The General and Education Committee called to the lawyers, a specialist on these matters, so that the Commission is fully informed about the views that might arise under test. It's stated in the bill, I think I'm taking it right, that there's no case at the Committee that is now planned to cancel with this bill and new arrival. I don't think any problem has happened to her since the law was approved last year. So I think it's necessary. The General and Education Committee calls a specialised lawyer who reviews the legal matters that may still exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u98	I suppose the highest. The president would like to finish this discussion, and he'd like the rest of her to have less and less. But I can't pass by at the end of this call me only what I took a short time back to the moment that is the doctor's attempt to argue that at least I should be allowed to do so. two types of action. However, there are very significant conditions for any of these activities. There are operations due to the urinary tract too short and the boy's limb that does not grow properly. The doctors explain that in both cases timely intervention can be cured and, therefore, greatly improve the lives of the children. The effects of not healing are also explained to the children. I'm going to save the highest. Although perhaps there was good reason for this, a president was moved to do so. All of this is about to explain that you are not responding to at least These two factors will have a major impact on children physically and, most likely, on their lives as well. Instead of being guided by the way that happens, let me mention just the objection to allowing this to happen. In an explanation, the legal articles say, by permission of a president: The highest standards that support the use of a rule of action due to a short urethral are to form the specificity of this gender symptom. Too short the urinary tract falls under the definition of the bill of atypical gender characteristics. It says, "Inex people's... gender characteristics are between us, the standard ideas of male and female beings. But in the event of a short urethral, it does not have a characteristic between us standard ideas, so I use the wording of the bill on males and females. It is about curing a health problem that is well - cured and that is of vital importance to the child. It is stated that the cure for this point is that children are being separated by atypical sex traits in two. However, this is due only to the suggestion that atypical sexual symptoms are all urinary or genital disorders in the paediatric population. In fact, there is a red thread in this bill that to achieve the political objective of sex being a social phenomenon, as it was said here somewhere, actions that include major cures for children due to disorders related to the genitals and the urinary system. Of course, these are extremes, Mr. President, and the extremes shine through this bill. It's not science, it's not cure - based, it's not on the right of parents to do what's best for the baby, it's the idea of achieving some other goal, a goal that, taking care of it, biting children, and being able to take on a lot of children. This is widely defined. It is said that 1.7% of children born in Iceland will agree with this. This will mean that parents of children will go abroad for a cure for their children, parents who can afford it. Other children will suffer, even for the fact that this bill has penetrated. This bill is a disgrace to this government. It's a disgrace that she tried to slip it through here without a discussion. Clearly, the bill wasn't ready. This had not been properly discussed by a committee of people who know best, know the field of medicine, and science. Sadly, this illustrates what you have learned from this government. This is all a package, all phrases and beautiful words, but when you consider the contents, it leads to a counter-referred conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u99	A respectable president. I now present a committee opinion with a change in plans from the General and Education Committee. The committee received a single review from the Work Office of Business and then received the commission, I'm not going to read it, it's stated in committees, some individuals, and the authorities at their meetings to discuss the matter further. The point is, the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs wrote the bill as a request and cooperation with the National Book of Iceland. The bill's report gives rise to the case, including the case. until a relative dose is from a new overall registry of individuals, No. 140/209, but at the hearing of the law, it was found that a correction had been made under the registration of still-borns. Then Iceland's National Constitution has had to prioritise projects for the upcoming national registry, where a number of new legislation has called for such changes. As a result, the changes in the protocols to individual registrations have been delayed. The evaluation of the impact of the bill shows that it will not affect the quality of the state funds and that it will allow for employment and public institutions to adapt to the proposed changes to the Social Services and the separation of social identification and the standard landmarks. At that time, the bill will make it easier for governments to control the number of children who pretend at the time of the 22nd week of pregnancy and the parents'rights in this context. In short, that is what appears in the bill itself. A respectable president. So I turned to the committee's opinion itself, the committee was pointed out, following a discussion of the bill as it comes from the Ministry, that it would be preferable to also publish a system identification number in the case of abortion after 18 weeks of pregnancy, as parents also have the right to birthworm or birth strength, as measured by the law on maternity and parentorofum, No. 95/2000. In the treatment of the case, it has been observed that children born at birth after the 22nd week of pregnancy have been enrolled in an outdoor registry, now called a social security index, where it would be necessary to register children with a social security number for a surgeon's birth record. This registry will take into account international definitions. However, government agencies have not called upon to report abortion after the 18th week of pregnancy and have not been used to report it to Iceland's National Registry. The nomineers saw the need to consider this point further, and they sent a message to forget, not to forget, that is, a supportive society of parents who have lost children or fetuses. As suggested by babies born dead after 22 weeks of pregnancy, the Society underlined the opinion that Iceland's National Registry would be allowed to publish systems of abortion after 18 weeks of pregnancy. In both cases parents gain the right to birthworm and birth power, so they go through the same procedure in applying those rights. Then it is expected that the version of the system identification will make it easier for parents to attend these rights, but today parents need to seek proof from the Land Hospital for them. This is where we're looking into context and harmony with other existing laws, that this calls for. The committee understood that the version of the system identification could include recognition for the parents in this situation and that other reasons besides the need for the system would be justified in the implementation of system identification numbers in the case of abortion after 18 weeks of pregnancy. I'm not going to read all of this, but I'd still like to say that the Committee says, by permission of the president: Therefore, in agreement with the Department of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Transport is encouraged to take this issue further into consideration and on a larger context, and whether there is a basis for the same procedure in both cases, as well as the publication of a system identification to help parents attend the rights given to them under the law on parental and observation. This is a very important thing, but I'm not gonna keep this any further, Madam President. It is suggested that the values of the law remain unchanged and take effect on January 1, 2021, and the adjustment is, in effect, a minor word change. Under the heading, Þorsteinn Magnússon, chairman of the Committee, Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir Árnadóttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Birggis Sæmundsson of Ármannsson, Þóra Örjörður Ájörður Sigur Gunnundsdótir, Þríldur Sóðmundsson, and Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u100	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. It's just a short inquiry, and I'd like to make it clear first that I'm celebrating this case. But I'd like to get a second opinion. A senator in a case related to this. Here we go. A member of the council suggests that the death - dealing parents are entitled to a maternity clinic. That's just the best part. Now, though, a mother giving birth to her child in the maternity ward is not entitled to delivery. So I'll repeat this for what's happened. Senator: A mother giving birth to her child in the maternity ward is not entitled to maternity. Is it not necessary to change the law so that the parents, the mother in this case, have the right to have one, two, three months in a maternity room, as mentioned in this case with stillborn babies, etc.? Giving of her child brings natural stress to a woman, and she may even need psychological help. This is physical, physical, and spiritual pressures. Is it not reasonable that a person should then have the right to a maternity leave in the same way that most others would?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u101	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson answers. He wondered whether a woman who gives birth to a baby and gives it as a adoption should not be entitled to maternity. First of all, I'd like to say that there's a whole different matter. I still understand the connection. A senator and why he makes this happen. I'd like to answer that. So now there's a maternity law in review, and I assume it's part of that review.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u102	Madam President. Thank you. A senator and thank you for the indication that the law is being revised. I think it's very important to be reviewed. There are not many women in Iceland who give birth to their child, but there are several cases each year. I think it's perfectly normal and reasonable for these women to get their birthworm because, as I specifically mentioned earlier, they may have to seek help, they may be from work, and things that have to do with this big decision in their lives and the natural birth. So I'd like to encourage them. A senator to join me in seeing that this is going to be seriously examined and hopefully become a reality sooner than later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u103	Madam President. Yes, but we may still need to consider one important point, i.e. That a baby's birth will naturally be thought of primarily, that he enjoys association with his parents, and that it would be necessary to be connected in the original language. Without being an expert in the law of maternity, I want to review my thoughts on this subject. If a woman is ill after birth, and she is unable to work, I assume she will seek medical advice and be allowed to suffer from illness if her birth is accompanied by serious medical conditions and other things so that the person is not able to work. The birthworm is different in itself. In the past few years, there has been a lot of work to be done, in reviewing a law on maternity, and the subject will be discussed in the following article at the General Assembly. I assume we what. The senator will participate in that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u104	A respectable president. I recommend here to the Committee's list of changes in bill proposals to legalize the laws of fair compensation for crimes in institutions or households under law No. 26/2007. The committee discussed the matter and arranged for a number of people to meet with him, with councils, Children's Protection Agency, the Children's Agent, the Council of the Northern States, who have taken care of these matters, and with so many others. This bill suggests that the order of committees to investigate the paediatric ecology and treatment systems, No. 26/2007, will be removed. In this context, the law of No. 47/2010, fair compensation for errors in institutions or homes under law No. 26/2007, so that fairness improvements can be made in more precise cases without a report under law No. 26/2007 or other report is available, thereby simplifying the improvement. The bill suggests that a contact of the strains for disabled children should guide former inmates to the resources that countries and rural groups offer, cr. y-all 8. The bill. The Committee concluded that there is good reason to consider whether the contacts will be assigned a greater role so that those in question will not only be provided with counselling on available support options but also help with their resources. The Commission points out that its own cost will not be the case if the contact is assigned a role far more extensive than the bill indicates. The role of contacts on the basis of the above laws is limited to the resources required by the law, i.e. The payment of fairness benefits, and it cannot be seen that the more extensive roles of a contact will be clearly compared to the purpose of the law. The Commission therefore aims at the Ministry of Justice, in collaboration with the Department of Social Affairs, to examine further whether there is any reason to assign contact projects other than those related to fair request applications as well as to whether such projects are better at home in the Department of Social Affairs, and whether there is even a procedure now, cr. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. 88/2011. The handling of the matter called attention to a group of children saved by the government, i.e. child welfare, private homes. It is suggested that the number of children has been set aside by governments in a private home, both because of disability and other circumstances, and as a result of the importance of providing them with supplies in such homes, so that the government can create an area where they can distinguish between their growth and the circumstances in which they live. The committee points out that the above cases fall outside the content of this bill. Previously, it has been criticized that a survey in these private homes has not been conducted. In a report on the implementation of fair compensation based on law No. 47/2010 reports that such a survey would be a major concern. These are events that took place decades ago and there are few reports, even many of the dead. However, the committee considers it important that further discussions be made about saving children in private homes and whether or not these events could be determined, especially since the separation between children in a private home through child protection committees and those who were there without the protection of the child - welfare authorities may not always be clear. In addition, data are not always available, including since private homes were not obliged to register or save documents and return them to Iceland's National Archives. The budget has now provided a sum of money that is designed to start working on this case as soon as possible. The committee suggests changes in word and language, which are for explanation and correction, but they do not alter in themselves the content of the bill, and the committee suggests that this bill will be agreed with these changes. Under these words, President Páll Magnússon, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir Thorsson, Birgir the Ármannsson, Shilg Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson Örán Gjörnótir, Þóldur Gunnundsson, Þríldur Ævarsdóttir Avjörnótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u105	Madam President. Of course, I rejoice over the work here has been done over the past few years with the large group that was saved in the institutions of the State so long ago. It has been found that much was done there, for which the government is really responsible. Of course, some of this matter is being resolved with these laws. What I have already pointed out, and the committee is actually an understatement in the committee opinion. Much of these are children arranged in a private home, perhaps by public sources, but not entirely by child - welfare committees. Especially, Madam President, is this being discussed by the committee in the discussion of the matter when the bill was first discussed, including. by my tip, and not just me, but others. As indicated in the opinion of the committee, it is the willingness of the committee to consider this matter as well, and I agree wholeheartedly with it. When the reviews that came to the Committee for the bill are considered, it also goes by the managers, I just think everyone. The Children's Protection Agency gave me a review, and, with the permission of President Mrs. President, I'm going to read from that review in this regard: In the opinion of the agency, it is essential that the group of individuals saved by the government, i.e. Children's welfare authorities, in private homes of children, receive the same opportunities as those of other children who were saved in public institutions to express themselves in their homes where they were ordered on [...] it also states that some disabled children were saved in private homes for a long or short time. Realizing that a number of children were taken into account by the government at a private home, the story says that this also applies to children who were saved because of their disability. With reference to this, the agency considers it important that a group of children saved from public contacts in private homes, both because of disability and other circumstances, are also allowed to make up their living in such homes in a way that allows publicisation to exist where they can report their growth and circumstances in designated homes, as well as those who were saved as children have been enabled. - That's what we're going to do here. So the Children's Protection Agency agrees with this, pointing this out. Then comes a review of a child's agent. I'm going to read a little chapter of that, with President's permission: The purpose of this type of improvement is twofold. On one hand, it is a social arrangement that has the intent to reveal and recognize that disabled children have been subjected to systematic violence in the public setting, so that they can learn from it, and prevent similar situations from returning. However, efforts are being made to improve the person involved, the enormous damage they suffered, because the government failed them and failed to fulfill its obligation to provide disabled children with the right to care for and protect them. After I have read these two reviews, Madam President, I am even harder on that position - and the committee, of course, gives up the ball in its members - that we must complete this case so that in any case, all the children to whom the government comes in part, as we do on this bill and also on the children to whom the government has arranged a second and, in the case I'm talking about, into a private home. In this article, the separation is often not very clear. That may well be true. The committee also explains that these have become old cases, individuals have been dead, not related, and not restricted to information or reports. There are therefore many lions on the road. Rather, Madam President, we are in a hurry to begin this task. I would like to persuade us senators to complete this case because the word that is presented in parentheses with this change of law, i.e. final resolution, not applicable. It doesn't mean that because there's a lot of things going on, as I've pointed to and done with 1st. The point. I'm also going to point to a third review that indicates that things are going on, not just what I'm talking about, but other things. It's a story from the Viðar of Eggertsson. I'm going to read it a little, but Viðar's getting attention to her crib at the Panorama. Now I have not examined her exactly what she is, whether she has been fired by the official, how she was fired, or when. He says it was in the middle of the 20th century. I'm just going to read about the treatment of these infants he describes in his review. They were very young children. He says, with President's permission: ▪ Young children could not be touched. Do not pick them up unless they are necessary. They were kept in their beds during the 24 hours of the day. The rooms had no other place than their beds. Nothing that inspired their senses, not their colors, not their pictures, not their toys. Parents may visit once a week for a brief period of time. However, they were not to touch their children, not come into their rooms. They stand outside the house, lie down on the windows, hoping to spot their children and reach out to any eye contact that could not always work, because the children usually did not know these strange people, who suffered in any weather and looked on them in despair. So there are some things left, Madam President. I just want to encourage us senators to stand up so that this will be done all the way. The government must recognize, study and inform and then endeavor to improve as much as it can have done by doing so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u106	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to legalize the law of No. 13/1984 on the front of the defendants and other criminal services (active and coordinated treatments). The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Bryndís Helgadóttir, Ragna Bjarnadóttir and Hildur Sunna Pálmadóttir from the Ministry of Justice and Gunnarsson Magnús of the State Attorney General. The committee didn't get any reviews on the case. The bill suggests changes in criminal exposés and other criminal assistance laws, No. 13/1984 is aimed at renovating the laws of the laity by the defendants in accordance with comparable laws on the handling of criminal charges, No. 88/2008, and making a career a court order to and from foreign countries more efficient. The majority consider it to improve the development of the court request to be simplified and to be in harmony with the modern prosecution's modern order. In this context, the greater part encourages the Ministry of Justice to see if there is a basis for reviewing the overall legal case, including whether or not to negotiate with other countries for expeditation or other criminal assistance in order to speed up the treatment and contribute to the principle of criminal justice on the speed of court treatment. A greater portion suggests a few changes in wording that are for correction and correction but is not intended to influence the subject of the bill. That's when the rest adds up to section four. the bill will be removed, as its contents can already be found in that law, as 2 mgr. 1st par. The law. According to this, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following change: 1st We're on 1st. a new joint will be added, as follows: Instead of the word'supervised "temporaneous time' to the 3rd Amendment of 2 mg. Section 15. The law comes with... guard time. 2. Subject reports a-parts 3. put it this way: Requesting to do so 2 mg. and 2 additional books on the European Parliament's contract from April 20, 1959, on mutual legal support from November 8, 2001, shall be sent to the district attorney. If there is no agreement with the state on expeditation and other criminal assistance, the request should be submitted to the Ministry. The request should include information on the type and location of the fractures and the date and time of the event. 3. Instead of the words, the study's gonna have to be in 1st paragraph b-joins 3. when co-administered: an examination has been performed. 4. Section 4. ... goout. 5. The bill's headline is as follows: Cells to legalize the law of the laity and other criminal aid, No. 13/1984 (bolus therapy). Under the committee, the writer listed here, Páll Magnússon, the wonder of Þóra Árnadóttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir the Ármannsson, Silja Dögg Gurnar's Gunnarsdóttir, Steinunn Tóri, Þólár Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunundóttir, and Þorsteinn Sæmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u107	Madam President. We are now dealing with a change in artists'awards law, but as everyone knows, we have had a major impact on all of us, our entire career, and especially on the career opportunities of independent artistic workers. When the ban was set in March The number of them became job and jobless and, in fact, we still don't know how that case develops, so this group has been almost without projects for months, many of them at all. In Icelandic society, the ability of artists to earn money in arts and cultures is different, and according to a survey conducted by the League of Colleges within BHM memberships in art and cultural sectors, there has been a significant increase in unemployment within those groups. These data are available, and in view of this, it is important to increase the number of employees in the profession so that more artists will be given the opportunity to work on their arts for the next few years. On January 1, 2021, the law is suggested to gain an value. A global and educational committee has discussed in detail the contribution of a bill to the Supreme Court. Secretary of education and culture. Most of the committee is now listed by the Committee and has a long list of guests to appear before the committee. I'm not going to do to those who are paying attention to reading all of this up, but the evidence is on the council site, if you want to find out more. However, the committee received some reports of individuals as well as the association and relationships of those who work in this sector. The commission says, with permission of the president: A bill for budgeting for 2021 (Secondness, J. 1) is expected to contribute 225 million. K. temporarily in an artist's pay fund, in view of the effects of a pandemic crown virus on independent artists. The bill suggests we have an artist's wage, No. 57/2009, there is a provision for temporary expansion of the total of 2021 jobs between the 1,600 monthly rates of 2,150. It is suggested that the proportion of labour exchanges in 2021 take into account the arts that have been won out in the pandemic in 2020. This will result in the largest increase in the number of jobs and the support of local artists and musicians, while other arts also increase. In the treatment of the case, there was a view that there is good reason to increase the number of long - term jobs and to strengthen and to plan for equal increases over 2021/2025 and that the monthly wage will be up to 2,700. Commenting on this, it was noted that at the rate of work exchange by 2021, all arts, such as the year 2021, were not looked forward to, for example. the position of designers and architects. In view of the greater part, it is both urgent and timely for a review of the artist's wage laws, especially by artistic complex and varied labour environment, the increase in the number of salary applications that have taken place in the past few years as well as the share of arts. There is evidence that the Ministry of Education and Culture is talking about this review and that the greater part of it is important that the viewpoints observed during the treatment of the case will also be considered more closely in that field. In view of this, the greater part feels that it is at this time desirable to respond to the artistic situation and to the damage done to the pandemic season by temporary increase in labour pay for 2021, while encouraging the Ministry to complete the required legal review as soon as possible. The majority suggest that the bill be passed on as it should. Under this reference work, the above - mentioned publication appears, ostensibly. The head of the committee, Páll Magnússon, and why. paritaprevir Guðmundur Gunnlaugsdóttir Thorsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir the son of Ármannsson, Steinunn Þóra's Sigríður, Þorbjörg Signur Gunnlóttir, and Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Hevardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u108	President. I'm just going to come up here and celebrate this case, and I'm happy that this important subject is being given the attention of a pandemic. It has not always been possible for art and art to receive attention during difficult times, even in good times, so it is enjoyable and to imitate. Similarly, I rejoice to hear that in progress there is a complete review of this series of languages. Art is essential to healthy democracy. This has been a very difficult time for artists, artists, and especially musicians, who are now unable to do what they want and need. Art is research. It's also basic work and innovation. In fact, artist's salary is false because an artist's salary needs to meet certain requirements. They are usually applied for strength to specific projects, and people compete with many others for these strengths. It's not that people just walk off the street and put their fist on the table and ask to get an artist's salary, as you've sometimes been listening to the discussion about it. But it's a pleasure, as we used to say it is going on. I'd like to rename an artist's salary, like, what. paritaprevir My associate, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, has suggested, a innovation. Artists' prizes are innovations. Finally, I would like to point out that the truth is obtained through a variety of conflicting ideas, viewpoints, and experiments, and thus we study the existence and community and the times we live each time. This is where art life takes its lead and is often preceded by changes in thinking, reacts after difficult times, after war, and is the leading force in human communities. Harold Pinter, who received a Nobel Prize for dramat writing, said in his Nobel Prize speech: There is no clear difference between what is real and what is not real. It's not between what's true and what's not. I believe that those words are true and still relevant in the field of art research. As a playwright, I keep those words, but as a citizen, I can't. As a citizen, I am compelled to ask: What is true? What Is False? I'm celebrating this case over and over, and I'd like to encourage the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture continues to do a good job like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u109	Madam President. I recommend the Committee on bill to legalize various taxes and fees, insurance bills, etc., for the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee. As mentioned in the opinion of the committee, the committee was contacted by a representative. from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Allied Union of Iceland, the European Union of Icelandic rural society, the League of Police Forcers, the Tax, the BSRB, and the Icelandic Professional Society. The bill has to do with changes in tax and tax laws, including change the insurance bill, i.e. temporary reductions, changes in income tax, product charge, and automobile charge, as well as changes and coordinations due to changes in other laws. As noted in a committee study, the European Union sent a statement to a local community requesting that rural communities be secured electronic access to stress files. There are personal details about individuals and legislators and the financial resources of those who are protected in 117. law on income taxes and, after some cases, the law on personal protection and the processing of personal information, No. 90/2018. The majority of the population thinks it's necessary for rural society to be able to monitor their income stocks. However, the interests of taxes and especially individuals must be taken care that the media will not go beyond what needs to be done. The greater part is hard to see that the interests of rural society of permanent public information on fiscal material to rural society can outweigh the interests of those to whom the data are concerned. According to the Committee's review, the tax can distribute monthly and freeness of charge to the rural community information on the common standards by analysing down to the range of sectors that will be implemented with special needs of rural partners in mind. The majority feel that such communication is more likely to reach the above targets without a burdensome way of managing the interests of taxes. With law No. 37/2020 was added a law on income tax laws for temporary use of the tax, despite the terms 1 mg. 98. .., no obligation to submit a list of pressures for each unit following the pressures of taxpayers in 2020 due to income 2019. Eight. The bill presented above is suggested that the regulations be extended and taken up under the pressures of taxpayers in 2021 due to the income of 2020. The report on the bill shows that the importance of the provision is attributed to the number of people making the transfer of tax into the tax for the contribution of stress files. While ensuring that the tax can carry out its legal duties, it has to be taken into account the rules on the limitations of the meetings as well as the general DPCs due to a pandemic crown's virus. The same argument is found in Article 9. The bill submitted to a comparable issue on the contribution of worthwhile tax files. The majority believe that it is premature to make a firm statement that the same viewpoint on meeting limits and prevention will apply to the 2021 collection. So let's add some more to 8 and 9th. The bill will be removed. In collaboration with the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, a larger proportion contributes to an increase in the lower limit of income due to child improvement implementing the pressures of public pay in 2021. At this point, the single - parent limit will vary from 3.9 billion. K. to 4.2 and to a couple from 7.8 million. K. of 8.4 The increases proposed to the decrease in income populations are expected to lead to 865 billion. K. raises the government's expenses. There is also the need to highlight the extension of temporary tax and tax laws, but it was added to income tax laws, public payment laws, and temporary tax returns laws not to be added concomitantly to tax laws in 2020. The regulations are intended to prevent a problem from being treated by the tax investigator because of a two-way addition. However, for the Committee there is a financial and economic bill for a change in law on the subject of investigation and the prosecution of tax delinquency, double punishment, while it is thought that it would be necessary to extend the time of the provisional regulations. In its review of the Transporter's Association on bill to legalize various laws due to budget 2021, i.e. The 5th case at the present assembly and has already been completed, was identified with the problem of driving cars due to a pandemic crown virus. The appointed organisation has to be allowed to reduce the registered emissions of vehicles used by motor vehicles, which moved in by a certain proportion to the calculation of the product tax. The majority of it seems natural to create temporary incentives for the driving machines to invest in eco-friendly vehicles, with the aim of speeding up the energy exchange. Sets the extra items to legalize vehicles, fuel, etc., No. 29/1993 is added temporarily to the requirement to reduce the documented emissions of carbon dioxide vehicles falling below 1 mg. Section 3. The law's about 30% before the stress of taxing comes from automobiles designed to rent car rents. The decrease, however, could never study a sum of more than 400,000. every vehicle. This reduction depends on the obligation to add commitment to an eco-friendly electric, hydrogen, or linking vehicles who are involved in the percentage of total automobiles, or 15% in the coming year and 25% in 2022. The objective of the arrangement is to speed up energy exchange by creating a positive impulse for the road renters to invest in eco-friendly vehicles. With this objective in mind and in order to prevent abuse of resource resources, it is suggested that the car owners who fail to meet their commitments to the minimum share of environmentally-friendly vehicles be reimbursed according to the regulations and full product fees plus 10% stress and, in certain cases, weight growth. However, the majority of the data shows that a review of the legal and regularity of driving companies has to be undertaken in some countries, including take into account the demand for driving equipment from car owners, economic motivations to promote eco-friendly cars and maximum use regulations and minimal production of machinery. After all, the conviction is that driving machines can drive the way to transport energy exchange. Finally, the majority suggest in consultation with the Ministry to provide support loans in accordance with financial support laws for less management due to a pandemic crown virus, No. 38/2020, be extended to allow loans to be made available in May 2021. Other changes that the greater part suggests are technical and are not meant to have material influence. According to this, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed to a special Senate document. Under the heading of this publication, however, this publication is under consideration. And the men of Óli, the Björn of Kárason, and Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, and Bordith, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, and Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Willum Þór the son of Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u110	Madam President. You may just start by saying thank you. A senator's optimism is expressed in suggesting that we do not need any special arrangements for the contributions of the pressures in spring, since we may be through a situation that called for our last session. We live in that hope. I'd like to ask the senator about a new provision made by the greater body of the Committee to add a tax on rentals. I wholeheartedly agree that to speed up the energy exchange, I would need the rentals on the bus. But there's a few things about this process that I'm staying at. For one thing, it is a rather cloven law. I had to read it a few times to get hold of what I think I did. For e.g. the approach to reducing the registered emissions of carbon dioxide vehicles, would it not have been more understandable to just raise the limit that this type of vehicles would have to fall below, which would actually be a considerably higher percentage? This would mean a 42% increase in emissions that would be permitted before it would be counted. However, I would like to ask mainly because I am not referring to those persons who are involved with energy exchange in the Commission of the Committee: Were they interviewed by the Environment and Resource Ministry, were they interviewed by the Directorates and Renewers, were they discussed with the projection of energy exchanges regarding this proposal? Have the amount of money may have been evaluated? They'll probably run at hundreds of millions if the rental car shops start to buy cars on some scale again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u111	Madam President. One of the purposes of this intention, the motivation they are trying to create, is natural to make sure that the rental car invests in eco-friendly vehicles. Of course, it is also the practical argument to encourage rent - perhaps my optimism - to invest in new and safer cars and make them better equipped to deal with the challenges we hope for. A senator - following the arrival of a considerable number of tourists in the coming year. This requires that the rental car be equipped to serve those tourists. The rental car will play a key role, as they did in the past, in distributing tourists across the country. So it is not just an environmental argument that is behind this proposal. It should be admitted that there is also economic argument, economic argument. Hv. A senator asks how much this will cost. Well, this may not be worth very much because it didn't come to this, we don't know if the rentals would make over the head of an investment in a very large number of cars. Then there's no discount on the 0's. In case of a moment. A senator thinks it's a loss of income for a government fund if the rentals buy 5,000 cars, let's say, I'll say less. A senator says that government funds also make money from cars in other ways and perhaps more money than the discount that may be paid in this case. In the end, and I know that sometimes it can be difficult for many to understand that, if successful, tax recourses can lead to an increase in the income of the state's funds from what is expected. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u112	A respectable president. I stressed the green impulse in my previous reply because it is the evidence mentioned in the committee opinion. It speaks of a temporary impulse for driving machines to invest in eco-friendly vehicles, with the aim of speeding up the energy exchange. The answer to which consultations occurred with those in the management system that regulate energy exchange and that have the overall picture on their own did not occur. Senator. I'd like it because it's important that these factors be taken into context. Here, earlier today, it was the highest. Prime Minister in unsubstantiated inquiries and responded to the increase in the government's ambitions on climate issues that were being introduced this weekend. It said that, fortunately, Iceland did not say that it was being supported by nonrenewable fuels with Kingdom grants overrenewable. In reality, though, if all of the eco-friendly cars are fully utilized with connection pay, only 30% of the money will go into subsidies on green cars. 70% next year, gas truck subsidies. This ratio goes to 40/60 if the rental cars buy electrical cars, 30% of the subsidies, 960,000, on 15% of the cars purchased by the rentals compared to 400,000 per 85% of the money they buy. [[Thirty percent off.]] That means that the main part of the indiscriminate, as a result of a demolition of valuable tax and product expenditures according to this change proposal, is always going to the gray cars next year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u113	Madam President. You have to admit, I'm just not smart enough to track the figures as good as any. A senator took it because I didn't understand it. It has to be acknowledged that I don't have much answers when I don't understand these calculations as well as I do. There was a senator on this table. He asks if there was an appointment. Yes, this change was encouraged by the Department of Employment, and this change was encouraged by the Ministry of Employment because the Ministry of Employment understands what is at stake here. They understand what's at stake here. I'm telling you, what. A senator, and I know that this can get irritated. A senator, but I am telling you that this change, the motivation that is being put in here with the car rents, is a big step in making Icelandic car rents a major part of the energy exchange that we all agree we have to go through. And why? A senator cannot rejoice over such a step when, at the same time, he is promoting and strengthening these important companies in the important work that we all hope to recover in the months to come. It's incomprehensible to me, Madam President, incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u114	Madam President. I hereby recommend a minority of 1st-minds, my share of the company's orders to the Economic and Business Committee. The global epidemic has been affected by a variety of pressures on the business sectors in the country, and it is the food sector among those who have become the most aggressive. The fact that foreign tourists are hardly seen here is no longer necessary. The number of guests who can attend the services of these enterprises has been severely limited and has been cut off for a longer and shorter time. In spite of the good intentions and other general government measures to cope with business traumas, such as a lock and income decrease, this is not enough. Further measures are needed to stimulate the company and attract customers when they are finally able to pick up places and when the number of tourists is growing again. There is no great doubt that these companies are an important part of everyday life, and of cultural and entertainment in the country, as well as essential things and one of the reasons for flourishing tourism. If the tourism service is to be accepted during a pandemic, it is clear that the restaurant field must have a chance to survive. In the current year's trip, where health and meeting restrictions have so far screwed up the demand side of the economy, there is nothing wrong with having the community to drop their companies. Few operators could rightly have anticipated a shock of this magnitude and realized that the market will not soon fill the formation gap. No one learns a lesson in business because of going under a global crisis. In contrast, what has a positive effect is to promote a progressive continuation of employment relationships, to minimise public income loss, and to create an environment that supports job development instead of working against it. This aims to indicate a 1st decrease in parts of the bill and, in fact, other suggestions we have been offered in the treatment of budgets. Everyone has the goal of making it possible for the companies to survive, to attract customers, and to increase the level of social activity that certainly does not work. These include our proposal to postpone the level of alcohol consumption and a proposal that will be made for the second travel bill, to expand it, and to extend it so that it will not only reach the restaurant sector and tourism in the narrowest sense but also be for the cultural and art sector, and that the demand for the services of these parties will increase as soon as it is permitted to attend. However, the contribution of 1st to this bill is a temporary reduction in the value tax. In accordance with local laws, restaurants are to be returned to 11% of the value tax on food and other food products including alcohol. But as with the liquor, the value tax, the nature of the case, leads to a higher price of sale to the consumer. Of course, it is the very nature of tax returns, such as a tax tax tax returns, that it is, and nothing about it. A top tax is one of the more important government revenues and no reason for others, although it may always be reasoned about its ratio, its different steps, or even the products and services that are excluded from the tax, the proposal that is presented here does not interfere with any of this system. However, the suggestion means a temporary reduction to one year, next year, the tax rate to a highly defined outbreak activity that needs to be helped back up. The best way to do so, including. it is a basis for improvement as early as possible through increased trade and, therefore, income. In terms of memory, the proposal is that, on the other hand, a firm with a valid license under the regulations of restaurants, restaurants and entertainment, and a firm with a valid license for restaurants in the so - called category I will last for a period of one year on a 6% worth tax instead of 11% of the sector that includes food and drink. This idea is not particularly original on the basis of what is being said here, since models are being drawn out of the rocks. In fact, many European countries have resorted to similar or similar methods. This is especially true because the way is simple. It's fast-acting and it doesn't discriminate. Examples of these countries are Germany, Austria, Belgium, Britain, Ireland, Norway, and Czech Republic. Of course, the method does not interfere with any of the enterprises'obligation to deliver a merit tax, but it allows them to collect 6% tax instead of 11% of the next year's sale. All reporting, monitoring, and dealing with the tax will be standard and free of interference from this arrangement. That's why, as I've been here, the proposal is that for one year the merit tax in this operation will be 6% instead of 11%. I'm not going to read up the technical proposal, it's in itself simple. In this way, I think it helps to get these companies back on their feet sooner, people who attend this service, hopefully get her at a better price, and the state gets its own way. As noted earlier in this matter, in some cases a decrease in taxes may greatly increase government income. It's better for the state to receive 6% taxes than no tax in the case of the enterprises and/or businesses that never will be. I can't believe this suggestion has a sound foundation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u115	Madam President. I recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to legalize various tax and tax laws. The bill we're discussing here leads to a change in various tax and tax laws. A smaller portion, which is the one that stands here representing the United States on the Economic and Business Committee, suggests a change in insurance law and income tax laws on child reforms. A smaller business all over the country is now under attack. It is important that, after the pandemic has passed, most of them can act quickly and effectively, employ employees, and have a valuable creation. To support smaller companies yield long-term benefits by competing for benefits to consumers. A temporary cut-off for a private and small company, as well as a quick decrease for an SME, is the simplest and best way to support the work, spend jobs, and increase the number of jobs. The operation is useful in a number of companies, such as tourism and cultural activities, but it also serves the purpose of maintaining a biological competition in all sectors of employment. Another smaller portion suggests a $2 billion donation. K. a discount of insurance fees in 2021 With the discount, insurance fees for dictators and microsurgeons fell. Small, medium-sized enterprises get a good discount and are also lightweight with larger companies. The proposal is to increase recruitment incentives and protect jobs as well as facilitate companies on the biographies agreements. Madam President. This is a suggestion to apply for one year. In 2021, we expect a viable company to pass off the cow and it will be better if they don't have to pay insurance with each job. So it's a very good proposition for us, and I hope that the whole U.S.R. will consider it. They may wonder how much this cost. This is not an inexpensive operation, but it will return a lot. These are measures of approximately 19 billion. If we subtract from this 4 or the other part suggests that the insurance fee will be reduced, we will leave 15 billion in this operation. It is important, and we have discussed that in these unusual circumstances, we try to think outside the box. Let us be bold, practical suggestions that we know to be of great importance to our companies. Cutting off insurance fees for one year from small companies, companies with five employees or fewer, would make a big difference in the workforce. Madam President. We also make adjustments in child - welfare proposals. The majority suggest a change in income taxation, which assumes that child benefits start at 351,000 levels. This is the minimum pay period per month according to the biography agreement, on January 1, second. Child support is a powerful tool for equalizing it. This has proved to be the end of the Norwegian nations, putting all their emphasis on child reforms, and in this regard they do much more to us. Astrologers emphasize that child - care is for all children's families and that it is a failure to match the status of children with those who do not share children. Another smaller part suggests that the first step toward child reform is not to be impaired until average pay is paid. With 2 billion bucks. In addition to child support, the lower limit of decline can reach 410,000. every month for individuals or 820K. for married couples. Sets 2 smaller objects to increase the child's lower limit of decline by 2,400,000. For married couples and 1,020,000 bucks. For individuals, and this is the amount over a year. A corresponding rate increase in the upper limit of child improvement is then proposed. Madam President. Of course, the bill we're discussing is a wide range of areas, and we in the United States will take their stand on the basis of both the adjustment of the more part and the bill itself when it comes to subsidies at the Senate Hall, as well as the modification proposals of the 1st smaller things, which may seem okay and will probably agree on votes. But I'm done with what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u116	Madam President. I'd like to talk a little bit more about the parts that changed more that I went over here in reply to. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kámsson. That's where I couldn't get the numbers out clearly enough, so I understood well, but hopefully now that I've only taken a little more time. Hv. A senator said that the adjustment to the will of cars to buy eco-friendly cars is a big step in making driving rents available to play full part in the energy exchange that we would all agree that we had to go through. You may just start by saying that I have a heartfelt agreement that we have to go through the energy exchange, and I think when it comes to transport energy in the country, car rents are a capital deal where rental cars are big, even the biggest, of the retail markets. However, I'm not sure that the change that the greater part suggests is necessarily the only step that is likely to make car rents fully involved in the energy exchange. It is true that the system that is in force around energy exchange has become extremely complex. It is sewn together from a variety of pieces, and it is beginning to lack a complete approach on how to obtain a payload of vehicles in order to achieve all the goals that have been crammed here and there into different laws. It is reflected in a way that covers more than a page and covers more of the laws we have under discussion at the council. I'd like to mention three things in particular. First, it is suggested to reduce the reported emissions of carbon dioxide vehicles under the directive by 30% prior to the stress of the product charge due to vehicles used for rent-exploited rentals. So, you know, a car comes to the country. It has registered emissions, and it receives 30% off of that emissions before we figure out where it fits into our currency model. If we look at this from the other direction, if we look at Article 3. legal innuendo in terms of cost-of-employment spending, as the zero limit for carbon dioxide emissions of 90 g per mile (1 km) means that the 90 g for these specified vehicles is up to 128 g; the 128 g emissions of this 30% discount are below the 90 g limit. In this way a 128 g - g - emissions rental would totally escape the cost of goods. This inevitably reduces the economic motivation that this limit is to serve. They are to encourage people and businesses to buy vehicles that fall below the 90 g limit because they become less expensive. This adds the range to 128 g, which is 42% increase. Thirty percent off means on the other side of the account equation 42% increase in the cost-free interval. There is a lot at the same time as the government is proclaiming increased ambitions for climate. It's a huge deal when this is supposed to be a big step in making rentals able to take full part in energy exchange. However, this reduction of the product charge should not exceed 400,000. per car, but up to 85% of the cars purchased in 2021 and 75%, respectively, in 2022. In this way, the car rent is to be encouraged to invest in eco-friendly vehicles for the 15% in 2021 and 25% in 2022, and here the system is still becoming involved because this article, which is involved in the product law, and the discount that goes to the fuel trucks from goods, refers in this case to a law on merit taxation and supports there by the definition of eco-friendly driving equipment in the 24th law to make temporary legal decisions on worth taxation. In this arrangement, the eco-friendly cars pay up to a total of 9 60,000 dollars. Each car in case of a link car or 1,560,000 k. for each car in case of an electrical and hydrogen car next year. This is a bigger discount on each car, but because these cars are only 15 or 25% of the total number purchased by the rentals - if we take these two discounts in our goods and credit taxes, higher amounts are going out of the box, if this discount is fully used, in contaminated cars. Here's why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason to the air is 5,000 cars, which could be as good as next year. In 2019 C.E., they purchased 5,000 cars, a contract year. The year before, they were 8,000, but tests were to be calculated on the basis of 5,000 cars. Fifteen percent of the eco-friendly cars are 750 cars. If they're all connected trucks and the full-on discount, that's 720 million coming in. K. coincidence to them. If the other 85%, which are contaminated fuel or diesel trucks, use their final discount of 400,000. They get 1.7 billion. There are 720 million in transport trucks and 1.7 billion in fuel cars. This is a very strange way to enable your rental car to have a full share in energy exchange. I don't think it's going to work out to subsidize the contaminated cars for the most part of the money available to get the rentals to buy eco-friendly cars. It'll be a little better, considering the higher subsidies, if the rentals only buy electrical cars, but that doesn't cover much. If all the eco-friendly cars are connected cars and all the complete use of their discount next year, 30% of the attractions will be available to them, 70% to the decomposing cars. However, if all the cars are electric cars, 40% of the subsidies go there, 60% in contaminated fuel and diesel trucks. It's not how energy exchange happens. This is how nonrenewable energy is being supported by the direct of Kingdom grants more than renewablely, at the highest level. The prime minister said this morning that it was, fortunately, not the case in Iceland. But here we have a system that thus installs subsidies in a community field. That's not the place we're supposed to be in 2020. It's not the place I would have expected the government to be in the same breath as it will announce an increase in climatic ambitions for the United Nations. What makes this energy even more ambiguous is that more part of the Economic and Business Committee opened the provisional terms of the cost taxes for subsidies in next year's contact trucks to make their way out at the end of the year. If the subsidies had been removed, this would already be a much better case. It would be to push the rental car toward new energy-only cars. But with this opening made up by the committee a year ago, it is being offered that the eco-friendly cars, which are paid to obtain subsidies from contaminated cars, become more and less linking cars. Link trucks are useful for a number of things, but their advantages are expressed, I think, especially in the use of tourists. Corporate trucks can walk in shorter power until the battery drains. Thereafter, they begin to spend similar - even more - gas trucks. The travellers who are about to rent these cars at the rental car are most likely to travel more distances. If this injury, this combustion in a fuel truck, tempts the rental car to buy green cars, it will be used mainly to buy link trucks, we are expected to subsidize contaminated fuel cars and connected trucks that will be used in a way that will mass a lot. Then we are talking, not about taking full part in energy exchange, but directly working against the goals of energy exchange at the same time as the government's ambitions are being increased. That's why I just don't like the suggestion. I think it would be better to put it aside, at least not act like it's green and eco-friendly and a servant of energy exchange. If people want to pay their rent directly, they can. But we are not to dress the matter in green when it is actually gray and if it does not work out. Then these changes could only be put aside and more fully proposed suggestions on how to further encourage energy exchange in transport, which are not the driving force at the end of the Parliament's Economic and Business Committee, but by the direct approach of the best - known partners; for example, I am a member of the Council. Thinking about project management of energy change - I got it. A senator does not answer me whether she had come to this - or merely by conquistador to the suggestion. Let's say 5,000 cars are making full use of the discount next year, we're talking about a suggestion that may run at 2.5 billion indiscriminates to connect trucks and gas cars. For 2.5 billion, there are things you can do. But it might also have been discussed with experts, and it might have been discussed with this aspect that is presented here as a modification proposal for a 2nd cover. ... atthelastweek before Christmas. And then I'm afraid there's a throw to the hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u117	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend the discussion. There's a lot of good things in this bill, but I wanted to come in on the insurance bill specifically. We know that work market prospects are not good, and these are mainly attributed to the virus epidemic and to the crash of tourism and related branches. By the end of October, 25,000 people enrolled in the work force, of which 22% are unemployment in Southnes twice the national age. It is very important to support the companies in these circumstances so that they can keep their employees and hopefully add to the staff as soon as they begin to publish. It is also appropriate to keep in mind that since October 1, the Habitat forecast. magazine accounts for 3.91% of interest in 2021; then, the Navy produced a forecast that is darker than what the Habitat predicts, where the bank assumes 2.3% interest. In the case of unemployment, Haguess assumes that it will be 6.8% nationally, with a darker forecast again, assuming that it will be 8.3%. So there is still uncertainty in the maps about what the job will be like in a new year, but we certainly hope that it will begin to improve as soon as vaccination starts here in a country where we all look forward to it. Business support is also necessary because pay costs have increased and the tax paid by Icelandic companies is relatively high in international comparison. It's second in Iceland in the North, behind Norway. We know that after the 2008 financial collapse, corporate taxes were raised in an effort to close the budget. Since then, however, these tax changes have been taking place, and down payment has been an ongoing obstacle to the government's spending. This is one of the largest stock markets in the state's budget, but it is now that high spending costs are the worst in companies where pay and pay-in-law costs are largely high. And we must not forget that improved Iceland's competitiveness is natural, and especially in these days when the restoration begins hopefully, and the resistance soon, we must be in a position to meet it. Then competitiveness is important. We're in the middle-of-the-line group. We've proposed a two-year transition. a little while ago about cutting down the insurance fee. Now the insurance bill is in 4.9% and will be temporarily reduced to one year or in place in 2021 and at the pressures of public pay in 2022 due to income in 2021, from 4.9% to 4.65%, to a total of 6.10%. We in the Middle East would have wanted to see more reductions in the next year because it is very important, as I said before, to strengthen the position of the enterprises on this difficult year's journey, and to keep companies fighting in the backs now in bankruptcy within those last yards, hopefully, these problems. Sadly, that proposal was expressed in a vote at 2nd. ... abundant. The fact is that the insurance bill has been increasingly used to finance other financial expenses, and it is natural to think about it. We know that the fee is calculated as a percentage of the salary paid by the company to its employees, the more dollars the company pays, the more money it needs to pay for. The higher the insurance fees, the more expensive, each employee is for his business. I'd like to be righted, Mr. President, that it is very important to care for companies and to do so, especially in smaller companies. They've been a little bit ahead of us, this last firm, in government action. It's been shown. In fact, they have had a survey of the ways the government has benefited them, and in many cases smaller companies have been left out. It has, for example. It turns out that once they've been applying for a scholarship, it's been a complex process. Even corporate owners have had to seek help to apply. They have applied in good faith, and since then they have not been authorized to apply, they have had to reimburse, which has been a bad influence on the business. So there must be, as it is, that there are many things in this operation of the government that would surely have been much easier to do. Then, for example, it comes. on the day of monotonous, these strengths are of great importance when you look into positions and when your owner himself is working with his company, he cannot apply for strength in his name as an amulet. It is in this process that has truly had to be fixed because it is very important to be equal. Finally, Mr. President, there are good things in this bill and hopefully they'll be useful. But I'm returning to the fact that we in the Middle Ages would have wanted to see a further reduction in the budget because it's once so that the next year, we're going to decide how many companies are coming to survive this virus epidemic. It depends, of course, on what it will be, how powerful it will be, and when it will start. Therefore, it is extremely important that we live as well for a company as we can so that they can keep their employees, all of which remain in their hands, and that we reduce the high unemployment that is present to us and that is a disaster.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u118	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Committee's list of changes to bill for the cross-examination for the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee. As stated in the Committee opinion, the Committee met with representatives from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Group of Travellers, the Association of Professional Drivers, the Alliance of Independent theaters, the Association of Enterprises at a restaurant market, and the Association of Small Enterprises, Monographers and Drivers at their own Social Services. The committee received 14 reviews and is all available on the council website. The bill is a part of government action because of the economic consequences of pandemic crown virus. The recommendation presented here is directly followed by a bill to legalize the revenue levels adopted at the World Council of November 5, the past. For the members of this committee, various people have promoted the views that, in order to achieve the objective, it is important to have a source of 2 mg. Section 5. to aim the financial level at the number of positions in the same month of 2019 will be general but not limited to those who use access permissions 1 of that paragraph. Many operators are in the position to reduce their levels as much as possible but still have other operating costs to be met. The rule that funding level should be at the highest level for each position of the operator in the month applied for grants could result in a failure to focus on the actual extent of the operation in the standard year. Thus, financial levels are less likely to help the operator over the hardest part of the network, maintain minimal activity and business relationships, and ensure resistance when it comes to years, as the bill says. The majority agree with the above views and suggests that all operators under the bill will be allowed to calculate the financial height, based either on the number of status values in the month of granting grant or in the same month in 2019. And, of course, humans choose a more favorable comparator month. To the application for maintenance concentrations prior to November and December 2020, you may therefore aim at the position of the operator in November and December 2019, and to the application for strength prior to January 2021, you may aim at the position in January 2019 and so on. If a operator has started his work after the start of the same calendar month in 2019, he will be allowed to aim at the average number of positions of the operator during the entire calendar year of 2019. In the case of the operator who started the job on March 15, 2018, and applied for suspense levels by January 2021, it is permitted to aim for the number of positions at the average number of monthly positions for the operator in the month of April to December 2019. However, the rule that crossborder strength can never exceed 90% of the cost of operating during the month of application. In this way, the majority of the cohesion figures that there is still room within the cost assessment carried out and that the bill will be explained, saying: The methodology is likely to be overrated by a number of standards because the standard values of the organisations are expected to be at least 5 companies are thus entitled to a maximum value of forestry However, the actual cost of the state's resources in terms of the resource will be closer to the external expense of the estimate. Mr. President. In the above, the more part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes provided by the committee opinion. Under the heading, write why. And the men of Óli, the Björn of Kárason, and Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, and Bordith, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, and Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Willum Þór the son of Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u119	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and would like to express my appreciation for what was presented in his case to agree on comments received, especially from smaller companies and cults for tourism, to be looked up and to be able to watch the number of places in the current activity in 2019. This is very important, and I'm glad the committee looked at those comments. This is important to this group. All I want to say is that at first the government was focused on its activities in the medium-sized and large companies of tourism. If you look at the numbers, you will see which company has been using these resources. However, these measures were very limited for smaller companies and dictators and some of them nothing at all. Small that have not had a conversation to identify the needs of the enterprise and how these tools have been suitable and how they have been used. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with me that there would have been a lot more conversation with this person to understand their needs, how these measures were suitable, and how they were used? That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me that it could have done better?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u120	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator says that we can certainly do better in things. I'm not going to argue that everything that has been done has been done in the way of hope, but it doesn't change when we look at the big image that the measures taken have made a difference for a large amount of Icelandic employment and particularly for the companies who have been dealing with problems. Wrong as hell. A senator claimed that there was no conversation or consultation, e.g. small business. I don't know how many conversations, if not divided by hundreds, I as president of the Economic and Business Committee, have dealt directly with spokes and owners of small and medium-sized companies in the past few weeks and months. I think that applies to all the other committees in general. The Economic and Business Committee, which has produced detailed and practical suggestions based on conversations with little people across the country. The concentrations of gambling we supplied here were precisely tailored for monotonous and small firms, companies with five employees or fewer, although, of course, other operators would enjoy it, but never more than as sensitive five standards. The protesters are subject to a similar goal. I refuse that the measures taken have not been made to help a small company. [[The president calls.]] And the sponsor loans, don't forget them. I refuse to say that there was no conversation and, Madam President, I make it clear that every member of the Economic and Business Committee has had these discussions and the dozens of them together. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u121	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. That's what I'm talking about. So, then, a senator claims that no one contacted the committee and complained that these funding and action have failed to produce the results? Is it true that everyone is content with this and that no comment has been made? I have a letter here addressed to the Generals Committee, the Economic and Business Committee. [[That's not what I said.]] I understood why. A senator now, just so that all of this would be very nice, that everyone would be okay with it. But there is another point in this letter addressed to the committee. But okay. It is widely recognized that many things could have been done better in this process and especially when it is time to apply for it. I state that we in the Central Party have supported many of the procedures proposed by the government. But we have also come up with excellent ideas that the government has not been interested in. Although she's been calling for ideas, it's just been such a showy display. But the point is that in many cases this process, applying for this strength, being complex, slow, and not simple enough. It is very important in such measures that they are simple. I have talked to tourists who have pointed out that applying was so complicated that they even had to consult a lawyer to help them through the application forms and so on. And then they applied for strength, were strengthened, but afterward it became evident that they were not entitled to it and had to be paid back, and so on. [[Up front.]] So there are a lot of things in this process that would have been like this. But I thank you for listening to comments that are very important to these small parties, to the management of companies in tourism, to monotonous and to others, and to which it is due. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But there are also many things in this process that could have been done better, and I think that it would have been. A senator knows this well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u122	Mr. President. To be honest, I didn't quite understand. A senator was saying here. I began my first answer to say that, certainly, there would have been better things to do. True, there have been things that have not been done that we wanted to succeed. But as we look at the big picture, it's done well, and I specifically mentioned the income dropback. I have no idea that applying for that strength is a particularly complex process. True, it is new that they can be applied for strength. It is an electronic process, relatively simple and not very complex. The same is true of the penance. Of course, even if that is so, it has brought criticism to what the government has been doing. Senator. But part of the changes made by a greater proportion of the Economic and Business Committee are based on the indicators and criticisms observed. So I'm already denying it. A senator comes here and makes the impression that he is not listening to criticism, to criticalness, and to the tip of the parties who are putting everything into the business of small and medium-sized companies all over the country. No, no, no, no. Senator. That doesn't mean coming here and having some falsifier without having anything to do with it, because I'm making it all right. Senator, do you listen to what I'm saying? Shall I listen to what I'm saying? [[Up front.]] [[Listen to you.]] I will, and so will you. You yourself, what? A senator, who spoke to the committee earlier, in a previous answer, wanted to have taken note of the indications and comments received by the committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And then you turn the card in your second answer. I don't understand why. A senator. Maybe he never has.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u123	Mr. President. We're going over the SOS bill. I measure to the opinion of the 1st smaller portion of the item, which is made up of the one that stands here. Hv. The head of the Economic and Business Committee was picking up a large cover for the rest of the section. There are some things that we in the construction work to be happy about, but there are several things that we feel we could do even better. It's just like what's wrong. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, went over that there was a lot of errands and were large visitors and many views upstairs, as is the case with such a big case. However, there were some viewpoints in some comments that the 1st smaller things would listen to, and there were several factors that were to some extent transposition in all of them, such as the conditions of a 60% revenue, i.e. the share of revenues set at 60%, and the reference time of income and contracting, or the selection between whether the amount of money should be traced to a maximum of 90% of the operating costs or the number of status values. I'm not going to read the committee opinion, but it contains in detail the reviews that are most relevant to the opinion of the 1st lower things, but it's just going to limit some of the statements there. I'll take them down first in the reviews from the Labour Association and the Travel Service Association. It contains, for example, Attention is made to certain discrepancies that the organization considers to be in the condition, which says, by permission of the president: Interestingly, although a comparable approach is evident on the level of resistance and the degree of decrease in income, it is critical. Salivation criteria have been reduced from at least 40% to at least 60%. The bill of resistance grants. This has resulted in a decrease in the budget of up to a maximum of 100% of the person's annual budget during the application period according to the payload to a maximum of 90% of the person's operating costs during the application period. Vacation centre bill This suggests that most parts are being considered, and it should be welcomed, that they can be based on positions in 2019 and 1st smaller parts are satisfied and supported. If I'm getting caught up in the case of professional drivers, they'll draw the same points, i.e. the proportion of the income drop, and so that the reference period can be in 2019. As mentioned earlier, 1st smaller section agrees with this for the rest of the reference period. Then there's a review of the firm's organizations at a restaurant market. As previously mentioned in a discussion about the bill, and we discussed above, the situation is very difficult for various reasons, as further explained in their review, and I take part in the committee opinion. I'm not going to go over on my own, but I'm going to point out what their review says that the 60 - year - long payoff is too high and the most effective. It says, by permission of the president: In the United States, most people are fired with a very low supply because of the high price and the cost of pay. That is how bad things can be done. Both Sweden and Denmark aim at 30% loss of income in their actions. Such a diet alone is difficult to deal with in the restaurant business, but 60% of income loss is impossible. So high will cost of remuneration to make the support of a small number of people, thus not preventing mass bankruptcy and loss of employment within the article. During the trip, we have had quite a bit of a concern about this sector, and we have provided suggestions to handle this sector specifically and presented the discussion on the preceding issue, and I am not going to repeat it in myself but to refer to the committee's opinion of these subjects. Since then, it has been developed in this epidemic and in the struggle to cope with the consequences of its combined group of smaller enterprises, monographers and operators on their own travel landmark. They call themselves this, but they have not become a formal organization at least yet, but there are several hundred companies that have been confineing their strings and that come primarily from the country. The group makes comments on the bill, but the weight in it is what is related to the values and cost of operating that are fundamental and that the cost of operating is not always in particular in relation to the standards given to the uniqueness of these enterprises. Both are owners working on this, and then much is used for sub-product service in the business of these companies. The group stresses the importance of looking to 2019 as a reference, and I say again, it is happy that the greater part has proposed a change. Finally, I'm going to give you a review from Deloitte, an accounting company that brings attention to some of the points that I think are important. The review adds that, as most people do, this proportion of earnings is still being explained, 60% of the income is too high. The company is surprised to say that it is such a way of dealing with conditions for other support and, in particular, the amount of income that is relative to 40%, which says that income loss of this magnitude is now difficult enough to deal with, but it is as difficult in itself to deal with 50 percent or 40% of income loss as well as to name ideas as severity. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, Pirate, has said to have some sort of linear definition of income loss. I feel that using more linearly is now just in proportion to the problem we're dealing with, instead of having steps that always happen, when those who are right above or just below compare with them feel that they are just below the impression that they're being wronged. A smaller share, though, does not suggest this round. Then it is specifically noted that the only condition assigned to be able to gain strength, which I think is important, which is the requirement that you do not have treatments for broken or bankrupt when applying for strength, or if this applies to you. Deloitte points out that it is of course very natural that if you are under therapy for bankruptcy, you cannot have strength and it takes less than 1. But it also shows that it may be that companies who are in stretch-out therapy do not necessarily have to be treated as part of a break - up therapy that has the goal of solving the Society in that sense or that it is because you don't think that it is possible to save your business by some means, but because they may be in reorganising or working on reorganization of your business. And then, often, this happens by mixing companies even with other things and the likes of which, when they are jumping up, they require that a partner be cut off. This must be against the purpose of the law, especially in view of the fact that there are a lot of companies who need to undergo extensive reorganization and fusion procedures, and therefore it is important that companies are not punished for this and/or that they meet the necessary reorganization because otherwise they will miss the assistance available to them. Therefore, the 1st smaller things account for the need to be somehow made so that this will not be the case. Then you should point to an idea that Deloitte proposes to open a source for the fact that when applying for that strength, they can choose their own standards. It says here, by permission of the President: It seems that the time for the queries received to Deloitte is unclear when the rules should be addressed. - Then we're pointing to the steps that are there, to see if there's a right to 400 of you. K. or 500 you have. K. with respect to levels. And go ahead, with President's permission: These conditions could be considered by the researchers based on when to aim at 90% strength and when to aim for staff, or whether it is selective for the operator, which would actually be a better approach because it may vary how employees come into the management sector, even if costs are present in the company. I think it's a good idea that the operator is selective and would actually be a better approach because there may be a different way in which workers come into the business, though the cost is in the company, i.e. that you can choose to use 90% of your operating expenses or the number of employees, but this is not mixed. In line with this, 1st memory will want to take into account these comments and therefore suggest adjustments that include, in terms of a smaller portion, that the bill will be more selective and serve the target. A lower share of the opinion that the direct cost of the state's funds may be increased, but there is an increase in employment and activities, thus reducing the risk of bankruptcy over time. In the long run, these changes are likely to bring greater benefits to society. First of all, a 1st lower share will be used to reduce the return of the revenue target to 45% and to step-up allowances, cr. a- and b-joins 1. mg. 5. g., aim at a 453/4.5% drop in income and over 75%, respectively. This is a cutdown of the entry criteria, as it were, the barriers that the companies need to cross in order to establish the right to their new law. Second, it is possible to select with an application whether the strength is based on a 90% income drop or status value. As already noted, the 1st lower part of the change supports the greater part's proposal that everyone will be allowed to focus on the number of positions in the same month 2019 and on the SRI. Third, the requirements for enterprises not to be changed. For this reason, the first step is to reduce the share of 60% to 45%, and to change the treatment duration, as follows: It has not been replaced, and the operator is not under general supportive treatment. Part of the operator's fusion or replacement process is not considered as a systemic treatment course. This route is open to those who are in the process of reorganizing the business, possibly in combination with one or more enterprises in the article. There is an obvious need to be a measure of practicality in this article. And back to the step shift, instead of speaking of 60-80%, there will be a 45,75% drop in income, and instead of more than 80% more than the income drop is over 75%. In order to increase the applicant's option, it is suggested to follow 1st. Section 5. If a new paragraph is spoken, let it be said: ▪ Despite 1st mg. it is permitted to choose whether maximum financial level should depend on 90% of the cost in the month where the application for strength or a certain amount for each set of values, such as the a- and b-joints of 1 mg. However, the height of money can never be higher than it says. I think it's a very important law. This can solve a number of problems, especially those dealing with business in their own name or in a small way, and it is just very much a matter of proselytizing the services of a contractor. In view of all of this, 1st small part feels that the bill is getting a very good costume, and it expects it to go. Councilmen carefully considered the suggestions presented here. In terms of memory 1 they are greatly improved, they will make this resource more efficient and flexible and better achieve the aim of meeting all of these enterprises and granting them a real resistance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-14-37.u124	Mr. President. This bill suggests that financial support will be provided by the operators who have suffered a loss of income due to a pandemic crown virus and the government's efforts to protect the spread of the virus can maintain the necessary minimal functions during the outbreak's impact, preserve business relationships, and ensure future management practices. Before I recommend the Commission's opinion, Mr. President, I would like to agree with what the 1st thing said before, but in addition to the United States, I think it's very important for the Icelandic community to support a viable business to resist, so they can quickly take on valuables after the pandemic. It's important that we build a healthy and green labour market here. The government has to set high corporate requirements that they not become reference to saluting or cheating a labour market, that they are not in an active relationship with the tax sector, and that they show in their plans how they intend to reduce carbon emissions compared to 2019 C.E. The way out of a professional crisis is needed to meet a green future. The light should be work, well - being, and green structure. It is in this spirit that the conversion of 2nd-mind object, representing the United States on the Economic and Business Committee, is based. The objective of the future is to develop a variety of sustainable, professional life that has the potential to pay employees a good salary and ensure family-friendly working conditions. As the bill assumes, viable companies need to be supported, making clear the requirement that if a company is recognized as a salaries or other job market frauds, the company will immediately pay the money back by tractor growth, according to Article 6. a reimbursement of growth and insurance if the strength has not been reimbursed within a month. By such demands, governments promote a healthy workforce. We're here, Mr. President, talking about a viable business we want to turn over. These are the companies we want to help survive the pandemic, and it is important that we, along the way, make the requirement for a healthy workforce. A smaller section feels that companies and rich people who have taken advantage of tax cover have violated important aspects of the Community Convention, i.e. the factors that deal with the tax pay and payment of public remuneration are a form of collection due to the insurance characteristics of the norse welfare community. This is how 2nd - reminder points to the fact that by subsidies of taxpaying, companies and individuals clearly indicated that they themselves have made their own claims on government support. Other smaller things cannot accept that rich people make use of taxes, but they let the public carry the community through tax pay. Billions of dollars lie in taxes that people hide so that they don't have to pay their share in community, health care, law enforcement, or development aid. The Panama Documents showed that the scope of Icelandic economy was unique in the world at the time the data covered. There is reason to believe that it is still practiced here. Such activities should not be supported by public funds, since such activities undermine the welfare community. A representative of the Union on the Economic and Business Committee has previously proposed to exclude those who use tax cover and decommunications from the state fund because of a pandemic crown virus. These suggestions have been offered. There is no less reason now than before to make such a suggestion, and this is done again. The modified fraction 2 is presented in step 1. The bill. It is that in order to gain the right of the legal rights of the law, it would have to be expected that the relevant organisation in this country or its real owner did not have any financial contact with parties located in the low taxes area over the last three years. Thus, formal but inactive relationships of this nature do not affect his rights. It will be carried out on the basis of the declaration of the particular company or its real owner that the conditions are met. It does not require work in the administration board to try the prerogative in isolated cases. If the person later receives false information, he or she will be demanded to be reimbursed. This work is in line with what is commonly used in the tax administration. Another smaller section suggests that there will be conditions for climate support when it comes to the bill. It is very important that the companies who will rebuild the workforce after the pandemic put climate and green emphasis first. Changes in 2nd-mind object is suggested at Section 4. The bill adds up a new number requiring enterprises to provide greenhouse gas emissions data in 2019 and provide a projection for less greenhouse gas emissions every year for the next five years. It is important that the government performs demands on climates with the support of an enterprise. The human climate disaster is at hand, and the problem is not solved. This struggle is mankind's biggest problem, and it will continue to be the next loss. The requirements are not burdensome for an enterprise and easy to carry out. Enterprise support for 2019 is available, and this information can be used to deliver the release book. Visit www.Service pitfalls.is/expecture/doctries/see how to access such accounts. Good advice is on the page. Mr. President. One of the conditions of extensions is that they do not have support that have paid their owners or top managers a monthly wage of over 3,000,000 dollars. to each and every one. A lower share suggests that such criteria will also be used in the payment of repairs and that they will indicate that support levels are not intended for highly relevant companies even if they have been affected by a loss of income. The above amount takes into account an average of four times the total regular totals for full-time earners as measured by Iceland's Habitat Office, taking into account the change in salary. In the 3rd. The bill is the term "U.S.A.," defined as the tax-related income based on B- team 7. Law on income taxes, No. 90/2003, except for profits on the sale of permanent funds. In his review to the Committee, Þorláksson noted that, according to this, under the bill's revenue of capital gains, interest, interest, rent income, etc. which have little connection with the commercial loss of the operator because of a pandemic crown virus. It would be logical and simpler to aim for the definition of the revenue concept of operating income according to B team 7. a law on income taxes except for income, according to the C team, the same articles. Section 2 agrees with this and suggests a change of content. These adjustments are in the committee opinion and I'm not going to read them. I've been here about what they are and, as I said at the outset, it's very important to give viable companies a grant of resistance, and that's why I'm under the emphasis of the bill, and the modification proposals of the more part, and the modification proposals of my 1st, which also go further and which I think are able and reasonable to do. Moreover, the way we want to build up the workforce and we in the United States stresses that we are building here a healthy labour market and a green labour market, and that is why it will be promoted and the motivation to be placed as a condition for the granting of resistance.
