ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u1	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. A conference, about the length of a meeting, is suggested by President that a meeting meeting can last longer than expected by the council. The president asks, is there a vote on the President's proposal? There is a request for a vote on the President's proposal, and then it will be carried out along with other votes later today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u2	Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request to provide a written answer to a covering query. 1454, on cleaning services, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u3	President. I think it's important to come up here and discuss just what's going on in the council committees. I especially want to talk about a welfare committee where I sit, how much of it is in my opinion to abuse its power in a shockingly scandalous way. I've rarely gotten up here as angry as I am today, and now it seems that if the more part doesn't get its way, if the majority don't get their case out of committees at the time he's asking, without the memory thinking that the situation is ready to be taken out, then the majority power is used to take it off the committee. Instead of making a deal with the smaller section, instead of having a normal conversation and perturbing conversation with the lesser part, the cases are torn out of the committee in the power of the greater part. I find this repugnant, Madam President, and I strongly object that this is the case with the smaller parts of the Generalis. I'd also like to mention that children's Department of Affairs and Social Affairs are at the last session. The government speaks of the importance of handling this matter and bringing it to a committee. [[The president calls.]] Why is this no longer part of the program? [[The president calls.]] I suggest that this case be arranged first so that we can discuss it properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u4	President. I'd like to say something with a what. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen said that there is a very special situation that has now developed in several of the terms of the Generalis, where the majority of them are taking out cases that are really unsettled. One such thing is, I understand, being tore out of a welfare committee on this occasion. The same seems to be true on the job committee, handling matters that are not discussed at all. What is also interesting is that the greater part seems to be taking out the issues that the government has raised in the conference's discussion at the end of the council as a problem, a case that the government has said can cause problems, that this matter wants to be stored, and so on. The issue now seems to be taken out of committees, ripped off committees, incomplete, unfinished, ill - equipped. It seems that way. How do people feel that they are involved in the final talks when they play this game? Then I agree that the last item on the program, No. Twenty-sixth share loans, the highest. Of course, a social minister offers a much higher schedule so that it can be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u5	A respectable president. During the battle, we talk about changing the practice here at Congress, more consultation and conversation, but unfortunately, that's not the fact. After the scene at the health committee last night, you're completely speechless. There was a drug law to be torn out, a case to be carefully addressed, and a plan should be made. If we're going to be careful somewhere, it's right there. Twenty-seven reviews have been received. But no, no. The problem is to be torn away into total opposition to the lesser parts. And why? Why do most of our lives depend on and tear out such a vital matter, completely neglectful, and far from ready? What's the point?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u6	Mr. President. I barely missed a meeting on the welfare committee yesterday, where the devastating event took place that a majority of the committee decided to hold a second meeting today in order to address a case that has been handled by the committee for months. That was all the scandal. I have to say, in view of the instructions this has been made, that when a matter has been discussed many months in this council, it is not to be surprised that a larger proportion of committees have decided at some point, when a case has been discussed in the committee, should be taken out. To believe that there is some kind of betrayal or violation of democracy or something like that, I feel overwhelmed by the years. Of course, although it is normal for more things and smaller things to communicate, it is not so much so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u7	V.E.G. President. I agree with other members of the assembly, that cases are taken away from the committees. During this period of the council, the presidents of the Parliament meet together and qualify to negotiate matters to be taken from committees and brought to the council. I don't think it's acceptable that this method is used, that cases are torn out of committees. I'm here complaining about it to the President and asking that the tactics that have been on the people for years be held in high esteem.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u8	Mr. President. A moment's vision filled you when you read a section of the government covenant that involved new work at the General. You really believed that when a group that has yelled at the injustice he has been treated in recent years finally sat down in the prime minister's chair, he would change things. At my death, I had hoped but not because the band was going to take advantage of this opportunity to go even further. But they may not be surprised because, of course, these individuals who have been working for 20 years in politics come from the political school of the old men and work exactly the same way. Finally, I'd like to say this: The Department of Social Affairs has had 14 months to enter this council with the stock loans. The least Mr. President can do is bring another 15 cases. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u9	President. A member of the Independence Party, Birgill the Birgir's Ármannsson, listed here that, after the committees have discussed the matter, the majority may, of course, take the matter out of them. Of course he can. There are four cases on the pro board. Two of these are tapeworms, or all kinds of changes, to simplify a rule. All right. The two have done well, the fishing business, and the agricultural business. The cases will go out of the committee, after which there will be two cases. One of them is a pack breaker of the Constitution, pretty obvious, which has actually been salted. A minister does not want to take responsibility for this. This is being done in the Ministry, but it is said that the council is still in progress. No, it's stuck in the Ministry. So there's the other thing, about the change in salmon fishing and that sort of thing. It also contains a constitution material, as the minister offered the bill. Thus, the two ministers of the Independence Party have proposed a prime complaint, and it is clear that another violation of the Constitution. The rest is in doubt, and it is being reviewed by government executives after a weekend. Yet the head of the committee is going, why. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, to propose a judicial opinion on the case on Monday and then to proceed immediately, even though it remained in salt for six months while waiting for an effort to be made. [[The president calls.]] They're violating the constitution and rights as a minister suggests, and what? Then we've got a new approach, a new bill, and we're just supposed to shove it in and stuff it all in. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's not professional. It's an abuse of power. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u10	A respectable president. It's true that the chairman of the Independence Party class is, well. paritaprevir A Birgir's Ármannsson, says it's not that much of the part is in charge here at the council. Perhaps his point of view is that the greater part is in control, and he has a democratic authority to do so. But in some places, it is considered that the issues and most important are being handled so that they are the ones who are careful and get the best money on committees. Sadly, in this work the plan is now to break off committees, okay? The welfare committee and what. Work committees, before they're ready because the more part is in charge, or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u11	Mr. President. I can say the words of most people here have spoken. Here is a representative democracy, meaning that each of the 63 members of the Council has a clear authority and a direct authority from the public in the country. Each person has the right to express himself, to express his opinion, and to the worst of the Council is that these committees create an opportunity to discuss their conclusions together. Sadly, this has happened in the past. to the top of the committee, and particularly to certain members who may be on a professional committee, it is requested that there is no room for conversation in order to reach a joint decision. As a result, matters are torn out of the committee completely unassigned. They're not ready, and it doesn't matter what. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year says what's unusual about anything else. He may not have been informed of that, because he is not a member of the committee at night. The welfare committee, that no discussion has yet taken place on the issue that is now scheduled to break out at some additional meeting that the president has granted at the council meeting this afternoon. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There has been no discussion among the members of the committee. 1 1:28 earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u12	Mr. President. As members of Congress know, when it comes to the end of Congress, it is unusual that much is being done and that there is a need for additional meetings. So at the beginning of the meeting yesterday, I suggested that the committee agree to hold an extra meeting and suggest three timings. None of the minority would rely on them to respond in a positive way to their time. [[Up front.]] [[For example, the memory suggested on Sunday night.]] [[The point is: The greater part could not deal with it.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u13	President requests that there only talk one at a time in the chamber...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u14	Since this is where they call for an appointment on Sunday night, the chairman of the Committee did so, that's exactly what it is. That wasn't my suggestion. However, I suggested that if there was no agreement, we would be tempted to have a meeting today and as I understand, the president has dealt with it. In terms of the case itself, it has been a treatment since November. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] This has been discussed in a number of cases, and it is absurd to argue that there is some unprofessional, unconventional practice here. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I totally point it to the fatherhouses. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u15	The president prays for quietness in the hall and finds it important for this meeting to go in an orderly fashion, apart from the fact that it is desirable for humans to discuss and settle such matters in the committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u17	Mr. President. I'd appreciate it if people could draw attention to their members in the administrative part of the world that the word the president made here, could be settled, and found to be a more objective conclusion at committee meetings, would have to be realized. Pharmacodynamic laws are here for discussion and payment. It was the last meeting on March 9, i.e. Our last guests. The issue was not open to the media, but during the last days, news was received that the chairman of the case was winning the committee's opinion. He wasn't ready to share that thought, kept the cards tight, and sent out yesterday's opinion with the preordain that he should try to take it out today. As I look at it, it turns out that the chapter is missing one of the most controversial issues. Then it was there, and later it came, at the end of the day. 11:28 this morning with the message that the president had given permission for this to be done at a meeting this morning in a recession, and only a brief meeting would be needed because the committee should not be discussed. It's been written. It was a bit of a stone, it's a professional discussion, it just needed a brief study meeting. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is either an example of unbearable inadequacies or of what I think is more; fear of objective discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u18	A respectable president. It's a good tradition, and it's quite unusual, as it were. The members of Parliament have been eager to offer visitors and provide information from members of the Committee's Committee to agree on the completion of a hearing. Now there is a delicate discussion between the two. The councils on the outcome, the end of the council, and the assembly ahead. Rather than faithfully working in that discussion, instead of meeting the wishes of the object of reasonableness and honesty, cases are torn out of committees, incomplete, and in a conflict that is absolutely unnecessary. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson farms rightly say that the smaller part is out of control. This does not mean that much of it is permitted to misdo matters that are to be legalized for the entire population. It's the disrespect we're pointing at here. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u19	Mr. President. This discussion shows that we are in a traditional situation. It's beginning to look like the Groundhog Day movie, and I'm pretty impressed. A president to intervene. He's not just a chairman at some conference, he's the president of the entire council. There seems to be something more than little problem with a welfare committee and a trade committee with members of the board. I'm on a budget board, and we deal with a pretty big deal, whether it's a budget or a budget or something like that. Although we discern politics, the cases there are generally not torn out of a committee. So there is really something wrong with those members of the council who serve on those two committees. I'd also like to remind you that it's not democratic that the majority of the parts cross the smaller part. It's not democratic. 47% of the people chose groups of government opposition. The government must be taken into account. The country has no patience for this kind of work. We're going into the deepest crisis for 100 years. How is it that these three administrations are being carried out in exactly the same old-fashioned practice, in these times of all, Mr. President? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u20	Mr. President. It happens very predictable twice a year, and is always determined, to try to guess which day it is, that it becomes clear in exactly what the greater part will go on using its majority of authority in a very unfair and uncooperative way to destroy the peace. Now that we have just worked together in an amazingly powerful way through a pandemic crown virus, peace has been amazingly good, but now the peace is out because the greater part wants to put some more things through before the summer. Is that really a good way to complete a council? I have to ask, Is it possible to get things done better here at the Council? When will we start acting in harmony with the authority and importance of this institution? [[The president calls.]] I don't understand why it has to be like this twice a year, up to a day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u21	President. I was so deeply mired in this discussion that I've kind of forgotten what I was going to say, except that what really bothers me, what I find most is that it's so easy for us to work together. It's not that complicated. We should be able to have normal cooperation and a normal conversation in committees. I've seen it, I can. We can end these matters in a perfunctory way. I've been negotiating with members of Congress how we're going to complete this work now before intermission. At the same time that conversation takes place, a greater proportion of committees have to rip out a matter in a nonverbal way rather than talk to us and negotiate things. It is the violence that is most difficult for me to accept and simply not accept that the tools used in this room are violent instruments. That's embarrassing. [[The point is, what's all this nonsense?]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u23	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u24	Don't say that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u25	[[The point is, it's not...]] A respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u26	The president asks for silence in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u27	Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson's farm was introduced into a welfare committee yesterday, and since that, he feels that it is only natural for him to know everything about the matter. But what have we been doing on the welfare committee these past few months? Consider the case of Covid. How have they been working? Good and good. Has the lesser part resisted, or had an unscrupulous practice? Not a second. But it is only to be torn out by a series of 27 prescriptions that have not been discussed for the past two months. We're just supposed to get something to eat. I don't understand this kind of work, and I'm just saying for my part that if the same work was being done in a town like sometimes at the General Assembly, a competition, and all kinds of crap that doesn't bring back anything, I'm just saying, God help society if you work like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u28	Mr. President. I want to agree with them. Councilmen who are concerned about their work in some committees of the council. Likewise, I'd like to say something different. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen to deliver the subject listed at the end of the program in particular. That's what's happening. The employment board that covers a very delicate case, which is the salmon and trout law. There are so many complex and difficult questions in the matter that the lava is over and over again. This requires careful management. Now this is the case with a dramatic change form made by the board of directors, and they need adequate political treatment. It seems that it is not offered. I warn of this kind of work, and I'm referring to those who handle the government of the country and the council that these tactics and such large and delicate matters will be fully expedient. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u29	Mr. President. It's the biggest storm in a glass of water you've ever experienced. But it's good if people want to talk to themselves about being completely bloodied here and everyone, it's often the time when the council is about to end. [[Foreground on: No.]] This is unusual. However, when it is a huge matter to follow the councils and to sue the committees, it is always called out of the committee if there is a political disagreement on the content of the matter is very strange. [[There's no discussion]] Obviously, political differences are involved. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u30	Give a sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u31	If it is unnatural to ask for extra meetings at this time of year, when men are completing their meetings, and before Christmas and New Year's Eve, if it's unnatural to follow Congress and work a case, and to take it for and request other meetings, if it is unnatural and people don't trust to do so, then the job at the council is becoming strange, if we don't trust to do our job. [["You don't know...]] [[Up front.]] As with a welfare committee, the issues discussed had already been greatly discussed on the committee, and they were ready for review. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] If you tell the truth, you know that. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Get your shit in the air.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u32	The president feels that he is in the middle of a rather rude position on both sides.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u33	A respectable president. I'm not angry with anyone, I just want things to be handled properly. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It wasn't my suggestion, was it? paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson here in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, who was accidentally chairman of a welfare committee, had proposed some appointment. It wasn't my suggestion, is it? paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and that's it. [[Balds of laughter in the chamber of Congress.]] [[Up front.]] I think this sentence is kind of going to show us the situation and the work plan is in order. That wasn't my suggestion. I'd like to make it less of a suggestion that we try here to work together because we're looking at each other here. Here are some very important things that we need to finish, which many of us are prepared to finish. [[The president calls.]] But then we need to work together. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u34	Mr. President. Imployed work ethic, careful songing. That's my heart thing somehow. For the third time, committees are being taken from an incomplete committee. I refer to a case in which the committee's opinion was forced from the committee by violence in its time with the proposed changes. Sadly, this case was reassigned to a committee of committees because the committee's opinion was faulty that it was not acceptable to the council. It's all about work. We had to withdraw the matter from the committee in order to improve the work of the committee. [[It's a fact.]] The health services that were forced out of the committee on Monday were rather than trying to negotiate. Now the law of medicine. I remind you that yesterday we were working on a case involving immigrants and the welcome of refugees. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir is an authority guide. She allowed a discussion on the subject. There was a discussion on the committee. We offered suggestions, smaller things, and more things to discuss, and we settled matters from the committee all together. [[The president calls.]] This is possible if the members of the Committee permit it, she allowed it yesterday. [[The president calls.]] She allowed us to have opinions on matters. Only in housing matters did it go into a court of agreement. There's a meeting on the welfare committee. We can send it to you if the president puts the case back on schedule and I encourage the president to do so. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u35	A respectable president. As we have discussed, we are at this time of the year. It's not always a day, but close. Now June 12th, and 2017 became such a breeze on May 22. I want to kill it down there in one speech, with President's permission: ▪ One of the first and richest responsibilities of the Parliamentary Committee is to study, then try to work together if possible, but put them out with different opinions and opinions if such agreements are not available, only if the members of the committee agree that the matter is fully and fully researched. I think this is a good guide, and this is something I believe that a respectable president who is responsible for the success of commissioning can do a good job for him, as the matter is related to his having it in the pontta senator J. Sigfússon in 2017 and saying those good words. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u36	Mr. President. I have to say, it's always good if the cooperation of committees is of the good and better if things can be resolved in harmony. However, this is often not because there is a political disagreement on a matter. The decision being made in a committee does not necessarily mean that everyone is at peace with it. It is very important to bear in mind. Another factor is that not everyone agrees on whether issues are necessarily completed at some given time. This too must be kept in mind at any given time. It seems to me that there are issues mentioned here. I'm also impressed with the fact that I don't like to mention it. I have to say, to step in specifically between two committees. Work committee and what. A welfare committee and, in fact, specifically accuses them of violence. Violence is an ugly, big word that covers things that I don't feel are the ones who decide to suggest that cases be taken out of committees. [[The president calls.]] It's not violence. [[The president calls.]] There's just a disagreement on how to take care of it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u37	President. I come up here primarily to ask about news that came from this chair that should be interrupted at a meeting for a hearing. We were at a meeting in advance, members of the council, where this was not shown, not that it would be part of the day's program. I'm asking the President to confirm if this is so, and at the same time, when there will be a recession at the council meeting and allow room for committee meetings. It's a little special, I think. Then I would like to reiterate what I was directly or indirectly using in my talk here, to stand - or to stand - or to be, they have actually been delayed or cut for a while - discussions about the end of the council. If the administrative part thinks that this corruption of committees, of taking a case out, or of delinquency, is likely to make it easier to communicate that is now necessary, experienced men should know that it is not. However, I think it is important that we continue our discussion, that men take only the warning given here, those who control committees or more of the committees at all times, and give anyone an opportunity to negotiate the end of the council without being upset here. [[The president calls.]] This is not to solve them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u38	A respectable president. With great authority comes a great deal of responsibility, Uncle Ben told the Spider-Man story, by Stan Lee, about this year. The majority take the power, but so far the majority have not carried much responsibility. The smaller parts are also responsible, mainly for maintaining the greater part, since they have failed to fulfill that role very much, and, of course, there is a general agreement here, in effect, that the role of maintenance is smaller, even though it should be the whole assembly. Hence, it is so important when the majority of the parts use their power to prevent maintenance and good legalization. It's not a storm in a glass of water. We have agreed that we had our last discussion about the end of the council or a intermission on how members of Congress were to be handled. [[The president calls.]] Nothing's happened in that, nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u39	A respectable president. I come up here to testify. It was specifically stated by the head of the welfare committee that these three members of both committees, professional committees, and health committees, who said that in the past, had abuse of power, and violence. I can describe the violence I had at the outset of a meeting yesterday when I presented a committee opinion on the day before. It was taken out with the approval of all who were at the meeting and also of those who were on it. I'm being accused of this and I don't think it's a good idea. I just want to remind you that it is the chairman of the Committee that will handle the program. [[The president calls.]] Why, then, did the medication issues not have been planned for a discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u40	She was talking well about you...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u41	The president asks for silence in the hall. [[Up front.]] The president prays that there is silence in the hall, and speakers keep silent. It is minimal that this discussion should be handled in a decent way, no matter how useful it now will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u42	V.E.G. President. Now we've come to boring familiar paths. I will say two things: the great words that are spoken here concerning the people of the assembly, that they resort to violence and abuse of power, are not acceptable. We can't stop to talk like that in this room. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] The other is that at a meeting of the council groups last night, it was the smaller part that broke the discussion so that I view the ball as being at my side right now. We'd do it if we could get together and talk, but we wouldn't offer this movie here. Nobody's asking for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u43	Mr. President. I have a clear understanding that the members of the board prefer this movie to remain inside the committee, but that is simply enough. This is where the government's defenses have been determined. It is not surprising, but I suggest that the president pursues adult education among certain parts of the council that it is not the same with the administration and avoids objective political discussions. We don't know anything, so I'll answer what's been said here, whether political differences are about subsidies or not, or the Commission's opinion that came at half a day because we haven't had time to go through it. I'd like to make sure it doesn't have to be this way. Few cases are more political in nature than transport and environment. Yet, there it is. The discussion is political. She's tough, she's demeaning, there's more than one minority opinion, they're two words, I think. There's a warning, it's under control, it's political, but it's not one-on-one vow. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u44	V.E.G. President. This is an interesting discussion, and I'm going to propose to the President of the Generals that he will interrupt this conference to settle the matter. What concerns us on a welfare committee, and I think what's most important is that the committee's opinion is now at half an hour. Then we were told that there was a subsequent check-up. I can't see how you can claim that it's a normal practice. I've been over and over, and I have a lot of questions and many things that I would like to understand better. It's not even to finish this, has been said the committee's opinion is ready, because it's still going to fix it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u45	A respectable president. Here the word was used several times more than once. Senator. It is unusual that there is much to be done and that additional meetings are needed in committees, and it should not surprise anyone that the majority of the items are involved. That's right, a respectable president. It's unusual, unfortunately, that at the Council, this kind of work is being done. It was like this when I first arrived at Congress in 2013, and that's still the case. Unfortunately, it's unusual, more dignified, president. That's what's wrong with it. That's no excuse. Have a what? Do members of Congress agree recently that the Council is so highly respected for what it does altogether? [[Taken out on: right.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Is it not the time to change a little bit and to show a little more smoothness, the simple and gentleness needed to improve the quality of the committees or the general situation? This is not a great requirement, Mr. Honorable President. You're right, it's unusual, but it's wrong to keep it that way. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u46	A respectable president. I'm the president of what? Business committees, and that's where the cooperation is very good. Last week, I was filled with praise from that platform and was embarrassed and nodded, and I was only half - dead.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u47	You did good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u48	Thank you for that, yeah. þm. Jón Þór Ólafsson. [[Up front.]] That's why I'm surprised to hear this scene over a matter on a welfare committee as a matter of course. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson has worked very well with the whole committee, and he is willing to take it out, that it is being made up of major differences. I also think it's very bad when it comes to what's happened. In this room, members of the council accuse themselves of violence and abuse of power. I don't think we're in a good place, in view of the discussions we've had in general society, about mobbing and the like, and there's a fee in these terms to use them in this context when political differences are about whether issues are ready to be taken into account. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u49	That's not political issues, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u50	There was no discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u51	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir calls our complaints a storm in a glass of water and says that this procedure is in harmony with the mood. She also notes that we do not rely on ourselves to do our job, but what we are praying for is what we do. Most of the work is being done, working out cases before they are taken out of the committee. Hv. Councilman of the Left Green, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, said that there was often a disagreement about whether a study was over and no unusual about the presence of that controversy. Of course, I would like to say that it is minimal to allow committees to discuss material outcomes. It's under the standards of regular committees. These are the procedures that we should follow in the committees. Hv. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir said that president of the dog. The welfare committee would recommend the program. There is no greater respect for the part of the program. Helga Vala Helgadóttir, who has been taken from her to tread out politics, has been repeated. [[Up front.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] That's all the part of the program she's going to be allowed to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u52	V.E.G. President. I'm going to reiterate my request that there be a hold-up. I forgot one point before which I think it's important to be on account of this planned meeting that no one knows, which is to be in a meeting period that no one knows about, and it's that housing events are scheduled for the last night. Now we want to try to be careful with our welfare committee, but if this meeting, which no one knows when, we don't know anything about whether or not we can broadcast it for information. It was just that I forgot to come to earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u53	Mr. President. I was moved to come and add two points. On the one hand, it may be natural and positive that at the Council, we will be able to commend for what is well done and be glad that it has been done. However, people should not be surprised if they too are ashamed of what is being done badly. [[Up in the hall: right.]] That's the nature of the case. [[Up front.]] - I don't know if I can continue my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u54	So would the president wish that the speakers had a better sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u55	Of course, we should try to treat one another with respect, but we also bear in mind that the way people speak things is rather foolish and powerless if they cannot be critical of how people do things. The problem is, not that people speak unkindly, but that people sometimes do bad things. [[Taken out on: right.]] Surely, we can be ashamed of one another and commend one another according to what we have to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u56	V.E.G. President. I just have to agree with that. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Eagledóttir that president interrupts this meeting using his plagion experience and a well-known degree of reconciliation in order to bring the matter to a conclusion that has been discussed in the President's conference board. I'd also like to, as mentioned earlier, that the President would move the program on housing, the share loan of the Child and Social Minister, which is a very interesting subject and would have to be discussed well, further on the schedule, as before that is, for example. a case where there is a very long rosary for some reason and may take time to finish it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u57	The government does not seem to realize in these final meters that the facilities are set at the end of this meeting. Two days ago, Ragnar Þór Ingólfsson, president of the largest labor union, says that the biographers are already smiling because the government is not sticking to them, including. It's the housing business. Instead of doing what we're asking to do, get them to the front, finish that discussion, send back to the committee, and continue to work. Why does the government put the case in the back? To teach members of Congress who need to discuss other matters about delaying them? No. It is to be placed first, otherwise it is fully responsible for the responsibility of this government and this council president, the chairman of Congress, to delay a matter necessary to keep the biography agreements. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Then they're going to try to blame nurses. They can't go beyond the biographies, or everything's going to fall apart. [[The president calls.]] This has been dismissed from the labor leader and has been said not to stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u58	A respectable president. I was going to say exactly what I was going to say. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson said it here, but he just said it a lot better than I had planned to say it. Then I find out what I said before, that with great authority there is a great responsibility; and with great power, it is possible to take a very great deal of responsibility, but it must be taken. The majority have not been too willing to accept responsibility. Similarly, respect must begin with those who have caused it. That's where the effort has to come from. When it is not done, there is no effort from those who have caused and are to shoulder the responsibility, cooperation is very difficult because it is the feeling of being rolled over by those who have nothing to say. It is as if we were trying to court more of the things, those who have caused and can use them, to do so with respect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u59	President. It's so remarkable, considering being in the workplace based on communication, what we are at times in a fit of profuse and striking failure in these same relationships. If there were normal communication at this workplace and good information media, instead of throwing the committees forward at the last minute, forcing against ill speech and bad work, we would work together to make the best decision of Congress and nation. Sadly, though, we do not see it. The committees are being proposed, which are incomplete and incomplete. The job board does not allow us to form material differences, Mr. President. Rather, we are concerned that the matter has simply not been discussed well enough. Mr. President. I urge you to interrupt this meeting and try to help with better relations at the council, which is the responsibility of the president to solve it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u60	Mr. President. This discussion has taken place, and some have been said. I will in a few minutes make it my suggestion by e-mail to the Chairman of what. well-being committees not to have a meeting today but to hold a meeting on Sunday, as the chairman invited to a meeting of the committee yesterday. It may be that the committee, as has been called below, will discuss the matter better than that and hopefully come to a mutual conclusion. However, I would like to state that I have not had a disagreement with the committee on this matter. I've worked hard to get it right and I don't know better than what to do. Each committee came to that point and shared fully in it, doing so well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u61	A respectable president. This is an interesting discussion, or perhaps rather a special one, to listen to the more part measures this work order and repair. I must admit that it has been interesting as a new senator to learn about this procedure. One thing you can say is that if you have a attitude toward the memory and respect for the memory of the part, another is if you lack respect for the memory, respect for the Council, respect for the role of the General and respect for the legal arrangement. We all know that it can never be good when matters do not allow time to develop and thrive, when the discussion is not allowed to take place and matters are taken out of the committee without being close to the point of reaching the point of being a complete law code. There's a little bit in me that it really is, so it's really important, that it's more than anything else, that you drive things around, that you just put your power into action, even though it might directly take its place at the General Assembly, directly affecting its role, directly respond to its laws, and take a bite directly on the respect of the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u62	Mr. President. You're beginning to recognize this atmosphere you're experiencing every spring and every year for Christmas. It's not easy for you to think it's a little pleasant like other things you're familiar with. This is serious, though, because the committees are active in a very calm atmosphere, having little to do with time, and having little to do with it. So as this time approaches, this daring dance begins to finish things and they come in late. We wait a very long time for things from the government, then they come in late and they're to be pulled out. Of course, it's totally, Mr. President, on the responsibility of the government when things like this are going to come in late and work so late that they have to rush forward at the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u63	Mr. President. It is at a time that this one that will bring forward the Council President and serve as a mediator of reconciliation, setting the procedure for the council to be the way it should be. Now I know that the President is human and contented by nature. I think there are two things that would be right now, that would be taking a break in this meeting so that a person can interpret his advice and that the case of a social minister now inserted 14 months after the schedule would be reassigned to further discussion today. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[Take it up:]] Finally, I want to take my heart to the words that were uttered after that incident. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon has been looking for a good procedure at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u64	A respectable president. Last night, the nation was offered a terrible TV program, where candidates for the approval of the president of Iceland began a disaster. The following day, the nation is invited to spend an hour arguing over some matter on a welfare committee and accusing one another of violence. A respectable president. I feel that we should respect the victims of real violence and not use such expressions in our conflicts. I got it. I got it. Senators on welfare committees to solve their cases there, and I'm thinking about doing what I'm going to do. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson made a suggestion. [[Up front.]] Because of what has been said about the program of this meeting, I can't help seeing, a respectable president, but that it is in full harmony with traditional conventions. There are cases 3rd. first on the program, a case that has been at the council for a very long time. The following is the case in 2nd. and, finally, here comes a matter new in the council to 1st. Um, so I think this program is very normal. [[The president calls.]] Maybe we could have started up with her an hour ago. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u65	...man to go like this...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u67	Mr. President. It may be that the reason is right. But it's all Haraldsdóttir. It's Bryndís. It's not true. It's not true. V.E.G. A president has long experience, and when you're living up to that kind of experience, you can be invisible. After 37, 38 years of work, you also have quite a knowledge of the claws found in the book, such as that in your case. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson knows that. Now I'm not going to let myself tell you that the President is thinking that way. I'm only going to think about it. But I wondered if it would be cleverer to take the case of a social minister immediately on the agenda and settle it directly into a committee because there is a matter of urgency and involvement in the biography agreements and we should, at least, consider: to agree on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u68	A respectable president. It is always part of this discussion when she comes up that there is a member of the council, a well - meaning, pernicious person who complains that there is a waste of the time in a chamber like this. Perhaps it would be good to recall how many times this complaint has been made and why it appears. It comes out because the lesser part has no alternative when it is simply not listened to anything he says. When things are torn out of a committee without a objective discussion, which the greater part knows is the case, what is to be done in memory? What would the greater part do if it were in my part, or when it becomes in my part, do I let myself say? Of course, something like that, he'd talk about it, a respectable president. Everything we're talking about today turns to a party party. That is why the last item on the program is on the program. There's nothing new. It is not a mystery why it is. It's because of these old tricks. [[The president calls.]] It's the majority of the part that controls it, and that's why it's more about to change it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u69	A respectable president. It is good that even though it is unfortunate that a total of an hour of conversation was needed here at the Senate Hall to reach that conclusion, a greater part of the welfare committee could see. But because of it. Haraldsdóttir In a discourse on how to act as violence and bullying, the senators ask for respect for real victims of violence only to review a study of the international work force, which earlier revealed that the real victims of the violence that is 35.7% of members of Congress. That violence even appeared. treating the smaller parts at the end of the council. That violence is evident in the way we deal with one another. Loneliness is a culture of the workplace, and our workaholics include: how to handle the matter. If we are to have real respect for those who suffer, we will do so, for example. Listening to how cases are handled in committees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u70	Mr. President. I come up here to reiterate the request at the highest. The president sits down with members of Congress trying to share matters because it can be done. I believe it's possible and I believe it to the highest. A president can if he wants to. I'd also like to agree with two o'clock. Councilmen, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, why? 9th. Smoke. n., which called attention to the serious conclusion on the workforce as the highest level at the council. The president has repeatedly said that it is important to correct matters, but most important, I would like to agree with them. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson to bring the matter of lodging, which is a very important and very important matter to come to the committee, to the top of the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u71	Mr. President. When I was six, I sat down at the highest. President into this room. A respectable president has a lot of Congress experience. Therefore, I wonder that we will return to such places. Why can't Mr. President intervene and conduct this council in a better way than you can see here? Clearly, there is something large in two committees for the conduct of the judges, the welfare committee and the employment committee. I was able here earlier that I'm on a budget committee and we don't work like this. We do not have this kind of violence on that committee because of its members. That's why I don't understand why Mr. President, who is the president of all of us, doesn't intervene and speaks for better work. The ball's with the board. It's not with the smaller part. Again, I repeat that if things were all right, we wouldn't be talking our way here. Again, I reiterate that we are here at unprecedented times, experiencing the deepest crisis in the economy for 100 years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why do you think the nation has some special taste for this conflict? [[The president calls.]] They are primarily on the basis of the governments, which have just a share and can change the way they work, if that is what they want. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u72	Mr. President. I can't help but make comments with the word why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son earlier told me that the release of a council case has something to do with mobbing. I think everyone sees what kind of shot this is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u73	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A president for giving the word to me, but he cannot guarantee that others will not feel compelled to request the word as well. I can't be responsible for the feelings of other senators but I come here to accuse me. For word's sake. paritaprevir The Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, who said I had told her to resort to violence, since she was in both pains. The welfare committee and what. I'm going to read here word-for-word, by permission of a president, what was said. I said, Sadly, that has happened in the past. to the top of the committee, and especially to certain members of the committee where there may be a professional committee, it is requested that there is no room for conversation to reach a joint decision. Then, with the permission of the president, I would also like to quote my second speech here today, saying: ▪ I remind you that yesterday a case involving immigrants and the welcome of refugees was under way. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir is an authority guide. She allowed a discussion on the subject. There was a discussion on the committee. We offered suggestions, smaller things, and more things to discuss, and we settled matters from the committee all together. This is possible if the members of the Committee allow it - and there they referred to it. paritaprevir The Halla of Signý's Kristjánsdóttir - yesterday it was forgotten. She allowed us to have opinions on matters. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm saying: She was wrong about what she was carrying on me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u74	[[Up front.]] No, the senator has already spoken twice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u75	The meeting board is over, it was a part of the program...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u76	No, it's one meeting session. A senator does not speak more than twice in it. For a person to be able to get back to talking, a part of the program needs to be arranged. The president would like to say, first of all, about the program of this meeting that it has been prepared in a completely traditional way, and indeed, there was an e - mail exchange between the head of the Parliament and the chairman of Congress immediately yesterday and again and then the president took part in it. In addition, the president held a meeting with the council members at lunch for this meeting discussing the day's program and actually the weekend meeting, and no special comments were made. [[Up front.]] Then we were told how we were going to conduct the meeting program, possibly comparing books again when the day was tilted. The president announced that he might contact members of the council again. The president would kindly point out that discussions about the activities of regular committees and internal cases of fixed committees have the nature of the issue, as well as the meetings in the committees. [[It was tried.]] - May the president end his case unorthodox by the former vice president, Jón Þór Ólafsson? - Of course, there may be reasons to pick them up in the hall. The president is not contradicting that. However, after a discussion of this sort, which is now another hour, we may ask, " What are we closer to, or what committees are involved, and if it is not necessary to try for the longest law to resolve their issues where possible? ' It also included such things as the respect of the General Assembly and even the study that we conducted at our local work culture. We can also ask ourselves, " Do I have a strong exchange of words in the chapters here and perhaps a part of the problem in which words are being used? ' in such surveys. We need to be able to communicate with the moral of men and know how to speak, and that is true of all and, of course, of course, of a president too, may have been true in the past. All of us need to be cautious if we are to be effective in these matters. The president does not see the need to continue with the program and, sooner or later, it would have been. It is smaller and lighter than it was to be expected because a case planned for this program did not come out of document processing. I was optimistic, and it said at a meeting of the chairman of a council for lunch, that we easily amplify this program before a long team at night, and so it should be possible. If it doesn't work after that, the President will again compare himself with the heads of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u77	To answer, Prime Minister, Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs, Social Affairs and Children's Affairs, Industrial and Organic Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u78	Mr. President. In an intense attempt to defend their involvement in the discovery of the Þorvaldur son of Gylfason as editor of the Norwegian educational journal on economics, the minister of finance says, with permission: ▪ This is not independent of literature, but it is designed to support the economic policies of the North American states. This claim is false and not in accordance with its objective of increasing access to new information and economic research in the North countries by publishing literature studies. In reply, the minister also admits that he feels that it is not unusual for him to stand in the way of an expert in this way because he is not pleased with human community and political views. The officers of the northern countries were naturally appalled, while the work there was hopefully better. I have no idea how to list the class quality that the Independence Party has organized over the years directly on the basis of their beliefs and even though their inability directly leaked from them. This is serious and undermines the progress of those who deserve it. Bad for them, terrible for society. However, to oppose a qualified person in this way is simply unappreciated. Even though it's the highest. The prime minister is not directly responsible for the minister of finance, as well as for her body's direct responsibility for the government seat of the Independence Party. During the election season, the prime minister has repeatedly had to swallow scandals and conflict of interest between partners of the Independence Party and overlook the older ones, give them a certain legal thing, we can say. So I simply ask: Will she also do so in this matter, or will this have any consequences? Finally, I remind you of the government's government contract, by permission: The government will focus on good management, open management and transparency [...] Government will promote confidence in politics and government. How do you fit in with the financier, the highest. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, for I know quite well to the Norwegian cooperation where I served the office of the Norwegian co-work minister in the past. I have studied how the editors of that magazine can be found. A senator refers to Nordic Economic Policy Review. It is a publication published by the Norwegian Minister, financed by the Northern Economic Councils, and it is the Ministerial Committee responsible for the publication of this publication. That's so, because of what. A senator noted that this publication is not intended to support the Council's policy, that it is still mentioned in the meeting of a board meeting that oversees these cases that it was specifically considered important that this publication was strengthened in policy development and its articles to be quoted in English, by the permission of a president, to be answered in English. It is so true of this counsel, as is the case with many of those who hear under the Norwegian Ministers that it suggests that the countries meet for individuals in this office and that they are not necessarily advertised. It belongs, for example. This is where this situation is not advertised. When there was a choice of the current editors, at this meeting I quote, they requested proposals from the Northern financial councils, and according to my information, the Iceland Department of finance was particularly looking for a woman to be chosen for this office. It is shown in the conference that the first team had talked only about men and was suggested that someone attack the female calendar. I understand that this proposal has gone from the Department of Icelandic finance into this control group. [[The president calls.]] But the big thing about this is that the recruitment process is about how countries get together. [[The president calls.]] There, all the financiers of all northern countries can have an opinion on who is eventually appointed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u80	The President reminds us that the matter is Icelandic and if it is. Councilmen or the highest. Ministers use foreign language when they expect it to be just as hard. V.E.G. The words of the prime minister were used oriented, which could be translated as a date - to - day application.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u81	Mr. President. I hear the highest. Even if an scholar has received an invitation to work, the prime minister does not comment on this intervention. Now it's got the highest. Since prime minister worked in the accelerator, would it not be a problem to ask if he does not feel that it is impossible for him to receive early explanations for the academic freedoms? V.E.G. Prime Minister. It is simply impossible for us to pick up such the most beautiful berries on the trees and show the people that it is all right here when the body is rotten. V.E.G. The prime minister has set up a remarkable committee to promote trust in politics and the administrative arrangement, which gave a fine report, including some.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: (b) What questions will we consider in the next article? I'm afraid it's up to now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u82	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for pointing out that I worked in the Academy, which is likely to be intense. I've only been a practice teacher in that field. But what I was going over here, though that hadn't been the case. A senator chooses to respond in the way he does, for example, to the process under the supervision of the Norwegian Minister, such as. the specified position. Then you can ask yourself, " When? ' A senator speaks of intervention, whether it is an intervention if a minister who works at the Council of Ministers - which I have certainly done for myself as Minister of Education, and has had access to such decisions - whether it is an intervention if a minister or his Ministry has such an opinion when it is assumed in the process. It's just what I'm pointing at. I'm not taking any position as to who should have been the editor of this magazine. I'm simply pointing my tail. A senator is expected to assume that member members of the Norwegian Ministerial Committee agree on such orders, and this process I know well from my previous duties as a collaborator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u83	President. I'm going to continue with this inquiry as why. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson started with us. If someone needed to know that the Independence Party was performing political persecution in this country, perhaps there is no need to look further than last night's Kingdom Radio report. There the gesture was temporarily stopped and admitted unauthorizedly that scholars who do not behave expect to be punished whenever possible. Yesterday's news is just a smell of a much bigger problem. To ensure the only right opinion, through a widespread interest in interest of interest, the scholarly community has been so sorry that many of them have the courage to speak up. I didn't hear any better than that. The prime minister justified this work force. Secretary of finance. I hear the highest. The prime minister will agree with the secretary of finance and even hide behind feminism, as was done in his own time in the National Court to excuse that act, to excuse political interference by officials. But, fortunately, I have not yet heard that she approves of her work force in the Þorvaldur of Gylfason, he was promoted as the head of a political class with some post-requisition on the algorithm Wikipedia. [[Take it up to me.]] [[Take it up to me.]] Away from the way financial and economic ministers try to hide their actions through their vocabulary and their loopholes on what's not involved, all of them smell, President. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister: Is it a matter of scholarship based on political views? That's one question. It's a yes or no question. It's under the roof. Prime Minister interferes with scholars' advice based on their political views, okay?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u84	Mr. President. It discussed quite a few things about academic freedom, a term I know very well because I used it as a minister of education that such a term would be defined in the law of college, since one of the most important terms discussed by university students at all times. Hv. Senators can say whatever they want of them as they stand here. But at some point she threatened scholars or their theoretical freedoms. It's so that I've never been afraid of a critical speech. Because of what? Councilmen here cite a report of a trust-advised staff I appointed there a prominent critic and professor, to remind me that I, as chairman, was a man, Jón Ólafsson, who has not hesitated to criticize in recent times. I mention it as just one example of a lot of people about the need for those working in the Academy to be critical. But what I was explaining here in my answer to the question of why. paritaprevir The Logi Einarsson is the process the Norwegian Minister operates on the basis of. So I don't like it when it happens. Councilmen completely ignore these facts and talk about interference or intervention at the highest level. The secretary of finance, when the process itself is based on member countries of the Norwegian Minister, agreed on who is hired. I have had such opinions in the past as a minister of education and as a collaborator at the time of such recruitment, as the Member States are expected to agree with the candidate. I think it's a good thing that Iceland put emphasis on the nominee of a woman. Am I returning behind feminists in it? No, I just think it's a rather positive thing that we're promoting it in international cooperation. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u85	Is it possible to keep silence in the hall? Especially those who have had their questions answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u86	President. As in so many times before, the highest power succeeded. The prime minister to spend two minutes of our time in not answering my question, so I will repeat it. I'd like to state that I accused the highest. I simply asked her if she agreed to the highest point. Financial and economic ministers in their decision. The Akamese Freedom comes from even amongst them. in that scholars do not have to take revenge because of their opinion or academic work. It's a way out of the way to argue that I've been accused of the highest order. Prime Minister on such matters. I was accusing the highest. Secretary of finance about that. The position of academic freedom in Iceland does not offer to allow Prime Minister to sit by in his answers, so I ask again and state in advance that I will personally interpret outbacks and other ways to mislead the discussion in the way of the highest degree. Prime Minister agrees with the debate of finance and economic ministers, just to make it clear. I ask yes or no questions: is the highest. The prime minister agrees that the secretary and the Ministry are involved in the recruitment of scholars, based on their political opinions? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Does she agree?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u87	Mr. President. I'm pretty sure those words are off. A senator could not be called a very technical practice, to assume that she will consider outback what I answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u88	But I'm not a scholar.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u89	No, it's like--I'm not gonna say any more. I'm not going to say any more here because what I've been going through is the facts about how you're getting laid. That's the facts. It can be viewed as a way out. I would have thought that there was just some pretty important data in an informed discussion at the Allied Parliament. This is how the Norwegian Ministers'case is handled. As it was very clearly stated in my answer earlier, I do not link it to academic freedom when the council is in such positions that such a government will come together. Now I'm going to go to the highest. There's a financial and economic minister here, and I'm sure it can tell a lot better than I can tell how this recruitment process exactly ends that it doesn't answer to me. However, I have requested data on how to handle such recruitments, so I have made a very clear answer here. Then I'll tell him what to do. Congress officials are listening to the information I've considered as to how this is going to be done, rather than to accuse people in the future of a slipout that's not well discussed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u90	A respectable president. High-level clients. Child-friendly, theoretical minister has waited in line for food, but unfortunately, there is no food anymore. Older citizens, a particular group, are also waiting for food, but they also need to be taken out of their medication at serials. Under the top hat. Social Affairs and child - care minister is a work agency, and 6,000 people are out of work and they don't have food, 6,000 people who've been waiting for more than two months to get the hunger lice that are unemploymented. They took a loan to cover their first month, but they have to pay rent, they have to pay for their housing, they have to buy food, food. But no, they have another month to wait, and now they're supposed to wait longer. How is it chosen? As the work agency says, most people apply for traditional unemployment benefits that are unemployed. At the same time, we're finishing here for people who get 400,000, 700,000, 900,000. ... asimprovement. Are these the people that come first? But those in the lowest wage, such as those that have been contacted by me, with 300,000 dollars. and paid off, and to tighten the mat, and to wait, not for two months, but for three or four months. What kind of work are these? How can you treat people this way? Why on earth are these people not only paid now as they have been done so far, and they calculated afterwards, so they don't have to, I'm afraid, to go out and beg?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u91	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The candidate for this inquiry, saying that the increase in unemployment here during the Covid epidemic was responsible for the formation of 53,000 unemployment applications or partial reforms in March of the month. Comparatively, in February of this month, 10,000 enrolled individuals were enrolled without employment. Thus, about one month, the number increased from 10,000 to 50,000. There are 40,000 more Icelanders who had to apply for unemployment. It happened so fast. It was not as if a man could plan about six months earlier and could suddenly deliver 40,000 applications in one month. While the labour oce has tried to speed up the process as far as possible, it took six to eight weeks to complete all applications, despite the addition of 30 to 40 points. But I have knowledge that working this thing down is going well, there are shrinking and there are special applications in which there are no data or anything else missing and that they have been pushed aside while the greatest hammer was being pressed. There was a five-fold application in the Agency at the same time every employee was in the meeting session and was at home. It was not possible to maintain normal functions within the Agency, but most of it was successful. Unfortunately, we have not been able to pay for the time we wanted to apply. It's just one of the challenges we face when things happen so fast. The minister thinks it's boring, scary. The director has spoken the same way. We have added funds to the Agency, and the Agency has been added to its employees. I know this is going to be going on, the letter of applications that'll be over. This is one of the things we've had to deal with, face it, and the minister feels that it is as scary as the senator who asked the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u92	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice, these are just excuses. Pay this, count it afterwards as we've been doing, do it now. Where are e.g. The 25 million to whom the Family Help was to be done? Why don't you guys pay it out? Are you guys raising money? You say you put the money in. If they've put the money in the Labour Department, you'll pay it out. People need this money, they have to pay their rent, they have to pay for food, and they can't wait any longer. We know for ourselves that those with 300,000 bucks. The poor have not gathered anything, neither have they any treasure. Those who receive 700,000,900,000. A reserve is in secret. They can wait. But you turn it all upside down, they're not supposed to wait, but the others who can't wait, they're supposed to wait.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u93	A respectable president. This is not to say that the employment agency has not made a lot of money; it has paid out tens of billions of dollars. There was an increase from 10,000 to 50,000 applications. One senator noted that there are 6,000 who have not been paid. That means there are 34,000 people paid from the agency. However, it is important for the Agency to review applications and handle them, to complete them because we do not want some people to get their accounts. We're doing what we can and we've added to the Agency 30 to 40 levels. Under challenging circumstances, all applications are being completed, and I have to say, as it is, that they have generally been successful. There are some knees that are being caught working down on them. This is shocking for the individuals involved, but it is important that we stick to the process set at the General Assembly to follow when applying for unemployment benefits and other things. That's what the Agency has done, but I think there's always a better way to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u94	Mr. President. One of the main duties of a senator is the executional responsibility. To handle the monitoring requirements directly, members of the Parliament ask a minister about matters relating to public interest. This court of Congress is guaranteed at 54th. The constitution, as well as 57th. Congress. Similarly, there is a mandatory minister to answer, including not enough for 1st. Fifty. Act of Congress. Presently so that the person listed here has asked the same inquiry for the highest level seven times. Social and child-friendly ministers without any answers being received and related to various things; confidentiality, personal protection, etc. Personal protection laws do not apply to the work of the Generals, they do not apply there. The information given to the Council is not a matter of great confidence. By means of the president, the Director of Congress worked a very good memorandum in an effort to strengthen the interests of the Generals and the generals in their battle with the Minister in order to get answers to their inquiries. It is made clear in this memo as the highest. Department of Social Affairs and Child Services has been obtained for lectures, at least twice, that he should answer queries, and including a inquiry presented here seven times, about the maximum resources of the apartment loans. It says at the end of the memo that the appeal of social and child - care ministers should provide information has not been in accordance with the proposed terms of the General Assembly. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Will he continue to compromise with political laws and privileges? [[The president calls.]] Or will he answer the inquiry that has now been made seven times?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u95	A respectable president. There were many false reports in this sermon. A senator I'm not going to chase hassled here. All I know is that an answer has been sent from the Ministry to this inquiry that has come to the council, so there must be a spread in the next few days. The local minister has never tried to hide any information, as it were, but this has been a matter of communication with Peritoneal protection and public expression. The Senator, both from this platform and in response to inquiries, has been encouraged to pick up the matter on committees of the council, to call out for all the information and information related to it back in time. All I know is that an answer has been sent from the Ministry to the council, so it must appear within the next few days or the senator can connect with the council board.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u96	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of this answer is glad that at last there will be some outcome in this matter. I'm sorry that a minister did not specify the alleged misinformation that was meant to be in my words here. It would have been interesting to hear them. I'd just like to point out one thing, Mr. President: The last inquiry on this case, submitted before three and a half months ago, takes into account the record of the general U.S. Attorney General's review, which is dated on October 10, 2019. V.E.G. For six to eight months, a minister has likely realized that he has acted in a wrong way on this matter. That is why I am so happy that he deviates from that path and enters the narrow path we are supposed to take.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u97	A respectable president. As I said before, an answer has been sent to the council, so it must appear. At the same time, I have encouraged the senator, who has been a zealous member of this matter, to record the case at the council's scene and call for this information. What has turned to the minister has only been a matter of personal protection and what might be expressed in public according to communication - if I might answer, a respectable president - at Peritoneal protection at the time. [[Up front.]] I have encouraged the senator to record the matter and call for evidence at the council, but hopefully this case can be concluded because an answer has been sent to the council. Then the Senator can whip it in and cross it and hopefully discern it according to his client's rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u98	A respectable president. 19 days after the murder of George Floyd, U.S.A., protests continue. The protests are certainly about police violence and this murder, but as soon as it is a matter of systematic indiscriminateness and inequities, which is intertwined with the entire history of the United States. On the contrary, the reaction of the president of the United States has done nothing to ease the waves or to unite the nation. But there are dangers. The result of Covid-19 is that some governments have opportunities, they use circumstances, and they squeeze under the cover of circumstances and the condition of the citizens' rights. This is a well - known theme of this condition, unfortunately. The U.S. government accepted, for example. range, already the loud protests are in progress, and impaired rights of homologous couples for adoption. The situation there allowed attention to be elsewhere. There is also a cutting of human rights in Europe, and the situation is being made up of by some government. Viktor Orbán, Hungary, has confined to the rights of the trans-and- Intersex people. Sadly, we see the same frame in Poland and elsewhere. There is an increased hatred of foreigners, and the cooperation of nations is a challenge. There is a chance that some states will want to take advantage of Covid-19 to shut themselves down literally and steer people's movements in and out. We in this hall must be aware that Iceland is not immune to this atmosphere. Recently we heard e.g. The experience of racial prejudice is illustrated by people living at home. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister of Social Affairs to see if he shares my concerns with others about prejudices that can easily lead to violence, as we have recently seen. Is the government acting in some way? Does he see the international voice of Iceland having to focus on human rights status and the dangers of prejudice?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. Of course, we'll watch the protests west of the ocean, and I'll share them for a while. There's a senator over here about the fact that we need to be on guard all the time. We need to look to ourselves and take care not to sit in the chair of criticizing other lands but not to be ready to look to ourselves. I think there's a lot we can do better. I think there's a lot we're doing well. There are many things we can do better as a community. The government is now designed to create a link with Covid-19 to raise funding to take action to cope with violence in general. I and the Minister of Justice arranged for this operation to be controlled by a group of directors, between 200 and 300 million that are intended for it. That group is led by the governor, Sigríður Guðjónsdóttir, and the Eygló Harðardóttir, former social minister. They have been preparing action and interacting with a free organization, and others with what would be the wise course to take. But I share that opinion with you. A senator that we must always be on guard, and we must always be ready to look at ourselves in these matters rather than on the horse to criticize others because I think this is happening in Icelandic society as in other communities. This isn't something we win once and for all. This is something we must always be open to at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u100	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Social Ministry answers. It is known that when crowds are threatened, such as many people today experience during the pandemic and in the severe economic hardships we see, they narrow their ranks. Iceland is not immune to this, and it is government to be alert to these realities. This week the Court of Human Rights came to the conclusion that a person's case against the United States was not available for physical treatment, turning it away, indicating that the Supreme Court's judgment against man is unattainable but was judged for a gross, hurtful comment, a hate speech under penal law. Of course, the court shows that Iceland is not exactly immune to this, not insensitive to prejudice, and we all need to look inside, and we should do better, as the Minister himself said. But in that context, after listening to a discussion at the Hall of Congress, I worry. I'm worried about the government, for example. Regarding her attitude toward refugees and the alien politics that appeared to us there. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm asking the highest. A minister in the wake of this discussion here and his comments that we should look to ourselves also: Is the foreign bill in the government unique and supporting it himself? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u101	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this second inquiry. The emphasis I have had on foreign affairs is that children's status is especially viewed in this context. We've had some good discussions about that, me and the Minister of Justice. This is in the processing of the council. I think we'll have to get his talk to finish, and when the matter comes into the chamber, every vote will pay as he likes in it. But I would point out that this is a government case, and the government has put it up, and as a result, the government is in serious agreement with that. On the other hand, in both my case with the Minister of Justice and in public, I have stressed that it is important to strengthen the child's position on the run, on the part of children, and others. We've had a lot of work going on at the Ministry to do better on these matters. I think we can do better on that than we're doing today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u102	Mr. President. This in itself is not a very big matter, but I was unable to discuss it in other discussions. I'm gonna do it here, just briefly. I call attention to the fact that each committee seems to agree on how the case is concluded and is likely to agree on the changes being made. It is reported that no strong comments were made to the bill as such. On the other hand, on the committee's discussion questions and inquiries on aspects related to enterprise management have been presented, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, which were brought to the Commission's attention. The bill involved in the change in annual accounts. The observed observations, including as members of the committee, returned, including that there may be a tax burden for SMEs. It would need to be considered about the size of companies and the rules or the environment in which they live. It is very important for us to watch that this small and medium - sized company, even the one we own in Iceland, is the foundation of the economy as we know it. This company is keeping the wheels going. Most of the enterprises are considered to be a group of SMEs. While other sectores are often named as basic work practices, such as fishing and other things, we must not forget this large mass of companies in the small and medium-sized companies. An committee noted that the committee understood the views involved. ... totheadvertation of the Industrial Association. ................... it is necessary to re-evaluate IX. section of the bill on the annual accounts for the financial boundary for these enterprises. When we consider matters that seem small, we like to look at the big picture on the whole environment. Then it is important that we be aware of whether the decisions we make, even if they are small, have a positive or negative effect on the environment of our companies. Of course, a person might have submitted a synopsis proposal for the material. But I think it is very important for us here at the General Assembly to encourage legal and economic ministers to cross the environment of small and medium-sized enterprises with the aim of making them as easy as larger companies to care for the duties laid on them by law, including annual accounts, as well as individuals in business or small companies sit at the same level as the larger companies. It has been pointed out, including of the person who is alone with his company, that he cannot calculate certain things that a larger company can do like clothing money and such. Of course, it should not matter whether employees are one or more when it comes to trying to strengthen the enterprises. When we ask ourselves, " Is there any specific way in which I can further support my business, of course, that's when I wonder? ' Of course, it has something to do with what it says in the annual accounts of the enterprises. Do they give back profit? Do they yield wages to their owners, whether they are one, two, or more? Is it hard for them to make ends meet, and why? Is this about the environment we've created here at the Council? Is that the tax environment? Should we relieve taxes from the current business? I think so. I think we're supposed to be watching to lower taxes on a business. The question is, Should the home sit at the same table, and what are the expenses of the home? I think, for example. that it should have happened now, in the time of this epidemic we wrestled, to take e.g. by or at least reduces very much the value of food tax, since food purchase is a major factor in household management. This could have helped us to meet our homes and even encouraged us to buy more from things that would eventually have been able to support domestic production, so you can now try to see the overall picture. The bill may not be a major concern, but as a result, it is happy that it will be completed in the way it is. We have often dealt with the environment of an enterprise, which, of course, is linked to our being in the European Economic Area. It may clearly have to do with all the responsibilities and responsibilities that are laid down for us, including those related to us. published in the bill that this is a reference to the specific types of European Union that we have adopted. The majority of Icelandic employment life - it's not now possible to make a full list of it - especially those in the business and competitive environment, stressed that the European rules are introduced in a similar way in Iceland so that they can compete with foreign goods and services and are therefore important for this reflection because we believe it is normal. At the same time, other employment and other enterprises have tried to avoid, or in effect, the determination to adopt the European rules for the European Union, and I am mainly looking at e.g. The food sector, the European agriculture and the like. I don't think we've done enough to protect the speciality there is. Many of the small companies I'm discussing here are linked to agriculture. Most businesses in agriculture are very large, people run these companies, these are families, family farms, etc. I think we should examine how we can simplify and help to make the environment easier and better than today. I'm going to allow myself to mention that in Iceland, the number of people with fur farms has fallen tremendously. These are individuals, these are small companies who do not think very much. Although the export value of animals has ever reached more than a billion dollars, of course, it is important that the environment in which they live is normal. Now the price of the market remains low because of the global virus. The Icelandic government has not seen any reason to assist these companies. At least it hasn't happened to my eyes. Perhaps it's missed me. I know that a certain support will be provided, e.g. due to food costs. What you have to remember is that this business, this small business, this family business, which needs to be returned annuals and that their business is normal and okay, is at the same time solving major environmental issues for Icelanders. It turns to the point that the materials used in feed would otherwise have had to be destroyed, waste, or burned or exported. In fact, it is known that such materials have been exported, to Denmark, that reminds me, with all the costs and environmental degradation involved. I think when we look at these companies, all of them, the ones who have to return their annual accounts and SMEs, we have to try to examine the overall picture because that's something that matters to us all. The committee has agreed to make some changes in the bill, and it's fine. These are small changes, yet they are being explained and made even better. It seems to me that all the members of the committee signed the committee's opinion and, hence, the payment of the case that is possible, because it shows them that the General Assembly has met, at least. in this matter, in finding solutions and ways to handle them in a reasonable and natural way, so that there can be reasonably good reconciliation. That is what one would want to see in general the matter of Congress that we will handle even if it is no bigger than this. How important it is that we be careful! As you can make more peace with the members of the council that are taken care of here, the more likely they are to succeed, the more likely they will eventually return in a way that is not constantly being stirred by government. Even if this is a minor issue, we know that there are a number of opinions on small or large issues. There's something we must want to aim for, that the coverage and development of the situation will be similar to that of the small business committee that seems to have kept it well under control and probably generally does so with the issues in the area. I wanted to make it clear, Mr. President, as soon as I'm glad that the case is all alone, although not really a thing, that we don't forget that it's important to settle matters here and not forget to watch the big movie in terms of the small and medium-sized enterprises, which may be making certain defenses on the part of the industry's Association. It is easier for big companies, who even have much more money to play with a variety of counselors and animal experts on their side than are smaller ones. Therefore, particular attention should be paid to the possibility of lightening the rotation. to the annual accounts and to the other aspects of the enterprise. Now I hope to do so in my final meters that there will be further speculation on this matter and the subject related, i.e. that we begin to wonder about the environment that is so important that we are healthy and good to ourselves, as soon as we do not want it to be too burdensome. It is only natural for an enterprise to have information on its business and naturality that they pay their taxes and their duties. At the same time, we need to ask ourselves, " Where is it normal to have such limits when it comes to taxes and so on? ' It would have been, for example. fitly, Mr. President, to make a lot more relief than has been done on long - term insurance fees for those companies, since they will be in a different position to get along with the challenge of this virus that is attacking us. Even if we see some time at the end of the march, the struggle will be longer. It will take longer to reach the country after that, and that is what we have to cope with and aim for, not just when it comes to companies, but, of course, the homes. Homes earn their income because family members are employed and are thus able to feed their home. It is important that everyone is quite safe, as safe as possible, with their jobs. It doesn't matter whether we talk about someone who works at a big company or a person with a small company who needs to spend money on expensive special costs that might be reduced or avoided in some way and that's what I think we need to look at, Mr. President. This is one of the matters that we are doing at the end of this council that has been a little special for reasons common to all, and I hope that in the final meters, we will be able to focus on the subjects and issues that need to be completed and that we will not be caught in matters that can wait or be less important. Although the ambition of individual ministers or members of Congress may be great, it needs to be realistic. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u103	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for a fine speech. I'm always surprised at how often I agree. A senator when we do not discuss certain matters. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[The point is, not the State Church?]] Don't, yeah. Hv. A senator spoke only about the importance of the agricultural industry and its role for national and natural protection. I can, in itself, agree with that with what. Senator. We may disagree a little bit about the role of international treaties and international institutions when it comes to improving the interests of consumers in a direct way and those of consumers, say some people, just common names for the nation or people. You see, dealing with such problems as today's epidemic can be a complex thing to deal with only by strengthening an enterprise and thinking about it all the time. After growing up, the problem appears mainly in increasing unemployment, and I find it reasonable to ask: " How do consumers support us, how do we support our homes? Hv. A senator, in fact, only mentioned it in his talk, could he not also ask whether the support he received from his home was natural? Then I'm wondering why. A senator and maybe the Central Party in general on the issues we are discussing here today and only in general these days. In this case, there's another fine thing about increasing annual accounts in companies, probably cool business, and actually not a lot about checking. But I've felt a little vague about how we can adjust the balance between supporting consumers and other companies when we may disagree on the basis of our companies, for example. to the EEA or to the role of agriculture as an employer and, on the other hand, as a food manufacturer. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u104	V.E.G. President. It is important to see that international and international treaties are extremely important to Icelanders. I've been absolutely clear that we should do as much of it as possible. There's no question about that. However, I have allowed myself to say that for all agreements that we sign, whether it is the EEA Convention or anything else, there should be some debate about whether it evolved in the right direction, whether or not it changed in any way. Is he as favorable as he was before, needs to be revised in him or not? We should not be afraid to take that discussion. I'm not sure that the conclusion is that we should make some changes in the agreement, it may well be that the discussion confirms that it is good. But I've been very clear about it, too, that when it comes to business in Iceland, when it comes to business in business, I want to keep a special place where I like to work, where I'm mainly referring to the agriculture. I believe that we have - especially at the time we experience today, where there is even evidence of an association between drug abuse in food and the weight of this virus on certain groups of people - not to be afraid to say: We need to protect our agriculture, and we need to resist it or limit it as much as possible to infect it with some creep we could prevent. Farming is a business, but it is also a family business. In most cases, this is a small family business where the family has a job with the agriculture. Farming also carries a very rich obligation under law to see the rest of us who are not in agriculture for food or raw materials and such, at a price even determined by the state, not by the article itself. So, individuals, homes, and employment are talking to each other. [[The president calls.]] It is an obligation to both sides, but it can certainly be explained in some way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u105	A respectable president. I think maybe it was. A senator there touched a point that I have wondered deeply about lately, especially by the actions that have been decided to take in to cope with the economic impact of the epidemic. It's a business relationship and individual. Hv. A senator mentions a family company or a tiny company, which, for example, consists of such. of one person, into a family, something under dozens, or perhaps there. That's interesting to me. We're discussing, as in this case, how we're going to conduct a business management arrangement that we still recognize and, in fact, have a positive look, or at least I'm going to make a sound, too. A senator, being a family company, is actually a person developing an environment for his own work, and it is a romantic idea. I deeply appreciate the idea that each one is his own boss and is thus independent. But then I wondered, perhaps when it comes to these small companies, family companies, or private companies, being put on making small companies easier to work, making them a clear distinction between what is expected of them, compared with an enormous company that we would, in fact, never compare to families and individuals. There, I find a somewhat interesting difference in how a person operates in his everyday life and how the same person works or operates, and on and off, by creating an enterprise around his business. I wonder what. A senator shares this vision with me that when it comes to tiny companies, or family companies, such as this. A senator says, in effect, we should look for ways to make that work site easier for people to gain more independence, perhaps getting away from the question of whether to strengthen consumers rather than using the company form. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm thinking about it and I'm interested in what it is. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u106	A respectable president. We don't have enough trouble. A senator may agree, likely we both have become very romantic in view of his well - founded speech. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I agree with what. Senator. We are to watch small and medium - sized family companies and to try to make them feel better. In general, the environment of the industry should be, so it is not burdensome. It is normal to make more rigid demands on enterprises, which weigh billions of dollars than on small enterprises. At least there's a picture I can totally picture, and I actually need to look at it. I think we should try to encourage individuals to get into business, families to get together, because we know that heart and soul are often involved. Of course, then, the environment needs to be that way, not too high a cost. The comments from this bill are that I recall exactly that it may have to change only the financial or size limits for the smaller companies. This remains, of course, a business, i.e. secular work, then home, and family. On one hand, they are those who have both on their own and the rest who work for someone else without having a direct relationship with the company. Without employees working there, the job life would be of little value today, although it may be easier to get off the staff. Similarly, if we don't have a business, if people don't have a job working for people who have got good ideas, who have created good companies that are creating jobs and income, they would still be very unhappy. Of course, it has to be okay because it is at least very difficult to visualize, I don't see it at least, that we can have a career without the individual having much responsibility. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u107	Mr. President. Hv. As with the fact, it is very common for people to be involved in this business. In fact, it has been my persistent criticism that members of the Parliament do much more by talking about small and medium-sized enterprises than by making laws that benefit them. It came up in the Economic and Business Committee during the days that the annual bill is actually very few pages, but the international accounting standards are even thousands of pages. That's a pretty big stand for an SME. All companies have to be subject to this regardless of their size, and, of course, this will be more complex as companies are larger than not in any linear proportion to their growth. The foundation is always as small. And then you said "whipped." A senator of farmers. Now, the reality is that 90% of all companies in this country are small companies, often monotonous, often small farms or something like that, and all of them are actually meeting conditions for terms of annual rates old and not based on modern technology, not based on modern methodology and are very complex. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he sees in his hand any ways that we could go here at the Generals to try to make it easier for the smallest companies, especially with, e.g. Technology and similar. [[The president calls.]] This may not be the least because of what happened. A senator is with me on the future committee, which I find is a reason to try to put these issues together. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u108	V.E.G. President. First of all, I'd like to agree with what. Senator. We talk a lot about small and medium-sized companies without necessarily doing very much in fixing their environment. It is true that the largest part of an enterprise in Iceland belongs to that group, to companies belonging to families or to those who have started business, etc. Hv. A senator asked about technology. I agree with him that we should try to find ways to use the technology for the small companies and individuals to deliver all of it. I have to admit that I'm not quite in it, but now you wonder what information is already available in the system today, in the government computer systems. Is all these records needed, all this work that individuals do? Now, my friend will be one accountant, probably offended, but do all these accountants need to handle the small and medium-sized companies if more information can be offered automatically, or can you just press and post buttons on your computer? Actually, it's been a very few years since very many farmers had to start the download, then go out into the ocean, and then come home when it was over, but it's getting better. We also have, and maybe we should start there, looking to see if the regular work could not be simpler for these companies, and then moving the principle into modern times, into the future, using technology and software, and other things that definitely are, though I don't know, to make it work much faster. If only we look at that part of the agricultural field, it is automatic and mechanical. You get what's happening on your cell phone, so you must be able to bring it into the books as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u109	Mr. President. As a programmer, I have to say, it's an interesting and good point. The purple is automatic, but don't book it. When you think of things that are easy to self-activate, it is more likely that things that are very specific and that contain very regular data are much easier to automation than things that involve biological variables. It may reflect some sort of conservativeity beyond the way an account has been practiced. Today, international accounting standards are large and complex, and they need to be precise according to the facts. But you might think there might be some way to form this, just by obtaining the original data that the State already has access to. It could be pulled straight into the year's account templates, so it would not always be doing the same handwork over and over again. Now I've read some dozens of annual bills and even more. They're all the same. They all look the way it really is. They should look the same. Now I may just be flying with some depression, but I'd like to direct a question to the question. Senator: In view of the fact that most companies are the least, and in view of the fact that all companies have to produce a annual account, why not? A senator may wonder, " How much national losses will be because we don't have this in some way a self - efficient individual who is now? ' [[The president calls.]] What is the cost of all of this? He must be quite something.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u110	President. Pizzas are very romantic. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson was together through the agricultural bitch and we were together. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy was able to get together on the vision of the future and the romance in the automatic process that lies ahead. In this context, there are things we need to consider, too, and that is that the setting, hopefully just collective agreements, often taking into account some huge reality, large companies. Many times, you think, you're making a deal with your own interests, and it's affecting them, but it's not necessarily the best for the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are most of our business life. That's what I'm talking about. A senator wondered at the end, then there must be a lot of hours each day with those who have small companies who go into doing this in some manual way. Now I'm reviewing, it's been a few years since I had a business, I always felt -- though it was a lot of automation, like in this -- go way too much time on one hand-dothai. As it becomes more automatic and automatically flow through, the number of hours you have to spend on it is reduced. They can then use them to do something else in the company, to create something new, to set aside time and money for innovation. For an individual or a small family company with complicated accounting and management, someone has to take care of it. If you do not do so yourself, you need to buy a job that costs money. It would be possible to make a better future, to watch innovation and technology, and to observe all that is happening. I think that in the future all of this will be more automatic. [[The president calls.]] It's just a question of whether we can make a quick move in some way, maybe take a stand in Iceland and be in front of a group.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u111	President. I just sent this letter to a professional health - care committee about two cases that I recently mentioned about the President's meeting board at the beginning of a meeting. The case was resolved, but something else is salted because it had violated a constitution if it had been run through. We know that because we had a meeting with the Board of Directors. It was to be run through. Now it's time to run another case through as President's bill. We, a quarter of the Committee, asked for a meeting of management experts on Wednesday. According to Congress, the chairman of the Committee is expected to accept it within three days. She's calling someone else today. We prayed for Margrét Einarsdóttir, or Kristín Haraldsdóttir, to come and protect us from being driven through a case that had violated the Constitution. We wished to get these experts, and possibly Björg Thorarensen, to keep track of the Constitution king in the case of a minister of salmon and trout fishing, since the experts who came in said they needed to have a closer look at that branch. They're coming. [[The president calls.]] The committee has been sent a letter, this affidavit, which is the norm of Congress. I mentioned this to the head of a professional committee, Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney, right outside the office, and I told her I was coming here to let the whole nation know about this. [[The president calls.]] She said: " Let's take a look at this. So that's what you're looking at. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u112	A respectable president. I'm going to talk about the President's conference board, i.e. The highest custom. The general president, whom I have at times felt was a bit up - to - date. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It's almost an all-star gift from the highest. A president at the end of the discussion. This discussion was now just two stars, and the other discussion was quite by then and only one star is given. He's about to make such comments as if he thinks people have any business in this chair when they think they have business in him and I have to say I give them the highest order. President not many stars. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u113	The president asks why. Councilmen please show respect for the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u114	A respectable president. In view of what happened. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson mentioned earlier, regarding the constitution of two cases. The employment board, I cannot help but remind the Generals that the laws we approve here are in accordance with the constitution. Why is there reason to mention that? Yes, it is because of a position like the one mentioned earlier and because of what happened. A senator has to come here in a pita to make a special announcement that if he does, he will be required. It is, in my opinion, a complete personal problem at the General Assembly that when it comes to a constitution, there is not enough speculation and speculation. We're supposed to have our cases totally bulletproof in this regard. [[The president calls.]] I know that there's been a mistake, and I think it's because of a carelessness of it, and a certain atheism of, that there may be something in the explanation of the Constitutional harmony. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u115	President. I just want to reiterate that these are two cases that come from the members of the Independence Party, one from a travel minister. It was to be run through. There was not even to be a discussion process, which is almost always done in the General Assembly. A case will take at least two weeks, minimum one. No, it wasn't supposed to be a review procedure and it was to be run through. It was just stopped because the board of administration specialists came before the committee to meet our demands in our smaller section, pointing out that although the Minister and Ministry who wrote the bill and transferred it, they did not pass the constitution. It would have taken away the rights of property, and it would have taken people out of it without breaking 72rd. The constitution must first try every other way. It wasn't done. This is what we call to. I'd like to mention something else, too. It seems that there has to be a change in proposal to take out this Constitutional feature that is possible there and to install a completely new arrangement that is a new language. Those who came before the committee say it's a new case. [[The president calls.]] Of course, special attention should be given to the Constitution as well as to whether it will simply pass the council, to transform the case in its affairs without presenting it again. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm gonna go check it out now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u116	A respectable president. I would like to agree with those who have spoken of this practice on committees that, of course, are very special, especially in view of the fact that at the same time, the greater part is trying to get the position of government to sit down and discuss the end of the council. I agree with what. paritaprevir Andri Thorsson's divinity that it's inappropriate for the President to give up some stars here. There are others who do. The voters eventually rate members of Congress. It can remain a job or a relapse. It's not a president or someone else who decides. I'd like to take this opportunity and put it right here, tops. In view of earlier words by the president of the General Assembly, comments were made at a meeting of the council groups on the program. [[Up front.]] First, comments were made to the amount of time to use during a discussion today. Second, comments were made that a case that may be the most urgent now, the housing bill for social and child - care minister, would be placed at the end of the program. Several comments were made in the meeting. [[The president calls.]] It wasn't an unremarkable meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u117	A respectable president. I'm here a second time to discuss the President's conference board. As in the first time, I'm going to take a little deliberation into that custom. After a discussion with some comment about the need for this discussion, it was not surprising or so forth. Well, then he's got something special, the highest. President, comment on the fact that members of the council use the document and this team to bring up unsolved issues and debates within committees, where there may be a host of issues. Congress officials have taken advantage of this scene to present them with opinions and issues before the United States. [[The president calls.]] I believe it is a great privilege for members of Congress to use this program to do such things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u118	A respectable president. A discussion of the meeting board of presidents has been used repeatedly in a very broad sense. This is a normal end to the President's conference board is a very broad range of authority, including committees and other areas, e.g. has often been discussed on ethical issues here. Like what? paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson mentioned them as the final election. I'd like to mention it anyway, because it's really important, that, in spite of the election, they're not an excuse, and they get mad or anything like that, for whatever the senators or ministers do. That a minister can file a report under a chair and hide it over the election - and there were elections where everyone knew about it, and now it's just in the court of voters and a new agency -- doesn't excuse error, it doesn't. [[The president calls.]] Let us keep that in mind too.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u119	A respectable president. I also cut it as a dog. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson noted that the president of the council considered earlier during discussions that there were no special comments at a meeting yesterday on the program. Special notes, he said. I would take it, especially because it's foreign for the council president to put things into words so that it's very easy to misunderstand them if they're asked. This is sometimes called outbacks and other things. Now I don't know exactly what the difference is between a comment and a special comment, but I think it's very special of a respectable president who makes it hard to trust what they're saying. In some way, it must always be fit, and it must be documented by a person's grasp of words. The President is in perfect harmony with his own understanding. This is an independent problem here at the council, a respectable president, and I wish the president would abandon this habit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u120	Mr. President. I'm gonna start a very unlikely place and then I'm gonna try to link this up. I'm going to start with a certain hypothesis, which is that the size-separation of an enterprise is fine and even desirable, but should not be necessary for employment participation. In this context, the reason why I think it is worth discussing is that the size of the enterprise actually turns toward two different factors, one of the advantages of a business to make a market and to compete with other enterprises, which, of course, is what they are supposed to do in a free market system, and one of their duties to the State and the law. Then comes what we talked about earlier, what we did. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, the law requires that all companies do certain things, e.g. taxes, annual bills, return a variety of taxes, credit taxes, etc. All these factors come with some kind of work, and that's just fine. It is normal for us to make the demands, but we may have to some extent consider the amount of work that comes with each requirement and whether this work will be related to the size of the companies involved. I mentioned earlier, and it was shown at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee during the days, that the annual bill in Iceland is not long. It is not complicated that way, but there are several thousand pages of international accounting. This is the kind of company, no matter how small or large they are, all of us need to be able to fulfill these items. Of course, the annual accounts for larger companies will be larger, but the minimum value for dictators may be on some five to ten pages, while annual accounts for the world's largest companies may be nearly 100 and 200 pages in some cases. If so, consider the purpose of annual accounts. Of course, they are a means by which both shareholders and others can see how the company is doing but also a way to prevent cheating. These are the requirements we make for an enterprise because we want things to be right. It is not quite easy to give a discount on the basis of size and even contrary. If such discounts were available, it would be possible for an enterprise even to engage in some form of ownership, as we see, for example. Sometimes in the fishing industry, to make sure that each unity does not exceed a specific size, and it remains to be played on relationships in a way that does not work together. It is well - known, even the taxpayers and other sources are particularly relevant to companies who are able to find ways to get the best accounts in this way. This is just one example of how size-separation is not only a more inexpensive product unit, but also of having the means to hire better tax lawyers and better accountants and accountants who have knowledge not only of how to do things well but also in some case, and without my accusing of anyone but we know that it is known, to find ways to do things in the cheapest way for the company. There is another type of size-separation that actually leads to the setting up of the law around the annual accounts and the tax of companies and others. I'm not sure it can be fixed. At any rate, it would require someone who is considerably better at this than I am to offer suggestions on how to fix it. But I feel that, when we talk about these things in the modern world, some kind of guide to a possible solution, it is that most annual accounts of the largest companies are exactly the same in their installations, in which parts are listed, really, except the numbers. Of course, there are small differences, but in any case, most of them are the same. It has been reported in a financial and business committee that there are several critical aspects of the Icelandic implementation of these laws. The need to take IV has been discussed. section of the year bill for a complete review. Similarly, the viewing system has been found to be critical and out - of - control. It has been said, and I don't know exactly how far it goes, that the annual accounts of the Icelandic comrades are often so poor in the sense of international accounting standards that some international accountants refuse to accept them, which I find very interesting. Then you can look at the reviews of various people and include the following: came a good review from the Industrial Association that discussed the other side of this, which is that, according to what we demand, we make things harder for the smaller companies and we're going to be in conflict, Mr. President. My goal in this talk is to point out, perhaps trying to encourage us to accept the existence of such conflicting factors and to resolve them in some way. She's real and she's important. There is much talk about looking at the size limit. A former energy chief once criticized politicians for putting everything in step - by - step because they did not understand how to build linear growth or from the more complex falls into law. We know exactly what's gonna happen. When steps are taken, everyone will be packed just below the step and as soon as they get up above it, trying to run to the next step because they prefer not to cross the line, and they are even very creative to find ways to avoid getting up to the next level unless it is particularly desirable. But technology exists. International accounting standards are designed by people who are accurate and who understand the importance of keeping things accurate. I, as a programmer, feel a lot with these people. I have great respect for accountants because they understand accuracy and are accustomed to persuade people to be precise in a way that may not be natural. I often find it hard enough to be precise when dealing with computers, so I can imagine how difficult it can be. But since the standards are so accurate, it should be possible, and expected not too much of it, that at least a large amount of automation. We discussed earlier, of course, that there are a lot of the data available on the basis of annual accounts, not to mention tax returns and so on, in public databases. We know that with a powerful campaign probably a decade ago, the tax reports were largely self-involved and you wonder if there are no opportunities for self - efficiency in annual accounts that will result in increased electronic exchanges that could be used in this context. Of course, it is important that global standards are fully electricalized, that their electronic shape is widespread, and that people take advantage of the best possible possibilities. Of course, companies will come up that make accounting software and other things that can make the complex part, i.e. building the software, but we may need to adjust the law to the fact that computers are capable of reviewing their annual accounts, bug testing, and finding false records and other microseconds. If a rule could be created that allows small companies to do so within certain boundaries, it might not be necessary to have the rating system as it is today. In fact, we could reduce the need for revision, unless in some exceptional circumstances, by testing all annual accounts in a few microseconds, as well as by modern technology, and even making comparisons between enterprises which would even reveal whether there were any further tricks about, e.g. hidden property, some interaction, or anything else. If so, it is extremely easy to fix much of what is wrong with government on tax collections, etc. All of this is possible because the data are recorded electronicly and the standards are explained. But two things are missing to make it work. The second factor is that the accounting systems speak a common language and express themselves in a way that can be compared between systems and other things, and we rely on international standards for electricalization and the extension of other factors. But the other is that there will be legal authority that will make it possible to do so in that way. Of course, there are many matters of opinion. Many people are not too impressed with the idea that the State has such deep insight into business. They even consider business business to be some kind of personal protection. Although companies are law persons, they are not persons in the biological sense that we put in the concept of personal protection. Still, some feel that an enterprise should have enough space to hide its tracks. Based on business secrets and other concerns, some of them may be able to meet those ideas. I'm not saying that we should necessarily have 100% transparency in everything an enterprise does, but in the sense that we make the demand for business translucency today, in order to avoid tax gains and other things, we should at least be able to use the translucency automatically to reduce the costs in these companies, to the 90% small enterprises in most European countries as examples and least in Iceland, and in these 7% of the enterprises represented in those European countries. I think the ratio is even higher here because large companies in Iceland are very few. By doing so, we remind them of the cost and the possibility of preventing behavior that we have most of us have agreed against. I know I went a little wide, but I like this case. But that was why I began to think about how we should look at the continuation of annual accounts in such size-separations, to ensure the need for corporate transparency, that corporate policy is honest and that the rules are working, not only for the largest companies that can afford the best and best tax lawmakers, but also for all the small enterprises that are doing very cool things and in general, trying to prevent the misuse of corporate schemes as far as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u121	A respectable president. Magnússon, a 17th - century manuscript collector, said: "It so happens in the world that some people are helping theoribus, while others seek to extort them of the same triobus and have something to do with them. We've been telling the truth that he's been talking about secretaries and even talking about some sort of master reader, and this has been a kind of master reader, but in fact, he was talking about accountants and accountants' values. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy very much for her rich, good speech. I would like to ask if he believes that we need to increase the demand for accounting or if we need to reduce it or if we may need to set the size requirements, i.e. reduces the requirements for small parties at market but tightens them in larger and more powerful companies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u122	Mr. President. Hv. The senator referred to these excellent words in the Árni Magnússon. Isn't the word "missy" merely a substitute? Maybe an error is just what it's about a little bit. Errors are always made when collecting data. We try to avoid them and try to set rules around the outside in order to avoid them. The point of my speech was that we should not necessarily give small companies a discount. That is exactly what we need to harden them in many cases because there are so many errors and many are deliberately made. But we also need to be very diligent in identifying ways that self - efficiency builds up data and their processing so as to reduce the cost so that size-separation is not an essential market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. In other words, we need to pay the streets of those who need it and use this along with the cohesion of the bills, and we need to avoid misuse. In some ways, it may go in different directions. I'd like to follow by pointing a question to why. A senator who I know is well involved in these matters and has studied them: Is the feeling I have that after a crash, there has been a better change in account and billing, and it is less important that the accountants even engage in activities that may be considered morally low, possibly even in some sense a law? Is that less true after a crash than was it in the years before?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u124	Mr. President. Yeah, I think the core is that technology gives and technology takes over. Here, technology may have given us an opportunity to keep our eyes on things more closely and to do them better. It also replaces people with the possibility of cheating if we make the right arrangements. It's just a good thing, I think. It is true that the EU copy principle, perhaps mainly regarding, e.g. Retreatment of bank institutions, loan institutions and other sources that we are going to discuss later today and in the present, have improved the status of accounting and reexamination and good business practices throughout Europe. In fact, similar things took place much more after the 2008 collapse. These are all positive things, and I've been very happy to see many such cases as BRD and MIFID II and others go through the council in recent years. [[The president calls.]] It's not over yet. We have a long way to go, even, but it's all coming.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u125	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for an interesting talk and particularly what he said about the future and what can happen in all this self - activity and that we need to be less concerned about these matters when they sit in front of us, when we should return and so on. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether it is simply inside the picture to change this so that an enterprise, and possibly one may be divided into a group, gives this information much less than today, e.g. every few years. The authorities might then have more permission or right to take credit testing and something like that. A company may provide annual bills every three years or something, or whatever you think of them. If the terms fall down with greater self-activity, it will, of course, help companies to understand this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u126	Mr. President. That's an interesting question. I think the answer is really: No, we shouldn't return less often, but much more often, even several times per second, because computers can do it for us, and the books are primarily going through computers. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Information flow should be automatic and free and should really be limited only by the speed of light. This submission plays a role in the authorities, but also in the shareholders of the enterprise. Of course, when praying for them, the shareholders must be able to get good reports. Often there have been problems with constructions where e.g. Business owners in Iceland try to report CCC reports on possessions abroad, but cannot, for example, because, for example, they can't do it because they can't. In Britain the annual reports of an enterprise are submitted according to the submission of tax returns. There will be a certain composition. Why can't we have it the same way? I really want to talk about the hugmynd of Stafford Beers, who wrote a lot about how to automation the entire economy, and who made interesting experiments on it in Chile, 1970,1973. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u127	V.E.G. President. I have to say, I think that's what. A senator has tested me there with his opponent. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Of course, you're right. In the near future, there will be an even greater speed and self - efficiency in all of this. It can be observed day by day, actually. Yet, you wonder if there is a need for the complex accounts that humans provide each year. Then I think we'll also just have to, it's my opinion, to distinguish between large companies that have many shareholders, complex accounts and holdings and the small companies we talked about so romantic earlier today that they have relatively small dimensions and little business but still have to give up on what everyone else has to pay. This may be done less often, especially since the information flow is very fast and good. This can now be cleaned up a little like the chicken and the egg. But I think we should make good use of technology, I totally agree with that in the process, but I think it's all right to wonder about the other thing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u128	Mr. President. Of course, the nature of the enterprises will have considerable influence. It is obvious that small enterprises with small possessions and small functions, or relatively simple, are in a very different position, in order to deliver things automatically and in a simple way, but e.g. A giant international company that has a subsidiary in many countries and makes up very complex accounts. Finally, it should be possible to automate all of it. In an effort to self-activate information flow in the economy there, I mentioned earlier to Stafford Beer, president of Chile at his time. One thing he was always dealing with was that the quality of the information was always the point that all of it fell on. If the standards are good enough, it should not matter to itself that some companies have only weaker outdoors because the information generally becomes good enough to describe the entire economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u129	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for a fancy speech. The Senator got involved in SMEs and as much modern technology as does computers and such. I was also trying to understand what was really the subject of the bill, and I would like to ask the senator a little about it. I may come into it better in the second answer than I might. For example, is there only a chance that a senator can make good use of the technology in terms of annual accounts and so forth? It's expensive to buy the help available today for a small company, I know it by myself.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u130	Mr. President. The matter in itself is not quite complicated. This is mainly a technical matter that deals with what happens, e.g. where companies are under bankrupt therapy, how to arrange a case with them, to form in case they run out, and how to follow up companies with annual bills and other matters if they have not returned them. So it's just technical correction, and that's the message I sent to my council when we were talking about it, that it's technical correction and the good stuff. My talk may have been more about looking at the subject in a larger context and saying: "Why don't we go further into fixing bigger system problems in the company's information? Some of it is only natural and reasonable to bring time, but others may need a little encouragement to discuss it. That's why I'm urging you to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u131	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm beginning to realize that it's a bit technical. The senator's speech was of ideas, in order to expand the discussion. That's a good payback because it is, as I entered my first talk, very expensive for a small company to give them all due to the fact that most people cannot do it themselves and have to buy a job. She is an animal, and therefore, when the senator gave this speech to me, he saw that we could use much more electronic information today. We need, then, to resolve as senators to offer suggestions on this subject. Don't the senator agree with me on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u132	Mr. President. In 2017, countries in Iceland returned 39,464. If, as we have talked about, we are likely to find out that some 97-60% of these enterprises are what you call small and medium-sized enterprises, in fact, can be determined that there are, we should say, 37,000How38,000 agencies that are being submitted in a relatively complex way, in ways that should be possible to improve. We know that this can be self - induced. We also know that divorce improved according to law change 2016, which undertook the law of late due or poorly. Why must the woodwork always be added instead of finding ways to simplify it? That may be the point.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u133	Mr. President. Thank you. The speaker's talk and the pleasure of listening to it. It's obvious. A senator has a good knowledge of the matter. What I wanted to review is this unbreakable connection, so to speak, between annual accounts and accountants. We know that accountants play a vital role, they review the books of registered enterprises, and they give their opinion on annual accounts and whether they will make a clear picture of partners working together. It is one of the main tools used when investors are evaluating companies and investments related to it. That's the most important thing in the year - to - year bills, so the role of accountants is extremely important and essential, to me, to discuss it a little in connection with this matter. What I wanted to ask you. A senator is about whether he believes that monitoring the work of accountants is sufficiently efficient, whether or not we need to improve in these activities because it is a very important part of business management in terms of annual accounts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u134	Mr. President. In effect, the question is, Who will reconsider the accountants? That's a good question. We discussed this before, it was a matter of Congress, I think, a year ago that took a little action and was making it right. I have to admit that I can't remember every point of that matter, but it's clear that monitoring of the accountant's work is important and that they have been very diligent in asking for it in a natural way. One thing that happens as things become more electronic and automatic is that the jobs of accountants become easier, both those who practice their own reviews and those who monitor them and monitor their activities. Need to improve surveillance? The truth is, I don't know it well enough. But I think that if we could at least make it easier for us to do our job well, it would benefit everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u135	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. At the collapse, the financial collapse, many financial companies went bankrupt soon after receiving the unregistered visa of accountants. I think there are the key findings of the economic crisis and the recovery of accountants that they did not meet their standards. Therefore, in view of this matter, I may want to think about it, how. A senator envisions that we really learn from that experience. Now we are in a state of economic crisis and a severe crisis, a great limp on a wealth of money. How can we earn up the reputation we experienced during the economic collapse, including ours? because of the arrival of accountants? [[The president calls.]] They were trusted, but they did not live up to it. How can we learn from this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u136	Mr. President. I traced it earlier that the European Union's postmortem on financial markets did very much to learn from and correct these mistakes. I've been talking about it ever since I went to the council that we should speed up the process most and finish its operation. That would carry us pretty far on this one. Then it's only natural that we have extremely unfunded surveillance agencies in Iceland, and their fine funding will do much to improve the credibility of our institutions. But to some extent, we must view the system as a whole. It is not just that bank accountants were doing their jobs badly before a crash, although it is possible for some to have done so and even some in a very questionable way. The fact is, we know of system-based defects in how the banking system itself is built up, how the tax system and what others are built up, and in the fundamental ideas that provide all that is fundamentally harmful, and we know that it will cause collapse, perhaps not on a regular basis, but very often. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u137	Mr. President. Now the clock is 20 minutes to 4 on Friday, and if I've been right, there's only six meetings left on schedule. But there are many cases, and if I understand that, if I do not understand it, it would be a very serious matter to the management board. I'd like to ask the president if he doesn't think it's time to sit down in order to decide how to complete this spring council, which is now well into the summer. How should we use the remaining six days? What big issue do directors put first? It is important for us in our position of government to know so that we may be able to set down most of our years in order to get them to the full.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u138	A respectable president. This is not the first time asked why the program is the way it is, but I have not yet received the public explanation why the last issue on the program, housing, mortgage, is the last subject on the agenda. I think I know why it's last on the program. That's because the President has, in some way, been more ethic than that, but it's not better to get it done, to get through. There seems to be no disagreement in the General Assembly that there is a case that should be completed as soon as possible, which has a direct bearing on the serious situation that has developed in the community regarding employment agreements. It would be fine, then, if we were to develop a work ethic at the General Assembly that the president explained why he would choose to make a case last on a program that seems to agree completely that the most important matters are on the agenda. Why is this not the first thing to do? I think I know the real explanation, but I'd love to hear the official and see if it's not the same. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u139	A respectable president. About exactly the same thing, 16 cases on schedule, housing, share loans. There was a complaint at the beginning of a meeting, and the president pointed out that this was a very important matter. It's been two days since the president of VR said that the basis for the biographer contract was smiling, including because this case had not been resolved. When it comes up here two days later, you'd think it would be more important at the council to put it on the agenda and on the committee for review, etc., to see if it actually goes through the contracts made. We've heard of the fact that the case has been fixed in the Ministry of Financial Changes, based on the criteria for the biographies and how it was originally submitted by the unions. [[The president calls.]] Winning this matter is extremely important as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u140	A respectable president. I'd like to say that, inside, at least... One committee I work in has been a good cooperation and a success of cooperation between government and government. That's where I'm pointing to what. A top-of-the-art educational committee where problems like this have not occurred. Other committees seem to be employed by some kind of rule, where the Law seems to rule the more important things, the more urgent the matter is, the later the outcome will be and the less time the council will have to win the case. This is very contrary, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u141	Mr. President. For to my delight, when I sat down in my seat after the last speech, I saw that the president has called in the council members for a meeting at the hour. 4. It's a pleasure, and I hope there's a successful meeting. But because people are talking about why they're putting the housing issues on the last schedule and people think that there's something more efficient underneath, I honestly thought when I saw the program from the President: Yes, this case is clearly not the priority for the government. That's the last part of the program. Of course, if it had priority, it would be first. I simply interpreted it so that the government did not stress the housing issue that ASI is calling and is one of the biographies. But there it is. It's not a government priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u142	V.E.G. President. I come up here like the rest of us. Councilmen before me in the President's conference board to call on the 926th matter of housing, sharing loans - an interesting matter that would need to be addressed as soon as it was mentioned that the biographies play in there - get earlier on schedule today, only very soon. As I mentioned in a talk earlier, it is presented in 795, on the authority to establish an official branch of the construction of transport infrastructure in the capital area, a considerable length of the tenets, and it could extend, I could believe. I suggest that the premises be set up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u143	Mr. President. I would like to call back from this chair, since presidents and senators sit down and discuss the matter, that the program is determined in a reasonably good conversation and cooperation between all groups. It is a pleasure to have the president of the Generals called in in ten minutes. But it's a certain game here, that everybody sees, some classic movie contest that we've all condemned, whether we're in smaller parts or more. Now let's just get out of these tire marks, out of those holes, and negotiate what goes through and what cases need extra work. We're a small community, and we don't have to be in this conflicting bitch who always flares up twice a year, as we've been told here. We can get along much better, but both groups need to take one another's account, and now the ball is a little bit in the board of directors' section. [[The president calls.]] We in the smaller part have been very effective in accepting all the proposals offered by the government in the case of Covid, but it has not done the same with our proposals. [[The president calls.]] Why don't we turn back and get along with an acceptable assembly, where everyone can take a stand with pride?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u144	A respectable president. We're back in the President's conference board, although this is a case of No. 3 on the annual bill program with the committee opinion that each member of the Committee will sign. Yet, there are a number of people on the rosary, and now there is a great need to discuss this big issue. I think, in some way, all issues on the program are important. Here is one case that I eagerly look forward to as a law, and that is the matter of Krishna, the sceptres and innovations, and lastly the 15th case on a program that I really hope we can do very soon. But there is one group at a council that has announced a filibuster on that very matter, the central Party, who definitely does not want to see a city line. I thought that this was a general support for this important project, and it is important that we establish this share and that it is useful so that our rural communities can work with us and the union between Congress and rural society in the capital area on real transport improvements in the capital area. I'd like to encourage you. Councilmen who have established a rosary to support the Middle Class seminars on the city line to revise their minds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u145	A respectable president. Here I have heard many dramatic talks on the billing of the year, and I have become even so familiar with my annual accounts and accounts that I trust in a talk on this subject, if so an opportunity to observe. This may sound like a threat, but I'm not going to go further into it. The key point is this: We should not be getting into this fight, although it is indeed a temptation to do so. Clearly, the more important things, such as the point, are involved. paritaprevir Butthresis Haraldsdóttir reminded us, here are important issues, are set up on the back, and the time pressure is made to smuggle in some cases that we in the government stand don't feel are ready to enter the chamber. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u146	President wants to point them out. Congress officials say that he has become quite an adult and has difficulty getting up every minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u147	A respectable president. I can talk for more than one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u148	Hv. A senator just doesn't have any more time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u149	Whatever it is. paritaprevir Of course, the characteristic of the problem that the Allied has had for a long time was the case with the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir. He is that it is so impossible, it is totally out in the common mind of the Generals that it is simply surmounted by the content of each case, no matter where it comes from, and no matter what political interest is behind the trial itself, that there has been the custom, the strange and strange and, in my opinion, the harmful tradition of making a written agreement specifically about which cases are being given full treatment at the council and who is not. I think that whenever people first discover how this works, whether they are viewers or senators themselves, they must be quite shocked. There's nothing demeaning about how this works. However, the reason is that people use their power in a way that is indiscriminate to the trial. As soon as it is adjusted in some way, there is no need to set up the situation today. [[The president calls.]] It's not much more complicated than that, but most of the time it is powered. It is the responsibility of the greater part to change that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u150	A respectable president. There was an interesting discussion earlier on a matter of speech, but it was not exactly accurate. Not even the Central Class's Council on the City Lines has yet to approach the debate. Although they are completely out of the world with regard to the evidence they use, I think they really believe them. Yet, it is possible to have a heartfelt faith without its backing. Faith in a higher power, e.g. one example. The problem we face here is just the majority of the authority we've been talking about today. The majority simply have all the power and can use it to communicate. The only thing that a lesser part can do is go to this talk chair and contradict it when it is maligned. Yes, it has been. In some way, being on the platform may be interpreted as having a minor power, i.e. I'm gonna keep it quiet in some way. [[The president calls.]] But we are far from there. [[The president calls.]] I am, for example. with a half-priced annual talk that discusses them in the context of public finances and accounts due to the importance of this. [[The president calls.]] But in general, I have to do it later. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u151	A respectable president. We'll probably talk about the third time today about the President's conference board. This is a shock that is peculiar, but not unknown, on a day in which the program is firmly planned and we are still discussing the important issue of annual accounts. It's a slow train this morning. When it came to the balance of annual accounts, we discussed a second issue. took the whole discussion within ten minutes, I think. I'd like to let myself join my partner. paritaprevir Álán Ágúst Águstsson, Ágústsson, said that we should try to move from this scene where conflict is typical. We need to complete our assembly with a fine blow, an important matter to await. We need to emphasize the importance of bringing the most important issues for the benefit of the public through the Senate before the end of the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u152	Mr. President. I find the fact very interesting that today the population of Iceland is born on earth. Tomorrow, that number is born again, and day after day. I present this fact to show that we are not millions of people here. We are not a tens of millions of people who have many and complex interests. We are a small society, one of the smallest civilizations known among nations. That's why I'm bored with these campaigns that we're going back and forth. He doesn't have to. He won't return anything. We know that to bring the council together in the end, it is written. Why, then, is it not merely written now? Why are we playing this game whether we are in a position of government or not to create some position of agreement? All of us are so masked that we are not deceiving anyone but ourselves. But to negotiate, you have to be agreed on both sides. The smaller portion is ready to negotiate, but it does not seem to be at the end of the section. [[The president calls.]] Come to the table, solve these matters. Of course, not everything goes through. The vast majority of the items go through, but please show more respect for the arrangement and legislation than this atmosphere produces. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u153	A respectable president. It's like whisk. Tenth. South York, a Smári Mccarthy, said to the Porta Parliamentary Party in its time too: It's a technical matter that's fine, a tool to get companies to return their annual bills at the scheduled time with some kind of merciful decision so that they can be given the opportunity to improve in case of action. But the question can also be asked: Why do these laws of mercy have to be returned, if that is, of course, the annual bill and the relevant evidence that it is? It's not just because people who run a business don't want to give up that information. Neither is it because there is something to hide in this information, general. This is not because these people do not want it. I would guess that the most common thing is that they simply don't have time for it, and not even knowing it, but they need help from town to provide this information, i.e. A year's bills. For the voters, it is ocially obligatory that the one or the one running the company give away all kinds of information for all kinds of purposes. Some information is a matter of simple transparency, e.g. Their possession, or like it. Other data suggest that taxation can be done properly, such as information on property, income, costs and the like, and no doubt additional information in order to do various analyses, say a number of companies, or develop a lot of companies, or anything. It's all good and good. Your objective is positive. We need taxes, we need transparency, and we need to be able to identify the economy and the business in it and the activities that take place there, etc., for various reasons. But what I wonder, when I read bills like this, is, " What else can we do to lose our lives? ' What else can you do but threaten companies to return their annual bills at the right time? The answer is very obvious. It's making it easier to return a year's bill. This may not be the best time to abuse the authorities because it has developed in this way. There is a phenomenon called the Button, which helps small companies who meet the requirements for simple submission of annual accounts according to the other procedure. Yet, it is relatively complicated for a person who has too much to do. You see, business and employment are the kind of people who specialize in a variety of things. Some people build walls, other people program, still other people are in law. People do all kinds of things, and they are very few to hear the industry that is not practiced to some extent by dictators or very small companies who want to specialize in the particular industry. But it is always the underlying requirement, my opinion, that every company, whether an employee or a 100,000, has some basic knowledge of what is commonly called the writer's language. We at the General Assembly generally do not call this a mere paperwork, not accountants, tax experts, or lawyers who work with it. This is not writing in the sense that it is negative, but for non-in this business, it is doing something else, and it is not interested in content and the like around taxes and annual accounts, it is paperwork and nothing else. When we try to simplify this, we do not just do them a favor; rather, we, from their point of view, are reducing the quality of the written language. We are to reduce writing ability or what we would like to call this phenomenon, which is the obligation to have things recorded, put in order and so on. I won't belittle it. It's very important, and that's why we're discussing this bill and I'm supporting it. It's a nice bill. However, there is a lot else that can be done to ° ° to reduce the need for this so - called paperwork. I mean, there's a bad opportunity for that kind of thing, really, really bad. No doubt the reasons are complex. I'm sure they exist in two, three dimensions. I can name one thing that I've personally stumbled upon as a programmer through the years. This is how expertise in various fields is in a community far different from the expertise required to simplify the process. Accounting and software are examples of two worlds of expertise that are extremely small, and such worlds abound. I could name the Generals and software. I would like to start by commending the Generals Department and agencies who are involved in publishing the data of the Generals because they are in many ways very good. However, we in general have failed to make good use of this technology to the extent possible. This is because the work being done here is very different from the work that is involved in using software to do those tasks. It really requires individuals, or industry, some kind of industry, who have knowledge of both. This is a access to software and software solutions and the technical sector in general. There is a lack of connection between the software industry itself and the work involved. Actually, it's a very typical problem. There is in itself no solution to anything but to continue trying, for all of this means yes in the right direction. Authorities are to be commended for making a great deal of progress in terms of taxes and in terms of annual accounts and such. All I'm saying is, opportunities are not used, including for this reason. But I think a more serious problem is that the rules that are set around the so - called paperwork - I'm going to let myself call them "it" to talk the same way as those in the community - are out of touch with software. They are based on customs that have developed throughout history, rules that have developed in all other things than the simple design, evolution to prevent tax fraud as an example, or to ensure that dues are the same between countries or in different industry or so on. It's just a completely different basis than the one behind using software technology to simplify regulations and reduce paperwork. For that reason, we also need to consider how to make things easier for people. In itself, we do not resolve this at the General Assembly, but we here need to understand how we approach the problem. That means, for example. To figure out where the opportunities are. I think they're very widely available and highly malnourished. Likewise, we need to discern when we have established rules or because of costs or problems that hinder computer technology. I can mention an example in which the cost or some such obstacle makes it not only difficult to use computer technology to solve the problem or to create something new that saves all time and work but, rather, computer technology is actually used to prevent it from being used to simplify things. Consider an example. When people get an account to their homes in paper form. they may wonder: " It would be better to have it in computerized form. It enters the home bank, enters electronic documents, finds its accounts, and is able to take down the numbers and so on. This, however, is relatively primitive because there are no standards for how these accounts appear. They look quite different for one company than another. However, this trend allows viewing electronic documents at home banks rather than on paper through the hatches; they can be collected and processed somehow. But recently, some companies have taken up the habit, unfortunately, not to send accounts and wires just for sending accounts to their clients, but to say, "You should only sign into the company's website with an Is key or electronic ID and find your accounts there and lay them down, save them on the computer, and put in some folder, and so on the streets. In my opinion, handling paper is much closer than getting the document into electronic documents at home. This is done because of cost, because of an obstacle that I thought would have to fix. It's just an example. This isn't the most serious problem in the business. This is just one example of how rules and costs and obstacles can prevent a solution because they do not answer the cost to the person who has to pay or work to overcome something. Then there are solutions that I find personally intolerable and, indeed, those books I've talked to on this subject, they're generally very irritated about all of this, normal. It'll set things straight. It'll take time. Another thing that is also very common and is often seen in annual accounts that are made with the aforementioned Button, which is a simpler way to create annual accounts, is that behind the overexploitably many layers of work that include using a computer that is not thinking about the data and nature of the data and how they are best published and how they are best new, it is asked: "How has this been over the years? " Yes, it's been returned to paper. That's a way of putting the paper in the computer. Create some PDF document that looks like a page and can certainly print out, but it's also basically the only user. There's probably a way to print things out, and there's no way, so there's probably a way to get PDF files. It's just very good. But the way the basic data is viewed, even though the computer is in front of people, and all the numbers and data are available in computerized form, delays progress in such areas as this, dignified president. I think it's important that the Council recognizes this and the institutions under the Council. I just reiterate that most institutions I know and are responsible for the development of these topics are to be commended for various very important and positive developments over the years, e.g. subject to income taxation, i.e. The stress card. But these people are expected to complain about the lack of money, that there is not enough money to do these things. I think that's exactly right, because people outside the software sector often don't understand the importance of the data itself and technical arrangements and technical presentation of data is a key factor. It's not a sideshow. It is not something that makes life easier for programmers, though I agree to do it as best in general, but it is the basis for using technology to make things easier for people who are not programmers and who have no expertise in software and have no expertise in accounting, nor any interest in learning how to make a year's account and give it back. After all, it is vital that we respect that view. We have to be careful to think of the paperwork as a piece of paper because that's how it shows up in a town where the person is running his own tiny business and wants to do whatever he is. No one enjoys writing, and this is not because people are unknown or lazy, but because they have something better to do with their time. It is our responsibility at the Council to understand this view, to respect it, and to do what we can to finance the solutions that can meet it, as well as to consider the technical harmony of the order we set.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u154	A respectable president. I'm going to discuss the annual bills of the state, linked to this case. But I'm going to start with the Commission opinion and the changes I made in order to be a little closer to the bill itself. There are several adjustments in the committee opinion, one new article, and the third is suggested to Article 3. The bill will be removed. I'm trying to figure out how this is, it's not according to the bill that it's after 2. Um... I suppose 2 str. Is being referred to. It is. If so, it's all right, but it makes 3. I think it's kind of crazy. The bill was submitted December 4th, and 1st. This will not be achieved until January 1, 2020, which is clearly past. I wonder if you can put 1. ..for this year, due in annual accounts, back in time. Whether this should not be true should be so that it does not come into force until January 1, 2021. If a member of the committee is following this, it would be reasonable to have an explanation of how this would fit in. There is an interesting table in the bill's report on the return of linked enterprises and how successful it is to get a company to submit annual accounts, well within large foals, since 2017 is due before the end of 88%. That means there are 5,000 companies that don't return annual accounts and that's a pretty big number. What I was going to discuss, however, is the parallel, how we do it at the government, and how it works to be an example of maybe a set in terms of a annual account or, for example, a year's account. State bill. Government bills are not yet due by 2019, although they should be expected to produce what they are from each year. State account for 2018 was submitted on June 28, 2019, less than seven months after the year's completion. An annual account for 2017 was submitted on October 11, 2018, especially late. The 2016 annual bill was returned June 14, 2017; the account for 2015 was submitted June 16, 2016; the account for 2014 was returned June 29, the following year. On average, it is mid - afternoon, which is due to the state's annual account. It is very difficult for the council to monitor the budget when this information is available so late. This is exactly the same basis as the annual accounts of an enterprise should be efficient. They're trying to make them more efficient with this bill. With the State, we should set a pattern and do better than have it taken seven months for the finance to return a bill. It causes a chain of events for next year's budgets and for all the government budgets on which numbers are really right and are right to build on. This will delay the process, this wind will rise well beyond the year, making policy difficult because it lacks proper information to build on. This will make plans for the council as well as for the council's surveillance because men don't have the right information to build on. What I find interesting in the general sense, and it was shown in the language of the day. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr, if we were doing this right, we'd get information about the changes almost in real time, how's it going with government bills and updates? This is something we should be able to do and get going as soon as possible. When it comes to the way we handle taxes, the information and transparency that we can provide, not just for an elected representative, but to the nation about how it is treated, the more valuable. The ability to react in time may save enormous sums, the ability to respond when we see that there are high levels of money or that plans are failing according to a given policy, perhaps because it was not based on sufficient data. There are certainly some offenders in the government's terms on information about what was actually done with the public tax. The figures on how companies return their annual accounts show that 2007 is nearly 60% missing some 12,000 companies, but ten years later, in 2017, there are the latest information, about 5,000 companies are missing. That is definitely progress. On the contrary, there is no progress in terms of GPA, it will always take about seven months to complete and close your account. We make these demands on the people of the country, there's a lot of talk about small companies who may be working with a lot of limited resources and a chance of returning these information. People have a lot of work to do, and they may have the least time to do the paperwork we make. We put these writing notes on the people and small companies, and therefore individuals, e.g. due to the tax report - it is easier now than it is to be returned in March, April - and these parties should return much sooner than the State itself can. However, the Kingdom should not need this extra time, for, of course, we should close the information as soon as the year is over or, as indicated in the speech of both. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthyr, right away. A year bill is as much the same date as possible. There is now another bill from the travel, industrial, and innovation ministers involved in annual accounts, including access to annual accounts, free access reminds me, I hope I will remember correctly. It's about external access with e.g. Nationalally important enterprises. We're a little weird about us having a company file divided into basic information about the enterprises and the approved members of our society, annual accounts and partner list. When it is open and free to access information from an enterprise file, there are special requirements for that information, not all the other information contained in the company file, e.g. A year's bills. There are special requirements to stop the non-employable access to corporate information files. This is information that should be available to anyone and at any time, this public information that we understand about society. There are also problems, such as the accounts of the annual accounts and the section card may not be updated on a regular basis. As for this bill, we're still trapped in that annual account, not a minute's bill, if you could think of it that way. While it may not be of great benefit to the overall population, it should be possible, i.e. that accounts run so fast through the whole system. But I'm quite interested in it, in connection with the duties that we place in our community to provide information on annual accounts, partnerships, and connections that a company can create, to show initiative and to provide a model in these areas. I insist that the government bill is better and faster and that access to it is exactly the same as the one behind it, that is, if anything is better than going and happens according to the means we put on the citizens of the country. The public is certainly to take the lead. We set laws and rules to make sure that the government's authority is as fair as it is, and when it comes to public opinion, it is not unfair to anyone. Officials need to set a good example. I'm going to finish my speech on it and remind you again, if any member of the Economic and Business Committee gets it, that the bill says that 1st. This should not be valid until January 1st, 2020. Although that date has passed, I cannot see to it that there is an arrangement in the Committee that this may be January 1, 2021, since it was neglected to give the bill before the last year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u155	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the annual bill, No. 3/2006. The main element of the bill, as mentioned in the discussion, is to change and, in part, clear the authority to eliminate guiltys due to late submissions due to annual bills in connection with the disintegration of partners. It is an excellent procedure to be moving this aspect to a better hand, but I wanted to use this opportunity to draw attention to other comments that were presented in connection with burdensome things in this regular work, which would be a good consideration of losing employment. I think it was the year 2016 that a great deal of authority was under way, both of which are due to pay annual bills. Then, if I recall correctly, in 2017, the way was continued to push the tax divorce rate of an enterprise more than a year, saying that the time a company had to make annual bills without getting guilty because of the late return. I must admit that as far as that point is concerned it sounded a little like some government officials had received a pet project through. The evidence was that, if I recall correctly, this would help the government's plans. I think that pushing the annual bills back in time did not make a major change in government quality estimates. What happened was, of course, an increase in the cost of construction because the accountants and accountants of the country were suddenly in a position to have to complete a considerable amount earlier than the number of companies that had been previously in the fall to complete. I have not seen any fundamental changes that happened to it, to the improved government forecastability in terms of their own income management, tax returns, and so forth. I think the conclusion was primarily to increase the cost of enterprises that use that service, simply because accountants had to do the same amount of projects, revise the same number of enterprises as at a shorter time in the year, which resulted in more pronounced less work to be done on the project after the deadline. Thus, it totally created an unnecessaryity without any financial advantage. While this point is not pointed out, other factors that would have been possible, for economic management and loss of cost, are identified in the findings of the industry's Association and the Association of Employment at the bill. But there seems to have been a decision in the Committee at the time. The Economic and Business Committee not to look at their perspectives and point points at this point. They may be the main points of view that have to do with the size of an enterprise that forms a warrant for the release of annuity from the revision. It is particularly critical in the opinion of the industry's Association that these limits are too low, as their reviews state, by permission of a president: Since 2014 the current ownership and revenue targets have remained unchanged, but from 2014 to2019, the average increase in production by 37%.• This, on its own, has resulted in a greater proportion of companies having more weighty responsibilities in this regard. In a chapter bearing the headline Increased administrative burden on small members of the above - mentioned reviews, Presidential permission: One of the main targets of the European Commission Directive (2013/34/EU) introduced by modification law No. 73/2016 was reducing administrative and burdensome requirements, including with a simple rule of order Then, according to the Industrial Association, there are 200 million in total, 400 million each year, and 50 in total. I think I remember it right that a company has to be over two of three of these limits in order to meet its obligations in terms of returning a revised annual account. But what the industrial organization points to there, and rightly, I mean, is that in 2 gr. a law on annual accounts is defined in a completely different way by smaller communities. There are 600 million possessions, 1,200 million rolls, the same number of annual works, 50 years. Of course, there's a lot going on. According to point two. the year-to-year bill definition of small partners is three times the amount of assets and a range of values specified in the limits of 1 mg. Ninety-eight. each year's bill. I would have thought perfectly obvious that it would be wise never to go shorter than this in increasing space and reducing the cost of revision, for that is, of course, so that the evidence may be on that basis, for the pressure on the demand, that clients have access to information about the actual position of the operator and so forth. But when it's about borrowing money, whether it's a bank or a stock supply in any trade, they have all the tools and tools needed to call for information, calling for a revised annual bill. If that's what making a bank counts as the basis for recycling, or funding over a bank, then banks, or supply it, will do it. Therefore, it does not have to be suggested for all this large number of people to go to something that is quite expensive, revise their annual accounts instead of going in - I do not have the terms used - a bill of year without reviewing accountants, even though the accountant may have won the annual bill. I think it would be wise to take into account the conclusions of the Industrial Association because we know that in many of the rules of action, companies are proposed, especially where they are being suggested to produce or do things in a way that micro-organizes in Europe, e.g. it would never be up to pass. Most companies in Iceland are what would be defined as a microsurgeon but, unfortunately, we here at home have often agreed to lower the threshold of quality, profit, or scope so that more burdensome regulations fall on smaller companies than abroad, although, by nature, there is nothing to justify it. There is nothing to justify this in the process of reevaluating costs, because we are discussing these specific laws here, a law of annual accounts, higher in companies of Iceland than in other European micro enterprises. I'd like to direct it to the head of the economy and to the secretary of business, and then to the Economic and Business Committee to start a job that will take into account these views. This actually affects the expense of smaller companies. Business organizations introduced a point of their comments that I wanted to provide, and it turns in the assessment of a number of employees. As I said before, it appears in the opinion of the Industrial Association, referred to in Article 2. Treat of annual accounts and the size limit in 1 mg. Ninety-eight. the same song, that in both cases, there is a 50 year period of pain. If a partner exceeds that limit, it calls for a review of annual accounts. Business organizations point to the fact that the concept of using it gets to some extent for us in that context. The review says, with the permission of a president: ▪ As previously discussed, the same text refers to the previous account of the Association of Professionals - ▪ the number of employees by the definition, dr. tablet above - Where there's an assessment of the number of employees. There are an estimated 175 thousand years of work in 2018, but the average activity of 12 months in the same year is 203 thousand. The average activity is approximately 16% higher than the estimated year's pain; therefore, it would be normal for the criteria at 1 mg. Ninety-eight. An increase in 60 and annuity reached an enterprise where the number of employees on average per year is below 60,◯ - but not 50. Under this charge, the head lawyer of the Association of Professional Science writes, and I think this indication is made that if the case and this principle of the environment are reviewed in terms of the value and size limits it is normal to take into account this view. But above all, I think it matters that the approach - which appeared in 2016, 2017, I don't remember exactly when it was, since these significantly increased sources of government stress were laid, and the rate of annual accounts was accelerated considerably within the year - does not indicate that there is a deep understanding that the extra cost of such heavy measures could be relevant. But he simply does. This accumulates in small companies that are defined as micro enterprises in the international context. In this case, it is simply important that the 1st2 million additionals be added for reviews within the year, since it is taken only by the management sector of the year in most companies. It is difficult to get them elsewhere, but at a cost that can be charged on a market at a time. As I came to the beginning, I think the change that's being done here is fine, but it's a bit technical and you suspect that it's a solution or a decision or a suggestion that is rooted somewhere in the system but is not a political decision or an idea. I think we should go a lot further on it, and then I'm not talking about paying off because an enterprise is holding tight on its business and information is available, but I think we should focus on developing the rules so that the cost of an enterprise to that sector will be as modest as any option. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In this context, I would like to agree specifically with the comments of the Industrial Association and the Business Association. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u156	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the part of my talk. In fact, I have to admit that I missed the first part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u157	That was a key speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u158	I can look it up online. I'm wondering why. A senator with regard to what he had just mentioned at the end of his talk, about the duties we place on our shoulders. At what point has it become so that it actually hinders people's ability to do articles that differ, review, and the like, in order to do their work simply? Contrary to what some batteries seem to hold in the system, there are a lot of people who are interested in starting their own business and working their jobs and being their own boss and all but who may not be eager to report annual reports or tax data or anything else, although these, of course, are important data for all kinds of reasons. I've been thinking a little bit about in this discussion how we could actually measure that limit when the demands we put on a business, especially small companies with little independent performance, except by buying a service in a town like that. A senator crossed, and the burden we place on our companies in this respect has grown to the point that it has more harmful effects than positive ones. This costs money and anything that costs time or work on a business to cost money or money in one way or another, not necessarily in a harsh amount of money. There's time for something else, e.g. simplifying your business or getting more customers, or whatever you want to do, or just doing your job. I have to say, before I came here at the General Assembly, I had no great interest in this, it was extremely tiresome, and it's a lot of waste of time, which it's not when you're starting to be interested in understanding the benefits. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But we must want the system so that people who want to work in some area can focus on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u159	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson respond. This is an interesting subject as a whale. A senator makes an effort to reach the limit, so to speak, when this begins to become a burden. This may be part of what I came up with regarding the comments of the Industrial Association, that the very least of which would be reason to present these boundaries without major research regarding the actual definition of small enterprises, which is still in the law. I think that's certain, I'll be sure to say that all the painters in this country are better at painting than to bring books. More and less are the services of the country. I think people in general should try to do as much of what they're good at and less of what they don't. In this context, the service is relatively expensive, especially when companies cover the limits there are. The reviews pointed out that the companies went over to have an obligation for revised annual accounts. In business, little things build up. It's a business that has 18% EBITDA, known as a profit from operating itself. This will take into account the funding directives, scripts, and other such items. Business operators are thus not working directly at 100% of all their income. The difference between whether it's a profit or a loss of the entire business depends on how one manages to charge a whole bunch of cost groups that vary from 0.5 to 62%, which may not see a lot but can determine whether companies are in good business or not overall. [[The president calls.]] I think we're supposed to look for all the available ways in which companies don't have to carry costs that don't bring back anything in an improved environment, either on information or on tax returns or so on the streets. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u160	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u161	A respectable president. I must say, for a certain joy, that I agree with what I am. Senator. But in this regard, I also wondered: " What is the responsibility of the State when it decides to put money on a business? At any rate, what responsibility does the State have to make this responsibility easy? I know that people who have no interest in this, especially those early in life, think that many of these are plans, that they have an obligation to be in writing for the State after all. As far as I can see, the only reason we have this is because we have no other way. There is no other obvious way to know what people earn unless they are given up. Happily, we have taken the lead in handling income taxes on individuals that people who are paid by some employer generally do not have to check them. The company is thinking about this because there is expected to be some structure that makes this easier or less of the cost than it would be for the individual himself. Yet, the individual is responsible for all of that. I've always thought it was a little weird. I understand the original source of this and why and why it is no doubt difficult to change who is responsible for the correct tax payoff of the employee. But if we were putting up the tax system today, I don't think we'd set it up like this. I think we'd make the payer responsible for that being right rather than the employee. I think so. From that point on, one must wonder whether the government needs to keep it in mind, when it requires information, or some German paperwork, that the government has some responsibility to make this easier for at least. for the employee and even the job itself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u162	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. We surprise each other here today, I think I can agree with all that was presented in the senator's speech. A burdeny rule against individuals may somehow seem to be much easier on the assembly than when trying to wind off it later. In recent years, the product of taxation, as it is called today, has been able to simplify it for individuals. The information is received from emissaries, banking institutions, and I think a lot of people can access the website and confirm the information they have submitted. In this regard, the public has contributed to the simple act of order. This has happened to some extent in the corporate environment with these buttons too, but the Button I think it's called. There is an option for the tax network. But I think there's a lot further to go. We are certainly not supposed to arrange a rule of order so that we are adding unneededly to the small companies known in Iceland as intermediate but as micro-successital enterprises, which have to be paid at considerable costs, without actually providing some profit in their business or in their clients or in their potential to compete in the cost. The dignity of the tax system is to form only its traditional routine, once every two months. Perhaps the largest part of the income tax industry's enterprise's financial relations with the government is that of changing because of this contribution. [[The president calls.]] I reiterate that we should always look for the simplest way, do this in the best flow, so people and businesses are spending their energy and time in what they best do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u163	A respectable president. I made a comment in my talk earlier about 3. The bill, which is the validation article, says: It already goes into effect. However, it should be 1st. not valid until 1 January 2020 We're trying to scratch our way through the changes, if they apply. The 2nd sentence is spoken of as Comb 1. falling away, and a new article is being added. It's complicated to scratch beyond this. It would be much better if the Senate documents were in computerized form, then you would see better what it meant to where and what the final outcome would be. I just have a request to the president not to finish the discussion. If these things need to be adjusted, they need to be made aware of the adjustments in the discussion. It is not possible when the discussion is over and there are no more on the rosary. I ask the President to postpone the discussion, instead of finishing it, if they had to add a new proposal to fix it. [[Up front.]] The case is in 3. Um... I can't ask the case to go to the committee because we're finishing 3. If the 3rd. is complete. changes cannot be measured. If the highest. The president could postpone the discussion, I don't know if he needs any guidance in this regard, to avoid losing the opportunity to change it if something has failed with the recording, it would be appreciated.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u164	Mr. President. My conversation was so brief that I did not have time to attend my letters in the House office. Now it's up to 3rd. and I'd like to celebrate the plans here that make it possible to support society's evaporation projects in a handsome way. This task is enormously expensive for many societies, and in various contexts the results are not clearly seen. But in the environment, the results are obvious and upbuilding to each region for a long time in terms of environmental quality. It began with a view to finding the solution rather than a snumble in its scope. Perhaps it was possible to teach a vagueer format, but after the situation has been resolved on an environmental and transport committee, I think most people would be quite comfortable with the overall objectives of support. I personally felt that we should have introduced the old support system, which involved reimbursement of rural communities of the valuable tax from these irrigation projects. This system was at the hands of people for years, and there were quite some successes in rural evasion at the time. However, since that system had come to an end, even though it was certainly successful here and where to find the country. I hope this will work to support the development of rural society because this is being done at a very number of billions in total if it's all finished. Of course, this requires considerable room for support, which is looked around somewhere near the old value tax remuneration. This is another systematic solution, but hopefully the result will be the same. Here, for example. increased in time to assessment of areas where projects are particularly difficult to have on the basis of population size and so on. I declare my joy with the situation. I myself and what. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason, the other member of the Central Group of Environment and Transport Committee, were both on the Committee when it was through the committee. I'd like to congratulate us and all of America's rural communities on being this way, however, in terms of the restoration of the infrastructure systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u165	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying something. paritaprevir Bergþór Oli's Ólason. In contrast with what humans sometimes think, we have been able to resolve this matter and the rest of the committee. This may be an example of how things go at times during the council. I would like to comment on a particular subject presented in the bill, which, as a whole, is the most excellent progress, i.e. microplastic. The bill discusses the time to deal with plastic pollution. It refers mainly to plastic pollution in so - called surface water. There is, of course, a lot of microplastic and microbubbles, in fact, not just plastic, due to roads and roads. Everything in the sea, rivers, or lakes happens to be more or less. The primary plastic pollution is from tires, and then plastic particles come from paint, street paint, and so on. There are other forms of particulates that are not good for. There are many of them, every tar, soot, et cetera. All of this, and that microsphere, will be in my reception. The cleansing of microplastics and microbubbles from surface water must be performed by specific methods; spherical pools and cleaning them, its disposal, etc. However, what goes into the drain goes more or less into the ocean and would be very costly in cleaning water into so - called sewage treatment stations. Of course, it can be done at high cost. The big question, then, is not how much money should be put in cleaning surfaces and sewage disposals but how to reduce the amount of microplastics. Of course, there are ways to do so. There the nail pads can remain below, their use can be reduced. A single energy exchange in which fire machines are dominant. Then there is one related to street paint, both necessary street paint, such as white lines, and so on, but also, where the streets are being painted, as they do in Reykjavík, by painting half the way or by bed. All of this ends with weathering and gradually breaks into seawater or other receptors, and that is not good. Street paint must then be reduced without a discount on the safety of road users. I mention this because I would like to encourage the Environment and Resource Ministry to do so, although not directly an order from the Council to set up a small task force that would apply to this particular project which should be within the range we can handle, i.e. using established methods for the removal of microplastics and other small particles from surface water from the streets. This is an encouragement to the Ministry to handle this matter with any confidence and authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u166	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this council meeting at all. All I want to do is talk about sustainability in tourism. I would like to ask this question, Is the Icelandic tourism sustainable? I say no. The reasons are simply that the pressures on the environment and the environment beyond what is acceptable in the light of sustainability have not yet been established. It is not surprising, however, that the land is large, the tourism is new from the needle, and its growth is tremendously rapid. As far as social sustainability is concerned, there are many of them. We can say that this is true in some places and parts of the country or how we want to evaluate it. But there are also places where such things do not exist, where social pressures are beyond what they themselves have said they can bear. If an objective examination is performed, it should be demonstrated that there are many pots broken in these materials. When it comes to economics or money matters, so to speak, we have seen that the Icelandic economy can be at great risk when it comes to economic benefits from tourism. She's weak. It's a small business. There is considerable evidence that financial sustainability is not available either. After all, it means to me that we need to determine in a scientific way the level of international tourism in all of these areas. That's what tools and tools are for. That's even. new to develop very interesting sustainable references to the current government and the Minister on these matters. There is more. There are various scientific standards and methodologies to evaluate objective endurance of society, nature and economic systems in each country. Therefore, I would like to encourage the development of this work after all that has been done to promote tourism towards sustainability. The bill mentioned here surely does because strong, public funds are part of the solution to the better conditions for adding to the sustainable European tourism, so that at such times Iceland will be exemplary in these activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u167	Mr. President. I didn't mean to come up with this speech at this point, but there are two points I think only need an appeal, just to have it done. One in itself does not refer to the bill text as such but, in effect, a point mentioned in a report, the other involves the command of the fund. Section 3.1 of the report on the bill says, by permission of the president: In such a contract or after the incident of the stockholder's agreement on the establishment of the special fund or similar agreement, it is assumed that other investors in the specialized funds would expect to buy a predetermined share of Kía after a certain period of time when the primary investing period of the fund has been completed. The committee considered only that such sales are incompatible with the objective of the government and the purpose of the bill. As a result, the Economic and Business Committee agrees that this is not necessarily a good arrangement. This is especially true because there have been some reasons why this is not good. The possibility in such cases is, in fact, two, that it has been established that the government's investors can be sold on presupposed gangships as mentioned in the report, in other words, possibly on subsidiary, and that it is possible to maximise the state's investment, which, in turn, goes back into the innovation environment and further emphasis on sponsoring a prosthetics company and also preventing State from stealing a competitive position within the market. I mention this because there is a reason to fear that if this happened to sell some of the investors in these preconceived assets, it could have some negative consequences. It's like I'm not saying in the bill's text, so it's not part of the law. This is in the report coming from the Ministry, and I would like to direct it to the future Georgian administration to keep in mind that there is a particular danger here, and probably better not to go this way and rather take maximum efficiency into the Krista Fund and use it to promote the innovation environment. That was the second point. The second point is that according to the bill, the minister of five men serves as a four - year - old Victoria administration. As is suggested, they are to be ruled without a form of worship. It's very important because Kría is likely to have a high weight in indicator development in Iceland. It may actually be that governments have a rather great power to govern simply the kind of indexes, the extent of their being, and even the ability to influence them according to their own suitability. I'd like to direct it to the highest. Ministers to consider that the government will be organized as the most scattered and democratic means, although the warrant may be somewhat broad as it is in the bill. Of course, it may be a little late to make those comments now, I apologize for that. I think it's simple things that are more involved in how the fund is actually being expelled and in memory of the bill text and future law, but they are both in making the Krista Fund better and strengthening the new creation environment and the sceptre environment in Iceland, which, of course, is the goal and, of course, everyone wants to achieve that goal so hopefully will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u168	Mr. President. I'm not going to have very many words about this bill that I've supported and considered good and that I've improved in my treatments with the Committee and I've put on quite a good costume. But there are two things I want to talk about. It's all about the bill itself, except by indirect means, i.e. The funding of the fund this year and the future. This kind of sea is assigned to invest in index funds. Science funds are so built up that they work for a long time. They work five to ten years, most commonly seven to ten years. They start investing during investment periods and then follow up on their investments, highlighting the promises made by investors. I feel very strongly that it is very clear that the state can go through this fund, following investments so that, first of all, there is no hesitation that there is enough money in the fund to care for the establishment of indicator funds, and second, it is clear that the fund can live on its commitments in the long run. It is very important that we recognize this nature when we then discuss the financing section of this matter. The other thing I'd like to mention in particular is the government structure of the fund. The sea provides funds that the state offers and may even be said to be. It is not unusual for the state to have control of the fund. However, the investments are very special. They require expertise and knowledge of this market and understanding of innovation. Hence, it was a joy to see that in the case of the committee it was tightened and that there was a higher demand for special authority, which is of utmost importance. I think it is also right to stress it, because, really, it is a minister who commands the whole board, that it is very carefully taken care of that in the administration, the multiplicityd people are well acquainted with this information and know this environment very well. The opinion that something is unnatural is different from the fact that others can get the right to the fund and has been specifically mentioned that certain organizations and/or experts from the university environment should be placed there, i.e. There would be a court order from outside the city. That arrangement has advantages and flaws. I think the landing in the bill is completely acceptable. However, it is very important for this fund and so many other things that the state is dealing with and moving people to do, and that's why I felt compelled to come up here, that the people of that sort would be chosen, and that any attempt to avoid the possibility that some kind of politics is in this kind of fund. What is most dangerous is that some may be acceptable to the government or others on some ground that does not belong to the fund. I fear that it may not be so, but I think it right to say that a minister will have it in mind, and the government will be chosen so that there will be no lack of confidence in the fact that a person will compromise the natural way of ruling and that he will be invested in the necessary index funds on absolutely objective grounds. I thought it right to come up and express these thoughts and opinions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u169	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on the bill to legalise loan management of loan institutions and stock markets. The bill is part of the implementation process of the European Parliament and the Council's Directive, which includes its main element in Icelandic. The bill suggests the use of new overall forms of loan therapy and stock companies. According to the bill, the law will be carried out in the hands of a new administrative entity called return authority and will separate unity within Iceland's Secret Bank. According to 1st mg. 86. g. The bill shall set up a financing system called a return fund and make informed decisions about payment from the return fund. The purpose of returning funds is to cover the costs of return therapy and to prevent the need for financial support from being met by contributions from the State Fund. 2 mg. the size of the return source should be 1% of the assured details before the end of 2027, of a level of 8.5 billion. it should be taken into account by loyal introductory circumstances at the end of 2018. According to the provisional principle of the bill, there should be a department within the deposit fund of depositors and investors, so-called TIF, and a total of 2.4 billion should be provided. from the fund's deposit section to the return fund in 2020 and 2021. A bill with the bill shows that planning to start reimbursement is under way and that remuneration will be fully planned after the two years. In addition, the taxpayers will be about the same people who pay punitive fees in the TIF, as well as as as stock companies that fall beneath the set of the bill's values. It is important to note that the reviews of Arion's banks and financial organisations include: discussed the proposed payment in return funds from 2022 in relation to a special tax on financial companies, and other public budgets for financial companies. According to one reference work, the Association of financial companies has to bear in mind that both the special taxes on financial companies and the plans for reimbursement are on the debt of financial companies. The organization's position is that it does not assume that these suggestions at the same time will arise. In a memory sheet to the Committee, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs pointed out that the overall policy barrier to tax recovery and financial expenditure is being made in the government budget made each year. The tax returns of business banks were examined in this global context each year, and based on such policies, there would have been a documented decrease in the rate of a special tax on a financial enterprise. If that were the case, the charge for TIF would have been considerably reduced. A fall. With law No. 131/2019 changes were made in the law of a special tax on a financial enterprise, No. 155/2010, so the tax cut-off rate decreased from 0.36% to 0.15% in increments over four years. With Article 12. law on changing various laws to meet the economic impact of a pandemic crown virus, No. 25/2020, the step difference in the decline was removed so that the tax cut-off rate was immediately reduced to 0.145%. The majority of it feels clear that prior to remuneration the funds must take place in counterprising measures, it can be seen that increased budgets are mainly responsible for financial companies, i.e. The consumers and the professional world. The decrease in the bank tax is thus a positive step in this light. Further reductions or reviews of the transfer of bank tax may be necessary in addition to reimbursement, as mentioned in the Ministry's above - mentioned memo. It's the review of the Leather Fund. To the Committee it is suggested that the loan be borrowed from the set of values set up by the bill. The review points out that by making a decision by the joint EEA committee, it was specifically avoided as part of the EU lender as per EU Regulation. The Department of Economic and Economic Affairs notes that transport and SEC have been consulted on the basis of evaluation of the right to release the loans in terms of the bill's terms. The result of this work is that the Ministry thinks it's right to have a farm partner's loan. and a building agency will be particularly excluded from the force of law under 2 st. The rest of the part suggests we're 2. The bill is added to a paragraph where these members will be excluded from the field of values. In the 5th. The bill considers the duties and projects of the Minister. In 1st. The law states that decisions on the agreed return plan for a systematicly important financial enterprise will only be taken after the approval of a minister. The same is true of decisions that can directly influence government funds or system-based impacts, including the conversion and conversion of capital gains by IV. section of the bill and the return therapy of a company or units according to Article 35. A review by Iceland's Office on the matter points to the directive and to explain it to the bill's report. The bank then notes that it is considered unfounded and unfortunate to separate the Minister's approval for decision-making on the approved return plan for a systematicly important financial enterprise. From the comments we make, we make 1 mg. Section 5. The bill recognizes that making such a return plan does not have a systematic or direct effect on the state funds. Then there is a separation of access to these decisions beyond the minimum request of the BRRD directive for confirmation of a minister whose sole decision is directly influenced by a government fund or system-based effect, as per 6 mgr. Section 3. The order. The bank warns that too strict a minister's request in this respect can put a minister in a difficult position, such as if a minister came to refuse a decision to transfer or change funds, such as IV. section of the bill, which would be based on a return plan which a minister would previously have granted special consent. The majority of them understand the views expressed in the review of the Federal Bank and believe that the information rights given to the Minister is given at 3 mg. Section 5. The bill was sufficient to ensure that a minister has access to the necessary information on the government's decisions, including decisions on the agreed return programmes for systematically important financial companies. The majority believe that there is a risk that a minister's approval for such decisions may become a problem and that the requirement does not serve a purpose as a suggestion of its need. Sets the extra item to make a change in 1 mg. Section 5. The bill and the requirement for Ministers to agree to the agreed return plan for systematicly important financial companies to be suspended. Code 94, par. the bill on government fines that the Federal Council of Iceland can place on individuals or legislators due to violations against the specific regulations. Two. is not recommended. It should be noted that guiltys may be able to obtain up to 10% of total benefit according to the last approved kit if a legislator is included in kits and fractures are provided for the benefit of another legal entity in the kit or another legal entity in the kit has received a benefit from the fracture. It is suggested that the additional requirement in the case of partnerships, that another legal body in kits were profited from a offense or that fractures were provided for another legal entity, that it should be eliminated, that it should not be found in the above directive, i.e. BRD. Having agreed with the Ministry contributes to the development of a change in the arrangement. The majority also contributes to changing the bill's value code and the date of the provisional regulations for the transfer of funds from the deposit centre. The majority suggest that the date on March 1 be replaced. will be considered on September 1 and that the value of the bill will also be focused on that date. It will be stated that the law will be implemented on pay of pay to the A-institution Insurance Fund of depositors and invest in paydays starting September 1st, 2020. This makes it clear that the calculation of a tax on pay days 1, September 2020, or later should be done by a change of rule despite the reference period of pay date at 5 mg. Section 5. b Act on investing insurance and insurance systems. In this respect, the greater part contributes to the approval of the bill by these changes as well as to some of the other changes proposed to a special Senate document. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Óli Björn's Kárason, Jón the Steindór of Perdím, Brabbur the Valdimarsson of Níelsson, Brutsis the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Willum Þór the son of Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u170	V.E.G. President. I'm here recommending a commission on bill change of customs law, No. 88/2005, with subsequent changes. These are proposed changes to improve the effectiveness of the tax pay so that toll pay will take into account the weekly incidences and, on the other hand, result in increased access to electronic customs. Then there's 8 p.m. the bill changes the product selection rules for the public-free alcohol store, which responds to the advice of the EFTA Agency followed by the reasoned opinion of the Agency on April 22. According to Article 16. The EEA treats countries in the EEA and allows them to run state segregations. However, they need to ensure that citizens of EU Member States are not discriminated against on conditions for embezzlement and marketing. It is the ESA's position that the law applies not only when it comes directly to the business of a private sale but also when it is granted authority to another person to run a private sale, as in the case of the Freest. Here we face a serious problem with alcohol monopolitans. This article has been criticized by visitors who attended the committee, including those who were present. from Distuss ehf, that the change would not be sufficient to meet the ESA's standards of goods. On October 28, 2018, the ESA sent a reminder letter stating that ESA's assessment was in Iceland's war against Article 16. The European Economic Convention by allowing the Free arm to ehf. a little sale of alcohol without ensuring transparent commodities between the pharmacy products and the marketing of commercially sold alcohol. It was the ESA's opinion that the Free Ambourn's small sale was a government monopolitan, so the government has to put free crews in good order and set up a lawsuit in order to secure alcoholic health sales the possibility of getting the company's decisions about shopping revised. This is where we come to the point. We have a government retail, and then we have the private business of the Freest, a private partner, of course, on public property, to sell alcohol. It's going to get really bad. It is difficult to have such a society that does not have to follow exactly the same rules as on TVR with private sales elsewhere. There was a valid argument in the case that the bill may not reach far enough to ensure this equation. In any case, though, this bill is greatly improved by the current rules. It has to be said that it is very special that a private partnership such as the Freeway is like any other government in which the decisions it makes are most welcome to ministers. This tells me personally in what kind of trouble the state agreement or a small sale of alcohol is in this country. It has to do with the rules and the EEA Convention where it is that he is home to state retails with these great conditions that are uncertain whether we fill up with this bill. So a small sale of alcohol at the Free Harbor owned by public members where decisions are charged to Ministers are some kind of bastard that I don't think is good for the future. In any case, it is obvious that this bill is greatly improved by the current rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u171	The product is good...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u172	- It's as good as it gets. Yet, a speaker has considerable experience in this. Of course, here's just a change in the subject area where the c-dimers 2 gr. has been modified. This is shown in the committee's opinion. Yet, as people have heard, there is no particular joy in the case of the prominent. Therefore, not only was he on that committee party on notice but the members of the council were Smári Mccarthy, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, and Bettis Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir also in advance. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson was absent from the case. But under these words, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir Kárason, chairman of the Committee, Bruntur Níelsson son of advance, Jándídur the Steindór of Valdimarsson, in advance, Bárísdísdóttir, Odnar G. Harðardóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Smári Mccarthy, with warning, and Willum Þórsson Tursson. I'm going to make the story of this over. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u173	Mr. President. I thought it right to come up to explain why I'm on this committee party in advance. That's mainly because I think it would have been better to go a little further on the case in order to try to make sure that the freemen's shop that sells alcohol would have made use of at least as well as perfectly comparable goods rules as TVR when deciding which alcohol should be used for regular sale. I can't say that the speciality of this liquor store is so great that it can be beyond what it can do. The fact is, the vast majority of alcohol sold in the store is purchased by Icelanders who, in most cases, are on the way home to supply themselves with alcohol. I can't see why the store can't in this respect fit the same principles for shopping on alcohol as the TVR does. However, I decided to support the situation because despite everything, these factors are being improved. But I can heartily say. A prominent speaker when speaking from his own heart. This shows how unfortunate it is that we keep it in the country's hands and then the state goes up to the Cheflavor airport and will have to disguise ourselves in the likeness of private members, run there a private partner to sell the same wine sold at the liquor stores within the country. In this regard, a store suggests that it is no longer bound by the rules set by the State otherwise on alcohol trade in the country, and it does not have to consider what is called alcoholism and public health issues. In fact, I find it a little strange to set it up so that the NTVR is particularly interested in public health. At any rate, it is part of the lawsuit that the Freeway is not bound by the need to enforce public health policies such as the ATSVR and therefore cannot apply the same buying conditions there. I wanted to make this statement so that people could see why I've signed it in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u174	Mr. President. I'd like to make a brief explanation for my advance. It is very similar to others. senators who have expressed their own notice. There will likely be some news to be called when we hear it. paritaprevir Hermies, Níelsson, agree on something, but it's only positive when it happens. I hope no one goes on tape with that news. Here's a nice bill that handles a surprising problem, but it's not sufficiently decisive, but that's how it works, and that's why I approve of the bill as such. My client turns to the fact that there is a patch on a bigger problem that has not been properly resolved in the realm of politics for a very long time despite the fine efforts of many people throughout the years, i.e. how to organize the sales of alcohol and its monopolies. The free will is, in fact, an exception to the second universal rule that only a small sale of alcohol is carried out in the NTVR liquor stores. At best, this exception seems strange. It is such an exception that you are forced to ask yourself, " Should I not either root it out or make it absolute, i.e. to allow alcohol to be simply a public sale. Leaving this in a limbo where the Freest gets some kind of special treatment is not positive and I'd prefer that we go all the way and allow it, for example. all the shops in the Free Sea to do a little selling, but not just one who breaks the competition, or just doing it all over the country. I know that by referring to this, I gave up a lot of discussion. I'm not going to try to put her through the clock all the time on Friday, but at some point we'll have to finish this discussion, and in any case, stop allowing it to be used in an abbreviation to create some sort of anchor and conflict instead of looking for the solution. I think it's a good solution. Most countries have found it independently. Maybe we could get it too if we tried.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u175	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a commission to set up a bill to legalize a law on the Generality of the Council, No. 55/1191 i.e. on the day of a regular meeting of the Generals 2020. This case was delivered by the Supreme Court. Prime Minister recently. The above opinion is, in itself, simple and short and then silent, with the permission of a president: ▪ The journal has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Dr. Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, president of the Generalis. The bill suggests that the regular International Assembly Day for the fall of 2020 will be the Thursday of October 1, instead of the second Tuesday of September, according to the Convention Act. The objective of the bill is to ensure an increased balance in order to prepare needed changes in government financial policy and to set up a financial programme for the 2021/2025 for making contributions at the Council, as well as in the bill for 2020. The majority suggest that the bill be passed on as it should. Under the heading "Apprehensible " literature, as well as" here, " w. The men of the assembly, Brumn the Brynjar of Níelsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson the son of Proppé, Líneik Anna, Sævarsdóttir, Óli Björn the Kárason of Meria, and Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Egil. That's not even true, Mr. President. The case is due to the situation in this area and is part of our ability to maintain the operation of the Generalis as normal and efficient as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u176	V.E.G. President. I recommend here to the Committee's list of changes made in a greater part of the budget of a bill to legalize a change of public financial law. The matter, of course, is directed to the matter as a matter of course. paritaprevir Sæmundsson had a history of the above, and he turned to the bill for a change in the terms of the General Assembly and turned to the meeting day of the Council, all of which is equal to the second Tuesday of September and budgeted on the day of question 1. However, the financial committee, the nature of the case, had some comments on this subject and had visitors whom the committee considered necessary to discuss the matter and including representatives of the Ministry of finance. We discussed with the representatives of the action and process, particularly with the smiles of the economic presidents and the scenarios that the Ministry has carried out and appeared in a paper with the bill as a copy of Article I. Then the committee was assigned to meet with its representatives from the European Union of Iceland, the European Union of Iceland, and the Government Review, with which the Commission had a financial hearing. The Article II of the bill presents the reply of a financial conference to a financial and economic secretary's letter, to the opinion of the financial Council on the off-depth plans and plans, which felt obliged to give further consideration to the continuation by reference to a law on public finance and purpose and the importance of its implementation. As to the role of a financial body, we are not here, but the circumstances we are dealing with have certainly raised questions, whether the role of a financial body might be more extensive, and then written into the law, which is a better time for such discussions. The purpose of the deferral programs displayed in the bill we are considering should be clear to all, and the greater part seems to be obvious that the main presidents of financial policy are smiling. The law does not discuss the continuation of financial programmes, monopolitans are discussed on the review of financial policy. In the 10th. a law on public financial matters says that if core financial policies fail because of economic failures, national years or other circumstances, Ministers should propose to change policy as soon as possible and that is to be made together with financial planning or budgetary contributions. The majority of these conditions are certainly seen now, and therefore a significant reason to be temporarily removed from the traditional rule of law on public finances and there are perturbing reasons for further postponement of revised financial policy and financial programmes as proposed in the bill. During the past few months, the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic has been caused by some of the world's greatest economic crisis for a long time. In such circumstances, a great decrease in time and smile of financialism are also not advisable to increase the current recession effect either by increasing taxation or by reducing emissions to meet the targets of survival and debt status set in it, i.e. Current course. It has to be assumed that such measures would be unwise and would violate the baseline laws on stability. There is also no basis for providing financial planning until 2025, where its basis is based on financial policy. The situation can be attributed to a letter from March 10 last year as secretary of finance and economics sent to the President of the Generals, which suggested a continuation of a new financial programme where economic criteria for a valid policy would be smiling. The basis for the procrastination was considerable uncertainty about the development and prospects of the economy and their concomitant effects on public finances. As a result, policies are in effect broken down, as stated in the law, and clearly presented in the opinion of a financial body. In fact, the letter also stated that the plan to submit the budget for the Council in mid - May and that, at the same time, it would be proposed a judicial hearing on the current financial policies for the 20188/2022 period, when the necessary basis for the magnitude and economic impact of the pandemic would have been clarified. This may reveal, a respectable president, then a much uncertainty about developments at that point, i.e. March 10, when the letter is sent and written. Thus, their plans were excluded from implementing the same reason for the continuation plans and the timelines provided in the bill for preparation and contribution of policies, plans, and budgets. Therefore, the bill suggests that an update of the budget for the years 20211⁄22025 will not be submitted to the current spring Summit, but it will be delayed until the fall of the new assembly, as well as the continuation of the revised financial policy, and it will be submitted. Then we'll be considering, if the bill mentioned before, that it will be October 1. That's 1st. The bill proposed to allow a postponement to submit to the General Report evaluating the more likely development of community, employment, environmental and demographic issues for the next decades and their impact on survival, financial status and commitment of public bodies. According to Article 9. the administration of public funds shall be done at least once every three years to report such to the General. By provisional regulations in the law, a minister was given more leeway and the report would be expected to be published prior to the year 2018 instead of 2018, but it is now suggested at the end of 2020. Eight. Public financial legislation stipulates that economic criteria should be based on sound grounds and data, public interest, and national interest. Thus, Iceland's Organization's National Economics have provided fundamental reasons for financial and financial policies, but surely a financial committee has increasingly taken into account and taken into account the economics of other peoples, which are not excluded from the law as set up. Now, for example, the Habitat has postponed national forecasting and is working on up - to - date predictions. Now based on the reevaluation of the economic outlooks during the August 15, 2010, and the next full - time prophecy will not appear until October 1. It can be assumed that new national forecasts will be submitted to the Department of Economics in the past. The economy is going to publish preliminary predictions by the end of June, as is the case today. In connection with the bill, the Ministry of Economics has published stage-based scenarios, both of possible stocks and of state debt and of economic impact on the number of anti-proven activities that have been taken recently because of the pandemic. These stage photos make it clear that the contribution of the State Fund is inconsistencies with the prerequisite value of the budget. Various members, including The Agency has published a wide range of economic developments and public financial status. The financial policy, as we publish it, is clearly expressed as a proportion of GDP, but there is considerable uncertainty about changing the national product from what was expected to happen before the Covid-19 pandemic. The majority agree with financial advisers that the aims of economic policy must not be the limit of the government's leeway. This has been shown in most terms by financial advisers until policy development and sometimes refer to a straitjacket. I think that during the last financial work and changes in revised financial policy, building a certain amount of space into policy would reflect efforts to cope with it, but at the same time, it must not be the limit of the government's limits. At that time, it must not be so wide or with the margin so that its course will be aimless. Then there is the uncertainty of today's situation that such a course would be unrealistic and meaningless, although there is certainly always a need to be careful that a policy course exists, we do have something to hold on to inexhaustible situations. The majority have taken a detailed look at the need to postpone policies and programmes in the context of the situation and uncertainty, and in the context of instructions given in Article 10. The law to submit a revised course as soon as possible. The purpose of policy is to include: to reduce uncertainty and establish firmness, and also to establish financial and financial programmes. Thus, even though a simple request in the bill might appear to be made, the committee considered the matter in detail. However, economic uncertainty and low economic criteria so far give serious reasons to postpone contributions. The policy would be reduced with such aimless and unrealistic, not with the guidance it is intended for financial and financial schemes of the next year. I think this is the core of what we look at in order to postpone the review of policy and contributions of budget and budget. It is important, though, that before discussing financial programmes, it is desirable to submit revised financial policies. However, we discussed it somewhat on the committee. This may sound as if it were not a major end, but the law says that under such circumstances it can be provided as soon as possible with a financial plan. But it is desirable for financial policy to come ahead of a financial programme where financial agenda rests on financial policy and it is important for the council to consider policy before discussing financial programmes. The majority thus agree with financial advisement that objective reasons are for further continuation of the Senate resolution proposal for the review of financial policy but that policy cycle cycles will be established as soon as possible. According to a reference work in the United States alone, the relationship feels that there has been a lack of consultation with rural society in preparing financial policy. The importance is explained by the need that, as soon as it is improved, our rural communities need to obtain information that will provide timely information for the preparation of their financial plans. These plans are partly based on the Economic Organization's national ideals, thus providing financial support for the state and rural unions. The more part shows that the situation in this area is very similar to that in other OECD countries both in government operations and in delaying the contribution of public financial plans. The majority agree with the views expressed in response to financial and economic ministers in terms of the Council's opinion of the plans for the continuation of financial policy and financial programmes. That's where even the two of them come from. ................................................................................................................................ It is also noted that it would be appropriate to review financial policy ahead of financial planning to conclude a discussion on it when a financial agenda is submitted. In the past, financial advisers have discussed that economicism is an independent part of policy development and that the financial agenda is closer to its implementation. The majority are aware that the prime minister has discussed with the presidents of the political parties at the General Assembly on the promotion of policy and plan. It has been determined that a new financial policy will be submitted by the end of August of the month and will be implemented at the General Assembly. It is estimated that a financial program designed for the year 2021 5202025 will be submitted to a new assembly meeting that is expected to be October 1. If all of this were to go along, a respectable president, that would be an arrangement in accordance with financial views, i.e. We'd be able to do that. The majority agree with the above views that economicism is natural to be put ahead of financial planning and financial support for the next year. Accordingly, a change in 2.g. the bill so that policy and plan can be submitted sooner - and at the latest at the time of the regular International Assembly Day in the fall of 2020. This change involves that, prior to the words, at 2 gr. Come, I pray you, no more than this, and let the words of Second Reg. Then, respectable president: ▪ Despite Article 1. Section 5. and 1st. 10th par. The proposal for a resolution of the financial strategy for the years 2021/2025 and a proposal for the resolution of the changes in financial policy in the years 2018/2022 presented no later than at the meeting day of the regular Council of the autumn of 2020. Then the majority suggest a change in the bill's headline that it becomes: The bill to correct a change in government law, No. 123/2015 (published). The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with this change of 2.g. The bill and the headline. Páll Magnússon signed his signature according to a 4 mg source. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Valdimarsson Steindór Valmardsson, an officer of the hearing, is in agreement with the hearing. Under the order of the centuries. Councilmen: Willum Thor Þór Þórsson, Haraldur son of Benediktsson, Sæland Golaand, Ágústsson Ölfur Águst, Birggis Birgir of Þórarinsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Páll Magnússon, and Steinunn, the Þóra of Árnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u177	A respectable president. I did not sign this committee opinion, but I disagreed with the conclusion after all. I'd like to ask you what. The head of the budget board in the opinion of a financial body and the outback that I feel is the Ministry, and the more part is of that opinion. While it does say that there is a grammatical reason to postpone, it is also said that the timing of the cycle is needed as soon as possible. Then I don't understand why it is taken only out of the opinion that there is a perplexing reason to postpone and postpone it as much as it really is. Is it really possible, then, to say, " I can't bring financialism now, nor now, and postpone and postpone what is going on? ' What are some of the conditions in which financial policies can be established? What uncertainty prevents financial policy from being set? If we do not know, we also do not know when the uncertainty will run out, which would tell us that financial policies can be established because there is no definition. Another important element is the opinion of a financial Council in the transparency. If the sentence of financial policy is postponed and in a situation where there is no valid financial policy, then financial policy puts tremendous emphasis on the baseline point that has not been at all, we have to say at the present time. And as for the Senate's perspective on government surveillance and maintenance, how can we sign up for the forwarding of financial policy contributions for so long without maintaining the transparency value?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u178	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn wife, the Leví of Gunnarsson, for very good questions. Hv. A senator promoted this view during the discussion of the legal committee. I respect that viewpoint because, as I said in my speech, the purpose of making a firm, steady policy is always to keep us in the subject, especially under uncertain circumstances. Hv. A senator then asks why we are taking these things because the law says we should establish a revised policy as soon as possible. I think every person who's been talking about it says so, and it's coming, too. It is clear in the opinion of a financial body that economic grounds for such a policy are completely uncertain. I'd rather discuss the concerns expressed in the opinion of a financial body that even if there are any expectations for us to have some realistic statistics, not just staged images, but fortunes such as 8 par. the law on public financial matters tells us to follow and build such policies so that they can be sound, and they can be the basis for the financial and financial structure that it deserves, now in June and August, at the time when the Ministry and the Bureau will have to return, if we look at these practicing things. I'm going to come up to the question of a very good transparency in a later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u179	A respectable president. Yes, that's uncertain. No one's denying it. But in the face of uncertainty, no one is better than the government, the government, to step forward and eliminate uncertainty. With that, e.g. To contribute financial policy, governments can eliminate uncertainty and thus create this cycle again. They can make the firm and stability needed to get us out of the uncertainty. It follows, then, that we need to think deeply about when economic factors are, in fact, the bad and uncertainty that the role of the public in the economy is not merely the baseline in which they are addressed but that of forming them. Maybe it's missing, that may well be. But I think it makes sense that these are conditions that we need to work on. And when we are not told that we can establish financial policy to these conditions, the council is left out of the air, not only for the maintenance of funding but also for the government taking the opportunity at the opportunity to promote financial policy because it has become the basis for it. But we do not know what these conditions are, just some time in September, and financial advice tells us that we really have no idea whether uncertainty will ever be less.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u180	V.E.G. President. As mentioned in my first answer, I have a lot of tolerance for these views, and I think it's important what happened to me. Senator. I think that about the transparency, so that I come to that, I made quite clear, that the basis for this prole of propagation is permanence, clear and sufficient, as indicated by the opinion of more parts, and I went into historical review. Regarding the transparency, it is very important, and financial advisers make it appear, and you also read it in OECD reports that on all the measures we have to take, in the counterweight measures to support employment and home, there is full transparency of all that action. According to my information, a group is on the move, including to draw together all these actions and what they should do. But we've also been very active here at the council, calling out and talking about the importance of transparency. I hope it's going to work. I think we've worked hard on that. Of course, we can constantly discuss the scale of uncertainty so that it is unrealistic to build a course. But in the law, for the making of 10. g., it is written only about which process we want to start, although not known. You have to write it a little bit better into the law, I'll agree with it with you. Senator. But what a challenge it is when we prepare policies and financial programs, find a balance between growing out of this dilemma, and make sure that the debt of the public does not exceed a danger.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u181	Mr. President. There have been many personalizations in various parts of the Assembly Hall. This bill, in effect, has been privatizing a number of other things. It is privatizing sounds, colors, flavors, smells, numbers, and so forth. This results in a marked dilation of the monologue court of ideas and experiences and is in this case in the form of a product label. I don't think it's a good development. This is a dangerous trend. This is a trend that we might have been able to prevent by a better interest guard for Iceland in Europe, but I guess this is how it's gonna be. I just wanted to warn you about it here and, of course, say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u182	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in housing law which allows housing to be given to the first buyers and to those who have not owned an apartment. Five years of loans to meet your own budget when shopping for an apartment for your own use. The point of this bill is that the government set it as one of its aims in a government conspiracy presented on November 30, 2017, to improve the status of young and earners of a housing market. That, in fact, is what the Bible The government will take measures that will lower the threshold of young people and that will cut down the housing market. In this respect, public support systems will be reviewed so that support will be used primarily to those groups. In the ensuing of a collective agreement, the winter winter was 2018/2019, the government arranged for an increasing supply of apartments and other measures to improve housing status. By doing this, the government launched a comprehensive consultation on housing with the establishment of the collective body of the labour market, rural society, Department of Social Affairs, Economic and Economic Affairs and Presidency Ministry. The campaign group provided suggestions for seven groups in a total of 40 teams with a report presented on 19 January 2019. The proposals were based on contracts called biographies, as shown in a declaration of government support to biographer contracts of day 18. April 3, 2018. It is stated that the government will work on the implementation of a housing initiative group in agreement with the labour market partners and with the local labour market partners and that the Commission, then the establishment of the Substitution Fund, will be assigned to keep out of the follow-up of the campaign in agreement with the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Ministers, the Transport and Department of Transport and Resources, the Environment and Resources Department, and the project has been promised to be held up to the 1997. At the same time, a special group were appointed to review the position of the first buyer, who eventually slipped into this work. That group was led by Frosti, son of Sigurjónsson, former General. Was one of the main proposals of the group to add a special share loan to a Scottish model. As mentioned earlier, this is part of the biographer agreements. So the bill is an important factor in the management of Iceland's government to cover the development of collective labour agreements. Its objective is to make changes in housing laws to deal with the present housing failures and to make it easier for young and money - stricken people to have their own housing. At the same time, the goal of the bill is to support Iceland's construction and to increase the number of practical apartments that are suitable for young people who are buying their first apartment. Despite extensive construction of apartments over the last few years, they have been either built on animal areas or large, thus less suitable for the low income and property of those who are buying their first apartments. A significant decrease has been observed recently since 2018 and the long-term effects of Covid-19 have not been fully elucidated. It is obvious that after just two years, there will be a serious shortage of housing. It is especially important, then, now to provide resources that encourage further construction and supply at an economic facility to prevent housing shortage and to reduce the anticipated decline in the building market. In addition to increasing the number of affordable apartments, the damage to young people and the threat of earning a place of their own. The bill was formed in the cooperation of Homing and Civilization Institute and Social Affairs and is based on the work of a legal committee appointed in the fall of 2019, with representatives of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, Social Affairs, and Adolescents. Extensive consultations were also made with the labour market partners and the European Union. It was particularly enjoyable in this work to find out how good partnerships were between the government and the labour market to go this way and also in the outline of its implementation. During the past few weeks, there has also been an evaluation and further development of the work force by the Ministry of Presidency, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, and the Ministry of Social Affairs. A respectable president. The bill expects a new chapter, VI. section A, should be added to housing laws. The chapter will carry the name Bank and contain four new articles that explain the terms of the loan and the terms of share loans. As the divine name reveals, the amount of credit answers to a certain share in buying real estate. When it comes to paying off the loan, the reimbursement value of the loan is the same proportion as that of the original loans. If real-estate prices have increased the sum of the loan and the reimbursement in such a way. However, if real - estate prices have dropped, the pay will be reduced. The loans are intended solely for buyers under certain limits that are buying their first property or that have not owned it. For five years, they need help with their own budget requirements to obtain their own housing. Thus, it is directed to young people who are taking their first step in a real estate market but are also designed to meet those who lost their homes after the economic collapse and who have been stuck in a rented market since then. As a result, government housing support is increasingly directed toward income groups with the goal that they can have their own housing and thus contribute to their security and financial independence, thus reducing the possibility of providing support for the future. In general, the share loans are expected to add up to 20% of prices to 5% of the buyer's financial contributions, but it is permitted to provide up to 30% of share loans to the busiest groups. There are certain conditions that the applicant needs to meet for share loans. He will have to pass the payment rate due to the housing bar that will be taken to finance the purchases and loans from these loans must be no more than 40% of the individual's resources. The applicant must always have at least 5% of the property prices and must show that he cannot buy property without support. It is expected that the share loan will be guaranteed by other mortgages in the property, without pay, and usually it does not grow during the loan period. If your income goes up for three years in a row, interest payments will start from the loan. This guarantees that government support will only benefit those who need it. At the decision of the wax, the management of the House and Manicults Agency takes into account the cost of mortgages. The loan is so reimbursed on sale, although not later than 25 years later, that borrower may have paid off the loans he borrowed and may not have an advantage for financial recovery. However, a borrower can pay the loan sooner if he chooses to, e.g. if it offers a favorable refund. In fact, experience in both Scotland and England is that the average life span of these loans is only about five years. These loans have been new in Scotland and England, and we have benefited greatly from cooperation with the Department of Living in these two countries, especially in Scotland. Share loans are only borrowed to new and practical apartments. This is guided by the fact that the options have been mentioned as affecting real estate prices in general and do not encourage the increase in housing prices in real estate markets. The bill assumes that the maximum amount of dwelling regulations required will be set in the regulations set out in the regulations as well as in the number of rooms according to the size of the family. Since a minister can change the terms of the Regulation, it is better to control the resources under the market, with the aim that it will have the least impact on the prices of a real estate market than at the same time achieve one of the objectives of the resource that is increasing the incentive to build an economic home and ensure increased production of such facilities on the land. Prior to a share loan, the applicant must have purchased an apartment that has already been approved by a Housing House and Managing Institute as a suitable flat on the basis of the company's contract with the Agency. It is expected that the Agency will negotiate with a contractor who will build apartments that will be recognized as a suitable apartment. The sources of the Homing House and Human Resources Agency to lend interest to share loans will be limited to financial contributions to the mortgage party at any time. If financial legislation has been completed, the Homing and Managing Agency is not allowed to agree to a loan application despite the applicant's fulfilling the requirements. Share loans are expected to be provided for the purchase of 400 efficient innovations per year and to re-evaluate by the end of ten years. This number, 400 apartments, has been found, including in cooperation with the commercial world itself, with the industry itself, and was thought to be the population that could be built according to existing plans. A respectable president. The main objective of the government on housing is to provide security and to make real choices for the inhabitants of the land. To that end, we need to secure the stability of housing markets and contribute to the steady state between supply and demand for housing. Well, if you ask me, well, if you'd like to meet both the supply and demand side, it'll be possible. Because of the conditions set up in the cost-separation bill, it can be expected that there will be a significant increase in the availability of cost-effective apartments as well as an increase in the number of apartments suitable for the first buyers, but according to rural needs and rural housing programmes there is a need for practical housing throughout the country. This building will also create a number of jobs in a structure market that is not unnecessary in the current labour market. Substitution loans are designed to support those in need of assistance in building their own housing. A recent biography study shows that the income of people aged 20 to 929 years has dropped substantially as a proportion of earnings in their 40's. More and more early buyers need the help of parents and other employees to cover their own financial expenses, but not everyone is in the position to collect such reserves. Research shows that nearly 90% of tenants prefer to live in their own housing. By means of sharing loans, we can increase the availability of income - poor families and first buyers to a secure and efficient homemaking facility at an affordable level. We all need a roof over our heads and housing security as a major factor in government prosperity. A respectable president. Looking forward to the discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. General welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u183	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for review and celebrates the fact that this bill has been passed, and the case is very important, part of a biographer contract. I'd like to start by asking the highest. A minister sincerely whether he will assume that the matter will be settled by the end of a council, where two meetings will be expected. At the same time, the welfare committee is being reassigned. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to the current income campaign for the bill, but people who made biographies do not know that they have agreed and that biographies are being compromised. Third, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it is legal to require candidates that the support of the state be conditioned that they take out their special property, whether it is legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u184	A respectable president. A minister brings the matter into the council and recommends it. The pay rate of the case, or in what way a person sees himself doing it, is then in the hands of the Council Committee and the Generals. As soon as I understand the need to take time to review matters, consider them, receive visitors, and consider all sides, it is also important that this matter be settled as soon as possible. for individuals who can take advantage of the resources and the general construction market. I think it is clear that the committee has to consider how it can be handled. The minister realizes that the end of the council is a short time, but I am convinced that if the committee works fast and well, it can be done. On the other hand, I say that it is in the hands of the committee in what way it will take over the matter. The minister doesn't give orders. In terms of income, there was a bill for share loans. [[The president calls.]] There have been some changes, and this is not unusual in the prosthesis. [[The president calls.]] But I don't think there should be any direct impact on the fact that we're doing this bill even if there are some differences in its views. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's not unnatural in big cases. I'll answer the second question later and apologize to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u185	In that case, the president makes it a point to remind the speakers to respect the lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u186	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and look forward to hearing the answer to the question. This is with the discussion, and this is not the case. It's been 14 months since the biographies were signed. If something is important before the end of the council, I think it is a fundamental premeditation of professional management to bring a bill into the council in time, especially when the case has not been handled in consultations and not to be passed on to the members of a biographer agreement. Then I ask the highest. When it is clear that part of that period goes off to anything other than committee work, the minister of this bill is now coming, about two weeks before the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u187	A respectable president. First with regard to the income roof: It is set for support primarily to benefit from the groups it is used for, low - income groups. The goal is to reach those groups. I believe that everything in this bill is legal, whether it's income roof, property savings or anything else. On the other hand, there may be differences in opinions about individual developments, and there is nothing wrong with that. In view of the late beginning of the bill, it is clear that we have made major arrangements in housing, and when radical measures are being taken on the basis of housing, of course it is designed to be for whom. Not everyone agrees on making some sort of move on all matters. That's the way it is in life. Hv. A senator mentioned something. I would have wanted this bill to appear sooner than it needed a conversation and more cooperation. This big operation, however, is in here, and I am thrilled because it will be of great importance to a large group of earners of the first few. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u188	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for history. It will be interesting and exciting to get this case into a welfare committee for processing. A minister earlier answered a question that I was wondering why it's so late. There is an answer, and there is no need to dwell on it. So I'd like to mention my custom back, and I'd like to have the highest thoughts. Minister because the matter is subject to him in this department. Does he share with me the concern that there is a certain tendency to do so when it comes to the economy and if there is a harsh economic pressure to open to special people? Initially, he was thinking of everything else. When this was first done in 10◯12 years ago, a warning message was given that the majority of people ended their years of work and that by then they used their special savings in all kinds, not to help themselves in later years when work was over, but to endure during the work. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear the highest thoughts. Minister on this particular point.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u189	A respectable president. I thank the senator. In general, I believe, and it was part of the lifetime agreement, that we, in turn, should not only use the special kickback but also specify the special property, which is actually part of obligation or 3.5%. This is one of the proposed agreements in the lifetime document agreements, and this will be the case with basics here. It's the highest. The secretary of finance who has the responsibility to contribute, and this was part of the biographer contract. In general, I believe that it is wise to help people find their own real estate. I also believe that it is wise to make some kind of use of the pension system, whether it is a custom or part of the general savings system. For older ones, having possessions in their own homes can be important. We have received information that it would have made a difference for older ones if they had had had their own home when they made it. So I have been a spokesman for the use of a part of Penitentiary to support the purchase of first estate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u190	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answer. I wondered here in the second round condition of new apartments. The minister explained that it was to stop what could be the result, i.e. Increasing real estate prices. It is spoken of as a maximum of 400 apartments. I don't know, I suppose it's one of those things the welfare committee is wondering if they're gonna be able to influence the overall price of housing. We need the answer because it has a specific opportunity for people to take possession of their own territory, but it is such meditation. In terms of innovation's goals, I would have liked to see that some sort of change in building rules that most people know are bound up with and perhaps the ones that are most vulnerable to innovation in this business. I'd like to ask the highest. For more information, please contact the branch office of Jehovah's Witnesses that serves your country. 2, with President's permission: It is only possible to borrow new apartments that have been approved by the House and Managing Agency as an economic facility on the basis of the company of the developer at the Agency. I'm interested in hearing more about this deal, because there's something I'm wondering about how we could be creating a channel or leading a party and not someone else. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I can't figure out what they're talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u191	A respectable president. First, the building order. It is also part of a biographer contract that we have made a commitment to simplify our building order. We have a bill in the form of a work-in plan, which would have been submitted to a council if it had not been made by Covid, but it will be submitted by the fall council. In terms of the agreement on these new apartments, we are just working after a model from England and Scotland, which is actually based on a contractor who meets the requirements for a more practical apartment, which will make better conversation with the industry, when he begins the apartment as practical. Then the clock for the person involved will be escorted through the building process, and the person who buys it may look for these loans for that apartment. Really, that's all that's behind it. It's not about choosing who gets to wear apartments or who doesn't, it's just that the plunger that is needed to get a share loan started before you leave, so that the person knows it when he is looking at apartments on real estate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u192	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. As mentioned here, everyone needs a roof over his head and I take my heart under it. However, the scope of the proposed arrangement is about 3.7 billion a year, as the report puts it, which is a lot of money. This is to be discussed in a very short time, only done in a few days, and as a member of the budget committee I feel a little steep in the state's office, etc. What I wanted to come up with is that we also need to look to the experience in these matters. Nothing went very well when the camp loan fund was then decided to offer extra loans, so - called hat loans, with the savings at market competition at its time. It didn't go well. You ask: Isn't it really so that taxpayers are paying interest on loans to a certain group of people? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's no such thing as interest-free loan, that's just the way it is. [[The president calls.]] If the highest. A minister may be able to internalize this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u193	A respectable president. Of course, it is the political decision of the government, as I traced into my speech, to emphasize that the public money is new to support the busiest groups in society. That's what we'll do with this plan. We're using state money, interestless, to support the busiest community groups so that they can get a roof over their heads like the rest of them. Why? Because it has been shown that the busiest groups are the tenants of the tenants. In the past ten years, it has been shown that it is primarily those groups that have been nested in a rented market but at the same time have shown research that in about 90% of them, they want to get into their own housing. These are families, these are children's families, and it is also a cost for the government not to be able to create them and these delicate groups of housing safety, thus preventing, such as, abduction. between school for children, rootlessness, and such. So we're making a political decision, huh? A senator, to support the most lucrative groups, and we make them proud and contented. [[The president calls.]] I'm so glad we're doing it with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u194	Mr. President. Of course, it is a political decision to buy an apartment and to have only 5% in it really. But the mind is good, it's just a matter of methodology. That's what I'm coming on. What I'd also like to stress is that this is a matter of enforcing. Now it is clear that conditions are quite strict for those who are supposed to take advantage of their resources. But there are also exceptions. They are the ones who lost their home in the collapse of the economy, and they have not been able to raise money, that is, twelve years since. For one thing, it is a way of life that many people have the same amount of energy to store up for houses, etc. The question is, isn't it a misunderstanding? Will the Minister or Ministry choose those who receive an exception? This is an interesting law of 1st. Twenty-nine. about the score of income. What about those who are right over there? There must be some dissatisfaction there. [[The president calls.]] I feel a bit complicated when it comes to leaving, and we know that they can often create great dissatisfaction. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u195	A respectable president. Yes, enforcation can, of course, create a complexity. However, I think it's important that there are some exceptions. They are not designed for specific groups but are designed to deal with any peripheral situation called after the need for action. What to say. A senator saying that people are mistaken to gather, I would like to say that I sense that he is actually saying, "Why are we doing this? Don't people just need to be more active? Of course, not everyone in the community can. For example, a person may have the means to pay off loans in order to obtain and make his own money. In my case, for example, when I bought my first apartment, I borrowed from my father-in-law. It wasn't on very high interest, it was on relatively low interest. But not everyone is in the position of being able to go to Mom and Dad, Mom - in - law, Dad - in - law, grandparents, and borrow. We're thinking of helping people who do not have the safety network but who want to get into their own homes and make their own money and who have money to pay for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u196	A respectable president. I don't really have much to say about a lot of things around here. But there is one thing I especially want to ask the highest. Minister for. Here's the word, Mr. President's permission: At credit time, there is more than the income limit according to 1 mg. Twenty-nine. a shall be borrowed from the share loan by Housing and Managing Organization, as borrowing has been over the pay limits of the past three almanac years. The budget should be paid monthly, and the management of the Homing and Managing Agency should take into account the housing costs of the decision made. I don't know what to say. How do you think, first of all, about spying on your pay? What, then, is a normal raise? How in the world can a host of people have their fingers in addition to deciding how to grow up on their own? Just have totalitarian right there: listen, we're going to have this interest, just because he got 1,000 bucks. a higher salary?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u197	A respectable president. This is one of the rules, which is a good reason to discuss in what ways it is wise to have. On the other hand, I hope that the senator is not silent before I answer to this matter that he counts on this basis alone that a good thing has become bad. But what I want to say about this is that the reason for this is that people are thinking that support is first and last of the groups that are in this busiest of society's laws. On the other hand, if a person makes a very good progress in life, makes a very lucrative position, has a very high level of payment, accepts interest in encouraging the return of the funds so that it can be reassigned to someone in the position in which this person was in before he borrowed it. That's the thought behind this. There's evidence in this subject. However, I don't think it's a crucial point whether this case is good or bad because I think it will achieve its objective very well, whether it is this way or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u198	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. But it's giving the House and Manor Institute a ludicrous authority over interest, over pay. And I say for my part: if a person gets into such a great position, take me as an example, of disability at a senator's salary, I don't think this person will be much longer inside this system. He'll move out of it. Because it's not a request, you have to go to a certain place. There's a certain person who's building this thing. What I'm afraid of, too, is that I'm about to be making a bit of a Ghetto: here's the lowest wage. Here they go in boxes made out of containers, arranged because it's supposed to be so cheap. All of you are being pushed on the edge of town: This is where you should be because you don't make enough money. Are the rest of us supposed to be somewhere else?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u199	A respectable president. I don't share that opinion. A senator's claim that this contributes to some kind of conception, as opposed to the fact that the people who produce the apartments keep it within certain limits. They want to get the money back so that the loans are reimbursed or reimbursed, as it is in Scotland, where most loans are reimbursed after some number of years. That is not to say that individuals move out of their apartment, they may continue living in the apartment, but they reimburse the loans. I don't find it unnatural to wonder if it's not wise to grow when you go over a certain income so that the support of a government fund will be available to those who have less income and that we charge on it. All in all, I understand the criticism. Senator. This can be debated, but I don't think it's a factor, let's say.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u200	A respectable president. The rules are so that no one can ask for a speech or an answer until the discussion begins. I noticed especially that when I asked for an answer when the talk began, I could not find that because others had started off and had already asked for an answer before the talk began. This is particularly unfortunate when there are five groups of government opposition. This has happened more than once, and I think it should definitely be taken into account, especially in the case of the minister's objection. I was going to ask a minister a few things when he came up here. I'm trying to put the amount together in this: 25 years, 100,000, 175,000 in a down payment capacity, 40 million. K. The average real estate, 410 contracts every year, just new apartments. It's all splattered up so I can't find the people who can meet the conditions. You can't pass payoffs. You just have to be able to pass credit if they're entitled to share loans. And no one is left, I think, who can have access to these apartments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u201	A respectable president. I'd also like to discuss it in the conference board when more members of Congress want to give an answer but have an opportunity. I think it's right for President to look at it. However, I'm not going to use a meeting board to answer it. Senator. However, I am ready to give a talk. A senator who puts himself on the rosary later in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u202	A respectable president. I wanted to come to the conference board and say, "What?" paritaprevir Because I asked for an answer and a talk a little later than that. Leví Helga Vala Helgadóttir. I was next to her in the talk, but I did not. 4 answers, in effect, had to squeeze me into the answers because I wasn't inside them even though I had been with the first ones who asked for it. It's a problem we have to solve at some point. There are five opposing sides and only four of them can reach. That's why it's too boring to have a system like this, and I don't understand why five groups can't be allowed to respond.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u203	The president takes full responsibility for this and hopes that at the same time he will be ready to go. Councilmen tolerate this unconventional meeting board. Let us hope that when the demand is greater than the supply, it will be resolved in a discussion of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u204	Mr. President. This bill to correct a change in housing law, share loan, has entered the council. I'm glad because I think it's a very important thing. Of course, we are trying to improve the housing market and to seize those who are in the greatest difficulty, so it is vital that the quality of the house be done. This is part of the biographer contract adopted 14 months ago or so. I might have wanted to see the matter come in earlier because it's very urgent. I'm glad it's here. This arrangement, share loan, has given fine experiences in many parts of the world, so I hope that we have the best fortune to make it seem good for us too. Maybe that's why you're a little bit over the pace, that it's coming right before the end of the council. But I'm not gonna spend all my time on it. The bill was ready, I understand, three months ago. It hasn't been done on the plot, it hasn't been signed by those in the lifetime agreements. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. Of course, the welfare committee will call all the people to us because we need to see if the bill meets the requirements of that contract. Is the government going to live up to the biographer contract? Is this matter being accelerated through the council, or will it slowly ease and be recorded in the autumn? It is not in the hands of the one standing, in contrast to the highest. The minister said before, because it is the greater part of the program that goes to the council Hall, the president of the Senate arranged matters, and we tried, just so that it is held in place, as we were able today to have this case sooner on the program so that it could be discussed on a committee and sent to a review immediately, because I think it is very important. Then the bill. When the applicant is not able to finance his own house - to - house spending unless he or she has a share loan he has the right to borrow that. The Tesseract's in a lot of places. This must be the first real estate, or the individual does not own it. Five years and less than seven and a half million each year's income is made by an individual or less than ten and a half million a year. This is 630,000 in total wage for an individual and 880,000 in total pay for married couples altogether. I know my conversations with various people that they were shocked, i.e. persons involved in the biographer contracts because this can make them, when they have this low income, do not get credit for the available apartments. We did an informal survey at the United States Group, and we studied only what the situation is in our new apartments today. It's very complicated, at least in the capital area, getting a new apartment for less than 45 million. We found one. I realize that it is planned to lend to buildings and make contracts with those who are building and such, but it must still be for normal people. They are missing in the bill definitions of new apartments and suitable apartments. The way it's going to be all there is to be a better time. It is worth pointing out, then, that loans are limited to financial resources for the mortgage party at any given time, as shown here in the A- force 2. .., to the final part of the month, which says, by permission of the president: ▪ If the budget has been completed, it is forbidden to accept a loan application even if the applicant meets the requirements for it. In other words, this bill is designed to make it easy for discrimination to occur over the time of the year because the funds that the General Assembly may be uprooted. This, of course, is not very promising, especially when we're both doing it this way and giving share loans only to new apartments. Old apartments can't be loaned. Of course, the environment is narrower. The general conditions are, of course, to pass payment, loans on the first mortgage must not be longer than 25 years, and you should be on the 7th terms b-joints 2 gr. The bill defends the tax-free provision of special savings to reduce the capital of mortgage on first mortgage. I asked the highest. A minister earlier, whether this was legal or not, did not get the answer. But I think there must be one of the questions we face. A welfare committee needs to ask experts that I am not quite sure that the legislatator can condition official support in a way that allows people to control their future savings at the same time. I don't think the lawgiver has any authority to do that. We'll inquire about it. People are concerned that these are most useful to those who are newly written, new at work, and less pay, but not to older ones, those who may have lost their home in the crash, to those who have been long or possibly always in the rented market because of the commitment. D-joins 2. The bill calls my attention to the extensive regulations given to the minister. I'm only thinking about how much conditions are put in there about how the building is made, etc. There are many factors in the world today that make a decision. It is also important to note that the loan is not to be extended without the approval of the Homing House and Engineing Agency. You wonder how it works, for example. those who are just out of school and may briefly go to college, whether or not they will be authorized, whether a minister will provide special permission for such rules or how they are. I'm not gonna hold up the discussion much longer. I'm glad this comes out, but it seems to me on the bill that there's a lot of work to be done for it and a lot of answers to it. At the end, a respectable president, I'd like to mention only what is presented in a-team 2. The bill, which says, by permission of the President: The mortgage is granted on other mortgages after the mortgage is passed on to the consumers' home loans and does not have interest or payments during the loan period. Thus, a respectable president, in his loans, is that conversation at first and second mortgages or first, second and third mortgages must never be more than 30 million dollars, the conversations of all loans that depend on property under the rules of the Homic and Human Resources Agency must never be more than 30 million dollars. Those with old apartment loan loan loans that may be at second or third mortgages and who now stand in debt due to more favorable loans, such as the market today, have been exposed to the first-secured awards of Hussequera and Human Resources Agency. Of course, it's shocking that a public agency like Housekeeping and Human Beings will act in this way, but these are the rules. As these are the rules, that a maximum number of loans, together with credit loans, may exceed 30 million, if property is not to be more than 30 million, you wonder what sort of government apartments you can imagine that you can buy, those who get a possible share loan. You wonder, then, which family will be able to take advantage of this, since families with children can hardly find such a humble home. But I hope we'll work this fast and well and professionally, if more of the Committee permits. If you don't, I'll just thank you for the fact that this bill has come out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u205	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in housing laws, share loans. Unfortunately, I have to say, it's amazing how this case is set up. As noted earlier, I am, in effect, speechless to the awesome power gained by a Homemaking agency, both for the interest scale and for the follow-up of pay factors. She's becoming like a king of the apartment loan nation and has an incredible power that I believe is far beyond what can be considered normal in a government agency; she can even decide whether to grow. I just don't understand that it's not at least post any interest it may bring on these blessed loans that people have to pay. Nor does it say how much money we can make. They can increase by 1,000 bucks. a month or 10,000 or 100,000 times.? Will the interest be 1, 2 or 5%? This is simply remarkable. There's another thing I'm afraid of. This is made clear in the bill, or verbal, of the President's permission: It is only possible to borrow new apartments that have been approved by the House and Managing Agency as an economic facility on the basis of the company of the developer at the Agency. What does this tell us? Yes, there's a deal to be negotiated in advance. First, then, you need to find cheap weights, and then you need to see how expensive the packaging can be built on that property. I saw the figures: four rooms an apartment, 42.5 million. It was in a magazine the other day. I don't know if it's right, but if it's the right thing to say, I don't know which apartment you're offering. I saw a video building an apartment in Sweden and a container piled up, one on top of the other. I imagine it's cheap. As I said in answer to them, I'm afraid they're building an apartment building where we say, "These houses are as cheap as they can, and here they are, the lowest earners. " It would suck if we did. That's why I can't understand that this is the way it's being declared. I know about people who have been renting and renting for over 200,000 bucks. a month, but they don't get payment to buy an apartment and pay 100,000 dollars. per month. How wrong is it that we are in such a position to be told people out there: you just rent, pay $200,000.? But if they found a home and even borrowed 100 percent and paid for it, there would be 100,000 dollars. In a month they say, No. If there could be 5% in the house, you could pay for it, they say, "No, you don't get payment. You can just keep renting for 200,000 bucks and being completely starving. There's a situation. Where, though, can you get such an inexpensive store? Yes, we could probably have them in the next rural society, perhaps at the Acdéri, in the village, or in Whos. What, then, are we doing? Are we going to crash transport? Say to people: " You have such a low income that you can't be in Reykjavík, get out of town? ' I know that people in a rural community in the capital area were told when they tried to seek help: You don't have a chance to live in this community. You have to go to the country if you're going to try to live a decent life. That's a little strange. Another factor is that there may be only 400 apartments per year for the next ten years. If this time there's gonna be a huge offense, you don't know what it's gonna be like, maybe there'll be some No. 401 and he needs housing far more than the person who is no. 279, much worse. But they tell him he has to wait a year, go back in line. Is there no plan B if there is a great need and a fast application of 600 to700 people? Should they wait for one year or two? Suppose a family has settled down in a local rented home, brought the children to school, and wanted to remain in the local community. There is a new building that she might consider going to. It may be 5 to 6 million. K. More expensive than the new earmark may be purchased. It's just a matter of saying to people, " You can't buy this, you have to tear up your children, go to another school or nursery, go to some neighborhood. ' This is not normal and is not normal and is, in effect, ridiculous. I tell all of us in here, none of us would want to be treated like this. Let's just keep things the way they are. If we're talking about people being allowed only to invest in a new apartment, they're choosing their own apartment. Let us keep the financial standards a little bed so that people can do this. We know that people are wise, 99% they are very sensible and are not going to do anything stupid, but they want to get rid of the scary high rent and try to own some life and pay the exact amount of money so that they can live. Another thing I saw is that 30 or 40% of income can go into it. [[Up to 40%.]] Yeah, that 40% of income could go on. If we take a person who has 300,000K. payable immediately to see that person does not receive payment. There are obstacles. I really hope that we can get an interest agency and others to the welfare committee and try to straighten things up and do it better. I can only imagine the purpose of making the matter even. that we accept it and work better, try to find out who the need is, and how to do this. Then I think we're all right. They have to change their income targets, they're too sharp. We're trying to rule out a team that's not really good at all, and it's a expensive rental. We know of people who have as many as $300,000. at rent costs and to live up to them, a lot of income is needed. Imagine a married couple with 700,000 bucks. Down payment, 50 percent of their income goes renting. As long as you're in that position, you can't collect, you can't. Then I have to agree with what. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir, when she pointed out that there is something to consider, that there is a requirement for a special possession. For how long? Twenty-five years or until the loan is paid off or who is in charge of it? Is it a Housing and Civilization Institute that controls how long you will need to use your special savings? There is no such thing as the matter of finding a conclusion. I'm not gonna have this any further. We will discuss this well and carefully on the welfare committee and again when the matter returns to the council, but the most terrible thing is that we should handle this case before July 1. I don't know how to do it on a welfare committee with all other issues. It'll be a bit of a puzzle, but hopefully we'll make it. And hopefully you'll have to do it like everybody else. This is a challenge, and we accept it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u206	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a new loan system for less income groups. As I mentioned in reverse, every roof over his head needs to be covered. So there is much to do to make sure that the matter is well worked. Many remain unsatisfied in this matter. It has to do with a considerable amount of money, as mentioned earlier, 3.7 billion dollars, and when government funds need to be maintained in all areas, this is an increase in expenses every year. Many things need to be considered carefully. It therefore surprises me, Mr. President, what will be resolved in a short period of time. It is simply necessary to get careful comments and opinions from most people who are familiar with this category within the committee so that the work will be fully carried out and all about the matter will be fully completed. The bill provides access to the Homeland and Human Relations Agency to provide the first buyers who make money under the specific limits of the so-called share loans. The loans can study up to 20% of the purchase price of housing. They carry no interest, and the loan is not paid until an apartment is sold. The maximum loan time of share loans is 25 years, and after that the government should repay the loan had not been sold. The objective is to have a place of dwelling for the needy. That in itself is a noble goal, and we in the Middle Ages agree with it. According to one report, the estimated number of so - called viable apartments will be over the years between 340 and 710 apartments per year. In these figures, the ratio of the cost of a more efficient, new apartment of the total supply is expected to be in the range of 18◯26%. The bill's report also shows that the total supply of new apartments in 2018 was over 1,500 apartments, of which 18%, a total of 280, can be classified as practical. These numbers contain new apartments in the P.A. number 101. They are, as we know, often more expensive, and are not classified as practical apartments. The plan estimates that the annual supply of new apartments will increase by 203/4.80% compared with 2018. The budget is 3.7 billion, just over 400 loans, as the report says. Clearly, this strategy is a small procedure in relation to need. The political element in this matter is that taxpayers are expected to pay interest from loans as Ministers, or Housing and Mobilization agencies, to assign interest to a certain group of people. All right, this is the government decision and the point of whether this is the only right way is probably different. Therefore, all jobs are needed on the committee's behalf. It must be said, as it is, that it is an amazing scheme to resolve a case that costs 3.7 billion in a few days as if nothing is taken for granted. The political part is that taxpayers have interest instead of borrowing. And how normal is that? That is a question humans must answer. The invention of a particular group in the community is being promoted by taxpayers. I said it in answer to the highest. Ministers that we had experience with similar arrangements, perhaps not just like this, but when the camp loan fund decided at its time, with the savings and market competition, to offer extra loans called hat loans, and their experience was not good. This attracts attention and has been noted in the news that nothing is said about what happens if the value of real estate is reduced. It is always said that the government will be successful if the house is rising at its price and it is useful to consider an example taken in a press release on the Board's web, where the prices for real estate are 40 million. K. and share loans make up to 20% of the price value or 8 million. K. Ten years later, the property is sold for 50 million dollars. K. 20% is reimbursed, unless the share is now calculated by the new real estate price, which accounts for the reimbursement of 10 billion. K. or, as the announcement says: ◯ This way the state that lenders also benefit from the rise in real estate prices, unlike other creditors in housing markets. But what if the property is sold for 30 million or 40 million? K.? Would it not be reasonable to consider the same example? I can't figure it out, Madam President, how many people can take advantage of this. The balance of income and these strict conditions has been considered, and at the end of this period, perhaps few may take advantage of the measures. The committee must be carefully considered. That's why I say again and again that trying to get it over with right now is amazing work. We do not know how many real estates meet the requirements for the buyer to receive these loans, and conditions seem to be strict. V.E.G. In his background, a minister mentioned the need to assist children's families who had little time left to have their own home. But what kind of home is available? That's the big question. What's the aim of the more part of the city's city of Reykjavík? Is she not building a very small apartment, almost a type of closet, that is over the heads of predators? The smallest apartments cost up to 30 million. K. I don't think we're gonna put families in these apartments. This has to go over, and it's perfectly normal. Clearly, builders see opportunities to build apartments for this particular target group. Then, as mentioned here in the conversation that I don't like, people may have been dejected. The political question is, Is it possible for people to buy an apartment with an apartment of 5% credit? I'm sure there's a debate about the income targets and those on the line. The bill contains an interesting principle at 2 Timothy 3: 1. Gr., which will be 1st. Twenty-nine. a in the law, but ASI has criticized the income target. There a minister is authorized in a Regulation to state a list of payouts due to the applicant's specific circumstances, unusually high cost of living, or to those who lost their housing during the collapse and who have not been able to collect money. The secretary and the Ministry are asked to select those who should be given an exception. Here we are, in a questionable and difficult place. I think it's going to be a good idea on the Committee if this is desirable. And so is the power given to Houses and Human Resources. She needs to agree to the apartment as a suitable apartment. Then, in my opinion, we're in some sort of controlled planning. So there are many matters of opinion, Madam President, and many things remain unsettled. I think the matter needs to be handled very carefully, as I have emphasized. I repeat, though, that it is important to find a solution for those who have long had to live in a rented home and want to have their own housing understandably. However, it is entirely different whether this is the right way and the right conditions. It must be carefully considered, considered, and reviewed. We all agree that as many of us as possible should have a roof over our heads. We also need to put forth effort. Everyone has to try to collect something, but people vary when they earn less than they can. But I have certain doubts about what is suggested here, conditions, etc. My conclusion is to review the case on the committee carefully and to examine all existing matters of opinion. It's not too quick to make such a move. The government could easily have brought the matter into the council much earlier so that they could get a careful consideration. This costs up to 4 billion a year. There is a considerable amount of money when the money in the state is faced with a great crowd. It is written on the government how late the matter is, so it is important to recognize that it needs to be given a good time and to answer all the facts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u207	Madam President. I'm not going to extend the discussion much, but I'd like to take this opportunity and say a few words on this subject, maybe least to celebrate that it's going to go on, if I read this right on the program, that we'll be able to finish 1st. ... aboutthisnight. It's important that we get it right away to the committee on Monday because there's so much to consider, especially in view of the fact that if things go along and we're going to try to get it over with this case, we're not going to go through the traditional Congress treatment with reviews and visitors for weeks, as perhaps the scope of the case and the innovation of it will require. The more important it is, and I hope to the highest. Ministers get the message, even though he was shocked, that the Ministry that will be arriving at us right after the weekend with information may first answer the questions we have. There are a lot of things here, many of the conditions and many grounds that are laid out in this case that must rest on the information and summarise the data, I'll take into account what we won't have time to go on our own as per standard practice of concierge treatment. It is therefore wish that we have it as readily as possible. I must mention in particular what I feel about this first fast round most difficult to understand in this matter. It's a good goal, and I get it. I realize this connection with the biographies agreements. All of us know how difficult the facility is and how difficult it has been to find it to be for young people. There are information that is clearly presented here, and it is harder for these groups to succeed. It's very good that we're facing it. But I don't quite understand the requirement that you can only lend money for new apartments. We've been over this before and I've heard a minister's answers, but I need the evidence back there. There are all kinds of grounds where we need to verify. - It's time to go to the top. Minister to the hall, and then I'm gonna take this opportunity and say it again, and I'm gonna make sure that when the Ministry comes, we're going to get this information right out of the way. We won't have time to call for them any different. When I'm at the highest. One minister says, "We're gonna do this to avoid openings, so I've asked: Has this particular number of apartments that were chosen by themselves, but people would get this help on the market? I find it easier to understand the evidence that followed the decision to protect the government's investment because new apartments are more likely to keep their worth. Yet, there is little that keeps its value better than an apartment, if taken care of it, and some even raise their price. Others turn down like a curve. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's dwellers pointed out. Often, new apartments are the first ones to lower because neighborhoods are of that nature, they are not established and mature. So there are all kinds of variables in this and I feel very steep, considering the data I have here, to assume that this will work out with the conditions of new apartments. This results in a measure of sacrifice. This means putting the death toll on people's freedoms to choose a farm if necessary and to take advantage of these provisions. This can have consequences of all kinds. The thought of the ghetto that came up here, I don't really fear it, but it's once so that here we're not only thinking that young people who are taking their first steps and who are the nature of the case because of flexibleness--I think we know a lot that the first apartment may not be wishing in all respects except for that she was the first apartment -- we're also working for a group of people who are under contracted with children and who have either been rented long, stuck there, or have had an apartment that has not had it for some reason anymore. In other words, people who have already taken root somewhere. I don't see the evidence of entering and making decisions for this group as to where to buy. I don't see that argument at the moment. Then there's something else that I look forward to and that's going into what a suitable apartment means. When I read the text, I think it's a common sense for people to go for growth, as it was in the past, in terms of their size and financial abilities. That's when we're talking about all the apartments falling under it too. That's very interesting. There will continue to be talk of power, if you want to call it, a Housing and Civilization Organization to make decisions. I wondered when we talk about new and practical apartments based on the agency's contract: Are we talking about how the deal is made first and then the apartment built or this applies to an apartment that was built last year? She's new. After the case has been legalized, does it agree? It's a bit complicated. I look forward to the discussion on these matters. I also find a perimeter in this whole thing, and it's a very exciting discussion with my special savings. I heard what was going on. The minister answered me and his opinion of using his special property arm to get a roof over his head. There are many ways in which I can say that this involves a number of pensions. This, however, is a turning point from what was expected when the law was given in its own time. Then we are making a decision again. If we begin to bend gradually toward a special pension form, it is a conversation that needs to be handled in a slightly larger way. It also has an effect that many have fear, perhaps rightfully in the history of, a partnership with the common pension savings and fears of those with high levels of special interest, that there will be an intervention in another pension plan, not that there is a reason for it here, and now to believe that it will be. But I mention this because all the intervention in people's pensions, whether it is a common pension savings or a custom savings which is expedient on the basis of law, is to be discussed differently than in a special operation here, despite the fact that it is based on so-called biographies. It's fine. I look forward to dealing with it within the welfare committee. I'm glad we finish the 1st. That's what we're doing tonight, and we know it's the best. When requested, a minister will be invited to the meeting of the Committee and will also know that he will encourage his people in the Ministry to meet well with information at the first meeting after the weekend.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u208	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son for a fine talk The Senator raised many interesting questions regarding this matter. I think the basic idea behind this case is good, here is an effort to solve problems that we have seen in the community for a very long time and have to resolve. There has been a agreement with the labour market to solve it to some extent in this way. In fact, a little over a year ago, in February of last year, something like this, when the Ministry's Department's housing group and the Housing and Engineing Agency then known as the Substitute Fund, and the labor movement gave an opinion that was very good, and this was one of the points mentioned. The senator's argument was that the bill might make it possible for people to choose a farm. Then the senator will likely agree that new apartments are based mainly on the edge or near the center, and this may lead to relocating if they intend to enter this system. I may have wanted to ask if the senator could see any good solution to this or to any other crash but the bill shows. I agree with the senator that this is a solution that we need to try to control.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u209	Thank you. paritaprevir For the answer, Þór Gunnarsson's son! That's exactly what I'm talking about. On the one hand, new buildings will rise where there is room for them, which is one, and if they are to be cheap, they will rise where there is an inexpensive land. Neither of these options is necessarily negative, especially when it comes to first buyers, young people, and all of them. But the big thing is that I threw down and criticized, that a certain choice has been taken by people, and it especially dislikes the older group. I don't have the answer right now, but the first step is to call for information. It was shown in the reply of the highest. A minister earlier today that much of the reason for this particular arrangement is to prevent the practical benefits there offer the power to expand in all the markets and to raise prices everywhere. I'm not necessarily convinced that it will. I think it's too few apartments to do that. But it should be simple for us on the committee to call for evidence on this subject and to evaluate it. Then maybe we're starting to look at this differently. It would also be possible to imagine that people who can apply for the resources, this cheap loan, so to speak, for a certain apartment, would go through some food. They are more concerned about how the apartment spends over time, and the government is not getting back the investment. There could be some such a way that might be slower than to think that many would choose to go that way. There's nothing to be done about it, we're not dealing with an enormous number here, but I think this is one of the questions that's interesting to wonder about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u210	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son answered. Of course, I do not expect to do so. A senator or others in the hall have all the answers. But the conversation is important, as the senator entered it and led himself to a decision. I think we can totally agree on that. The Senator mentioned the market expansion, whether there was any danger. Now you don't know, here's what's expected, if I remember correctly, about 400 apartments a year. Perhaps it is not so much that it has an effect. I'm not quite aware of that. If they were all built in the same community, they might have a expanding effect. But we expect this to spread something. There was something else. A senator came into his speech, I don't know if a man should call it the power of the Housing Agency or its influence. There have been more members of Congress today who have established the Agency's decision - making authority, in order to establish interest if income limits change. It's a speculation. But is it in itself so different from the way a person borrows with changing interest? People borrow with changing interest, and they know that if circumstances change, not their own circumstances, but the market situation, growth will change. Does this have to be so serious if people really have it all in front of them, and they explain when they walk into this system and deal with it? Is this a big problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u211	Madam President. No, it's not a check for trouble on its own. I agree, if it is. That's what a senator meant. I am, however, one of those who always get nervous when regulations are too extensive and law too simple. But I agree, I read it. The senator so that as long as the rules are clear and clear, people know what they're doing, this is not necessarily the problem. Yet, we can take the case. It says in 2 gr. to share loans, by permission of presidents: According to this article, credit is limited to the financial resources of the loan class at any given time. - It's in itself. If the financial authority has been completed, the Homing Agency is not allowed to accept a loan application despite the applicant's meeting the requirements for it. This is not a source we're talking about. It's not allowed by the agency. But the question comes to mind: How fast can it empty this warrant? Does the Agency have an example of this? Is it reasonable to have a limit, so that there are somewhat equal and some strong candidates haven't emptied the fund quite early? It is these things that require an enormous amount of transparency and clear rules so that people know what they're walking about. I don't think it's the big problem, and I agree with it as a matter of course. A senator says with interest and so forth. A person's interest is determined. It's just that way. It is arranged that if these things are to be desirable resources, these growths need to be in proportion to the rate of growth in the public market, if one is going to play it differently. So this may not be a big issue, but it's interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u212	A respectable president. This is a very interesting bill in many ways. I see that the goal is very good, but I'm trying to patch up the numbers and it's short notice because it's not an old bill at the council. It is a fixed peak for individuals, a income of 630,000. Then the subject will be in a median if the subject is individual, with 880,000 for married couples or those who have been married for the last 12 months. Added to 130,000 for each child and young person under 20 years of age. These are the balance criteria referred to for share loans up to 20%. You can go to 30% share loans for people with even lower income, or up to 418,000 dollars. a month for an individual and a 585,000 k. for married or married people. True, it is said here that it is for married couples, not for married couples, as was said for those who have less income. This may need to be adjusted in the case of the committee. That's a good thing to do. But these are the income criteria set as a requirement for getting share loans. When you start from that place and then jump to other limitations set up, you have to show that the person is unable to finance an apartment house unless he is borrowing, it really means that the person does not resist payment or does not carry the 20, 25, 30%, or the deposit that borrows all equals. So it either has to be that the person does not pass pay, but it works when he has a share loan, or that he simply does not have the required amount of stock and is under these limits. In addition, though, the average payment of a mortgage may be no more than 40%. After you have taken provisions of a lower salary, and even if that was a median wage, there is not much left. It limits the cost of an apartment, especially when the loan period is still added to the cost of just 25 years, which is still increasing the monthly rates for that loan. On top of all of this, on top of this low pay, these small provisions that are available to people in this pay range must, at least, be put forward 1◯2 million, actually 2 million, on the basis of the criteria of the report, for prices, i.e. to contribute at least 5% of the price. This is only true of the tax-employment provision of the special property savings. This method has been criticized because it is more useful to those who are rich than to earn money. But all of this suggests that the conditions set for the income market, for the provision of the income, on the matter of being able to finance money only with share loans, not without them, and that this must be a home that must be adopted by a Housekeeping and human activification agency, that it is a new housing, that the loans are no longer than 25 years old - there are loans that are prior to the pledge so that it will still limit the extra payment, the total payment. It is not limited to the share loan that raises payments per month, which will be up to 40% of the provisions it should not exceed. Admittedly, it is proper to have room for other costs. But when I count these limits to my income, I end up with very few people, except perhaps when I add children. This adds up to $ 130,000. for every child allowed for income. But it plays a little contrary to the fact that there is a high cost of having children and making money that does not necessarily back them up, and arrangements are impaired because they have children and our support systems are supported by child reforms, etc. Do not necessarily return these provisions. Anyone who has had a kid should know that there is definitely more money behind it than the sponsoric systems make up for the majority of people, much less for those on this threshold of income. The questions I propose for the council are, How many are behind the investigation that the Ministry has made? The Ministry has had quite a long time to go through the history of income and see the income range in people's income range, etc. and who are there, how many landlords there are, what income gaps these are, etc., which brings the number 410 annually, which is also the number to which this is also limited. I'm interested in the fact that Homeland and Human Resources Agency will have to say no when they have the financial resources that come from the budget because we have a similar budget in another area of film - granting. All you can do is come up and shoot a movie, and it's paid back. It's an endless run of funds. Yes, they're paying in, i.e. The film companies come and pay for production and get their money back. However, there is a financial warrant for the reimbursement of the film grants that can be exceeded as if it were nothing. It was remarkable and something that needs to be viewed in the same way. I find it strange, therefore, that you have to say specifically that you can't go beyond your budget when it's your rule that you can't go beyond your budget, but it's always done. And we've been saying, "Oh, we just spent a little too much money." We just didn't notice it until December. I think it's a little interesting, because the goal of this is to solve some particular problem with financing on buying our own housing, and I guess we'd like to solve all that problem. If you look at the basics in a similar way to the movie grant, where the movie strength is reimbursed, we will not lose that in particular. And if we look at it, the loans due to concrete have never been a long-term bad investment in Iceland, so it's not like the public losses in investments like this, although it can certainly have some side effect on demand and forwards if, all of a sudden, a lot more and buy, it should have an increasing impact on apartment prices, unless there are enough stores that oppose the demand, because otherwise these people were rentable. It's a fixed cycle, a race to see if enough apartments are available, if it's next to meeting all our contracts. It's a bit of a balance art that seems to be involved that I'm not. I see the promise about her. I'll put it that way. However, given the conditions involved, I don't see all the numbers that this is supposed to involve. So I would like to hear the answers in the Committee's office where the business is in the business of the people who are subject to it, which members of the community are involved, and so on. It would be very convenient to have long - term predictions that will be performed according to the minister's annual report, the long - term report not to appear until the end of the year, where you can see the development of demographics in the future. There are likely people on poverty lines and even below them, and you think, " Is this the problem for those on the poverty line? ' Will they ever reach those conditions? Even about 5% of the price. If not, why not? We do not want to solve the problem of that group, i.e. poverty, so it can come in? And how do other government resources make us think that even the share loans are not necessary because we don't have people in these perimeters about income? From that point of view, you look at the biographer agreements as an attempt to step in to get people out of poverty and into the possession system because we have this kind of pension fund system that if people don't owe a roof over their heads when they go to pension, they're just in trouble because having roofs over their heads is part of the values we're making about pension money. They should not be paid for housing. So I look forward to seeing these calculations and scenarios, what the tires and sizes are underneath, and especially the people that hit the edge. Is that going to get all the way down? If not, what alternative measures are there for the people on the edge, especially the ones low in income? And how should evolution follow to make such support out - of - date or unnecessary? Finally, in response to a talk for the prehistoric debate, this bill has been referred to for a long time in the plots. The minister answered that this is because the Ministry needed a variety of consultations, etc. There are two accounts of how this was handled and how the bill was fixed in the Ministry of Economic Affairs because it is natural to have an assessment of the impact of the bill on the income of the state funds and the like over there, talking about 4 billion a year that the State would have to invest in concrete for a particular group of income. I want to know how much of the bill was changed to the Ministry of finance and how long it was working there. I wondered how much this is a prime minister of finance, rather than a social minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u213	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator before a good talk, and I promised him that I would answer him, since he did not answer me in my background. First of all, I think the senator of one class suggests that there is no demand for the apartment, and there has been a little bit of the discussion here, because the conditions are so strict. The other strip suggests that there are too few apartments, so the living quarters should not be conditioned. All right. Let it be between parts. So that there are a considerable number of analyses around this point, both the Ministry and the Housing Institutes, and the same were obtained from outside companies. The sum of this job was well handled by the Summa, and it is assumed that the conditions set will cover seven income levels. Each income tenant has about 24,000 people. However, it can be assumed that the lowest three income tenants are in other resources because they simply do not have provisions to buy their own housing. They can be in community housing, even something in public apartments, etc. It can be assumed that these may be three income entirely, 24,000 people each, so it is three times that number is prepared and can be said to be in all these analyses, and probably for the committee to put themselves into it. Then, with the changes in the bill, I don't think I'll be able to answer that in this answer, but I will certainly do so in a later answer to the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u214	A respectable president. I can't wait to hear it. I'd like to add a little something here. What I described about the limitations of the conditions, and how many people actually squeeze in between them, is about the conditions and the need, since we have 4,000,55,000 individuals, or so in each year, and 410 apartments are about 410. 10% of the demand for housing per year if this is for individuals and down to approximately 10 percent of the demand for housing per year. 5% for couples. The range of these types of apartment space between 5 and 10% is to be covered. You will examine each year and see how the income distribution is and how these conditions actually contain those who are looking for housing. Of course, there are many people who have not had the opportunity to do so. A lot of tenants today may not have had the opportunity to save for their own housing. Thus, the need for such a place is made up. 410 apartments do not work on it, considering that number, or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u215	A respectable president. So that's the second part that went to the number of apartments. After conversation with the labour market partners and with the industry that included the workforce a part of the presentation and the development of the case has come to the conclusion that men - based on the low-cost construction market in developing good, practical, practical apartments - we now see reports of some projects that are being built at a more successful, efficient apartment that are less expensive, recently presented a major project in the capital area. that - there could be no start with more than 400 containers at this time. If it changes, it can be taken into consideration. A future legislature can do that, but I think it's difficult and would create false hopes, too, to bring up the number of apartments that the job itself thinks it can't build. Then the senator asked how long the bill had been in a conversation. Of course, at the time of the biographer contract, this bill was not started to be maintained. However, it is quite clear that the bill and the picture on it were presented at the end of the last year, including the year. The Ministry of finance. There were some comments to that at the time. Further analyses continued, etc. I would've liked to be able to bring the bill earlier. However, let us understand, too, that when we discuss radical solutions to the government's policy-making markets under the biography agreements, there are, of course, differences in viewpoints on how to exports and currents are made. I'm a spokesman for taking decisive action to ensure the positions of the most commercial groups in society. This bill certainly does. But can we go further? Can we do more? Yes, we can always do that at any given time. This, however, is a step. We're on our way. [[The president calls.]] We're supporting the most commercial groups so that they can buy property, and I'm super proud of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u216	A respectable president. There is just so much in the development of the executive authority to the lack of the Generals. I don't see what kind of vision it is. Minister of Social Affairs is here on the counter, or a speech is presented in the bill. I don't see in the report that she's going to be real. The bill is not explained in that it is beneficial to the public reader to see if his goal is reached. This is a general complaint that I have on the European Commission information because it always answers from its point of view, not from the opinion that the Parliament needs when it supervises the implementation of funding, e.g. or by whether government policies are actually fulfilled in such primary events. I hope there's something that's been said here about the biographer contract and the like. At the same time, of course, I'll have to have confirmation of it. I can't believe it in blindness. It can't work that way. Between the legislator and the executive authority, there should be a separation that we know, such as being very limited and being able to be much more. During the extremely short period of time that the General Council is supposed to handle an important case that requires great precision and really space, especially for those who may be in doubt of receiving such assistance over some technical problem, I think there is something that the Ministry needs to explain in the Committee office in an enormously short period of time. [[The president calls.]] It's gonna be a challenge that I look forward to. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u217	Madam President. I believe it is my right and duty to speak to the first. This big bill of share loans. I think that, in fact, on every scale, it's a big case. That's a lot of money. We are talking about 40 billion or so over ten years, but it is also largely high that it can have a significant impact on the apartment market and how it develops in the near future. That's exactly why I want to say goodbye, mainly to sharpen my wits. a welfare committee to take a good look at what you're doing here. It shall be quite acknowledged and said that I have a tiny discomfort in my stomach with this bill when it comes to the speed I seem to be at it, because it's a big deal. It's not because I disagree with the ideologies behind which, in some cases, we may be wise to agree that the State will lend a share loan in some way that is suggested. First of all, there's something I think is so important that people have in mind when they take their stand on this matter and on what to do. a welfare committee, especially during treatment. I doubt that it will take time to do the work that I believe is necessary to make good odors and the goal of the bill that is good. I'm gonna go over a few things. This is not exhaustive. I will not last a period of time here and will definitely have to blend in with the discussion once the case has been treated on a committee. But I'll name a few things and reason them in different ways and in different ways. First of all, I strongly warn that my share loans are still 25 years old. I think it's more reasonable to have them for five years, and to testify, for example. to the experience in the United Kingdom, but that the borrower, owner of the apartment, has a chance to extend five years and possibly another five years. This is how the subject needs to be every five years for at least to evaluate whether it is wise to pay off the loan, if the evolution is the case, that he considers his interests to be more beneficial, not his property, but that of the State, as it is built into this matter. Second, it's a real possibility that we're going to sneak in a ban - I think of this as a first step - a loan that's longer than 25. It's the opening point in this bill that it should usually be 25 years. True, it is a very peculiar law code to use a ◯ usually because I don't know what that means, usually 25 years, whether these 400 are divided and the average time is 25 years, and some have a 100 - year loan. Of course, it's outbacks from memory, but 25 years of credit is what we have to accept. And what does that do, Madam President? It works directly against the goal of the bill, which is trying to help and lighten up the money - bearing population so that they can get their first apartment in their life or their first apartment after not having lived in an apartment for five years. I'm gonna take an example. An individual with 400,000 K. in a month's pay, it takes 25 million. K. An apartment loan to 40 years. The monthly payment rate is less than 85,000. I want you to be assured of a loan and 105,000 bucks. if you have an unscrupulous loan. As a percentage of paid remuneration, because that is, of course, what matters, i.e. taking into account that the person pays four percent of his own fees, the load of payment is 29% of the provisional items. 29% per month. The pay load, however, increases by 30,000 dollars. every month, from 85,000 bucks. ... intoa hundred and twenty-five thousand. if the person is forced to take 25 years. 30,000 k. By forbidding him to take a 40 - year loan and force him to borrow 25 years in order to obtain a share loan. As a percentage of paid pay, the pay rate increases to 39%, less than 40%, from 29%. In view of this, it is important to realize that people with less income are being made mechanism in this bill, which directly counteracts the stated purpose of the object of losing money, make it easier for them to invest in their own housing. There are, of course, many ways to look at this. It can also be said that the person can afford to borrow less or that he needs to contribute more money. This is a factor that sits in my heart because there is a fence that prevents people with low incomes and intermediate income from making their dream come true. That's at least and to exclude it from this share loan. Third, Madam President, it is questionable, in the best of order, to tie the shares loans to purchase new apartments based on some contract made by Housing and Mobilization Agency and construction contractors. That really means "what." Councilmen, reaching out for all the share loans, will reach those living in the capital area. I'm told I'm the highest. Ministers - and it's all right to listen once, yes, then you'll learn - I'm telling you that there are a lot of places out in the country where there will be no new apartments to discuss those who want to get share loans. [[It's just bullshit.]] [[Foreground: I'm listening.]] Fourth, to continue, it is wrong for me to have the candidate's duty, the borrower, to protect his tax-free special savings to reduce apartment loans. I agree, however, that all financial sense is in protecting your special savings from taxes to pay off apartment loans. But this is property, it's property. I don't think it's reasonable that the state intends to have an individual's duty to protect its special savings in a certain way, as is done in this bill. I am absolutely convinced that it doesn't have to be, because all reason to say to the person, "You should and you should protect your special savings tax-free to pay off your apartment loan as fast as possible. " It's just a financial reason. But it hurts my feelings about the rights of property that the state should say, "You shall defend certain portions of your income, your property, in this manner." Otherwise, you won't get what's available. Number five: the rule of 90. I don't see that in the bill, equal order is committed, in fact, to the contrary. It kind of tells itself that for limited funds, as the bill assumes, 4 billion a year, 40 billion in ten years, 400 people, it is quite obvious that there may be a lot more people who want to get share loans, all the conditions of the law to them, but will receive them. No one knows how a decision will be made about who gets a yes, and who gets a no, except that you can lead just like the first one, first to come. The sixth point is to me a big thing. There's no such thing as how DMV and Human Resources operates on negotiations to build more suitable housing loans. The choice of contractors is unclear. The same is true of what contractors need to meet. There are no rural requirements when it comes to economic conditions, such as internal fees, etc. Finally, while I see that my time is running out, Madam President, it is quite obvious that a legal right given to a minister is too extensive and too vague. [[The president calls.]] The bill and the Regulation need to be written in ways that are not done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u218	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u219	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. This talk is a big deal for a senator because I've been sitting here observing the discussion, and I'm having a little difficulty understanding what's going on. I'd like to start by thinking about my concern that this case, which I think is more important to economic and business committees than any social committee at any time, ratio to the welfare committee. Of course, it is late, and we know that story. Hv. A senator discussed a few things that he was concerned about that reflect my concern. I want him to explain to me a little bit more what he meant with properties in particular, just so I get it. Now I'm going to discuss this case on Monday and I'd like to be able to understand it up and down to the end. He came in on other things that I find very interesting. It is about the demands of contractors. He listed very good things, e.g. It's weight prices and practicality and all of this. Everything's open. As the situation is today, we need to strengthen ourselves in Iceland, many traders need work and that sort of thing, and I want to know if it would be smart to put it into an Icelandic product to strike a few flies in one blow. I'm gonna do it in my previous answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u220	Madam President. Although I, as a member of the Economic and Business Committee, would like to have as much of a case with me, I do not insist on making this case there. [[Up front.]] I think it belongs to a welfare committee, and I think many people are happy about it. [[Flmrh.That was the only thing you ever said.]] Possession in my mind is just the money tied in your house, and, of course, it is true in the bill's report that property is faster if the loan time is shorter. That's what it says. But if you're going to follow that argument, property is much faster by ten years than 25 years old. That's right. But it is also quite clear that people who start with a 40 - year loan with all the future will, of course, make decisions in the future that can change them, including those who do so. cut down the loan time, etc., paying on the head chair lends as is common, including with special savings, also as income increases, etc. But I'm going to warn you only if I've understood what's happened. A senator was right, if she was talking about production at a local home and aims for Icelandic production. I'm not quite sure that's the wisest thing to do, absolutely not for those who buy because I think we should just increase the supply of it. I remind you that when the men decided here well a few decades ago to allow imports into foreign candy, they had a big word that the Icelandic candy production would die. What happened? She's never been more thriving.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u221	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much. The bill seems to be obliged to use the special property savings to pay off this loan. Today, we can choose if we can use the specials we have to pay off the head seat, but there it is mandatory, as I understand it. So that all of this works now means "wow." A senator saying that this is too much to tie and do? I'd like to ask him to answer if possible. Then there's the second part. Hv. A senator said it was too long a loan. It would be almost five years, and people would apply for it again every five years, if I heard correctly, so that people would be evaluated over and over again. At the same time, though, I heard why. A senator says it's too short a loan. It would simply be forbidden to have it like an Iceland loan until it was 40 years old. That's where I feel like I'm covering a contradiction. But I'd like to say something special with a what. Senator on the matter of regulations. Today, it seems simply to be in fashion to give the rulers of this government all the extraordinary power to put everything in regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u222	Madam President. I'm now going to argue that the rulers of this government were not given more regulations than the rulers of other governments, but this is a trend that has taken place, unfortunately. It is at the General Assembly of the Icelanders to accuse, not the Ministers, to say so. On the one hand, the biggest part of the apartment funding is in the form of an apartment loan, not the share loan, but the mortgage. In other words, men who enjoy the share loan should be forbidden to take longer loans than 25 years old. I'm just saying it'll increase the payload. I took an example of a man with 400,000 bucks. in pay, pay loads of paid pay will increase from 29% to 39%. This makes it clear that it works against the goal of the bill. But what I'm saying about the share loan is that they should come over once every five years. It is now, for example. Review criteria if the subject has been subject for three consecutive years with income beyond any amount, etc. A person, not the Agency, needs to consider whether he or she will serve his best interests on the share loans and thus decide to share the wealth expansion that will remain with the State or perhaps take over until 25 years. He is faced with that decision every five years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u223	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for a very interesting and good speech. There was a senator who spoke with reason and knowledge, and he would wish it were mentioned in his case, so I'm telling you the truth. But I also find it interesting that here's a senator putting this case to rest just one, two and three, a case of four billion a year, and 40 billion in the next ten years of our last year when government funds are up to 300 billion. I want to thank you. Again and again, for a good and reasonable speech. I agree with him in many things he mentioned. He mentioned the loan time, the location of the housing, the transparency of distribution, etc. All of these are factors that I deeply agree with him. I hope more members of the Independence Party agree. A senator and suggest that the matter be handled carefully and carefully. It is clear that there is a full need for it. What I wanted to ask you. A senator in particular comes to his opinion and opinion is a loan without interest. He knows that there is no such thing as interest - free loan. In this case, it is taxpayers who are paying interest instead of borrowing. It's a political decision. I wanted it from what? A senator whether he agrees with the methodology, whether an independent person agrees with the methodology in this matter, that the taxpayers cut down loans to a certain community group.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u224	Madam President. We've been subsidizing loans here as long as I can remember in the form of growth reforms and in some way this will lead to significant improvements in interest of growth. I'm all for the government to help people have real freedom of choice in housing. Some do not want to get stuck and rather rent, and we are to make sure that there is a real, secure tenet. But we should also give the others, who are many more, a choice. I'll just say one thing. A few years ago, I took in what was official, i.e. In 15 years, in the form of growth reform, the state put in a housing suit, in the form of setting about 60 billion in order to prevent the bankruptcy of an apartment loan and then in the construction of tens of tens of tens of thousands of dollars. That was 247 billion bucks. That went on in 15 years. To put this in perspective, the State could have handed over 40,000 families to give 20% of their money in 30 million. K. An apartment. I ask: When we look at this, that in a 15 - year period, nearly 250 billion went into official support, it would have been better not to go to the highest level. A social minister proposes in the form of share loans unless it had been in the form of his own money that the person would have received? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That would have been real help.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u225	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I don't know why. A senator knows a so - called hat loan offered at his time by an apartment loan fund. It was an additional loan when the camp loan fund actually took the savings into the market competition. Those loans weren't too good. So you can ask about the experience, but the highest. One minister says that experience with these loans is good in Scotland and Britain. It would be nice to have it from what? A senator, because he is president of the Economic and Business Committee, whether it is really comparable to the situation, whether it is normal to present it in the highest order. The minister did so on his case. Besides, I want to get to it as fast as possible. The senator mentioned in his speech that the minister is being made a major authority in the Regulation. From the senator's words, it is clear that he is opposed. Then I'll just ask. A member of the council, does he believe that this issue will go through as it is established? Is there a agreement within the government to settle the matter and accept it and drive through in a few days? Not to mention the high cost of our economic situation, but there should be no more time for reviewing it and all the relevant issues. A senator mentioned specifically and made very clear. Counts 'em out. A senator that this matter will be resolved in the days ahead?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u226	Madam President. I wish I could answer that question. A senator whether I think this or the other bill will be done before the end of the council. I just have no idea. I'm not sure there are a lot of people in this room tonight who are close to giving the answer. The bill may be successful, but it would be in record speed. I've described my doubts. V.E.G. A minister has known of that doubts from the beginning, before the bill was submitted, so to speak. I'm sure I'm not the only man who has doubts. But I'm not saying that ideologies behind this matter are bad. Not at all. There is evidence to support share loans. But it must be done wisely. Here are built - in rules that will prevent and act directly against stated targets. Besides, there's so much that's unclear. I don't understand how men are going to secure an order here. I'm not going to participate in accepting a bill because I can't be sure that everyone is equal to the laws set and that everyone should be equal to the requirements that the law requires in terms of payment that we are giving together. Although people meet the requirements set out in the law, there is no guarantee that they will receive the payment, and they do not even know why they will not receive it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u227	A respectable president. I'm gonna get involved in this conversation for a minute. We'll discuss this bill to correct the change in housing laws, share loans. I'm glad there's a bill on these matters. The bill has been requested to support young people and low incomes who want to buy their first apartment, and the thinking behind the bill is a good price. It's part of the biographer contracts, and we know that there's a special policy in this country. It also has to be easy for the needy to have a home, and I think it is being tried as reasonably developed. Granted, there are some defects or questions that arise as to whether things could not be selected differently and about which there will be a welfare committee. My concern, and indeed for the matter, is especially of the structure and potential of people with little income in the country. I think it's possible to meet the view that the earnable people who want their first apartments have a chance to get share loans and that there are ways to get them. But the point is that sharing loans are confined to new buildings, new apartments. The reality is the one in many territories, whether we call the fractured areas inhabited or the cold areas that do not exist in the market, you do not see the need to build a new home, even if you already have this bill. Hence, the number of people, the number of them, and the price of resuscitation, as well as the like. □ What are some of the benefits of living in a land where there is a lot of money? I think it's a discrimination thing. After seeing the tremendous relief of the capital area and other urban areas in the country over the years, I feel that this can further contribute to the fact that people under these definitions have the right to such share loans, see their beds up and move to where new and good housing are available. It can hardly be the point of leaving them behind or further pushing them to move and go where they can fit into such new buildings. Of course, I understand in the context of the section that specific agreements are being made based on the opinion of the labour market parties. Of course, this is a production bill and it is good for a person to look to see that if it wasn't linked to new buildings, there would be a risk of an increase in apartment prices. But this also results in the fact that most people who deserve it cannot take advantage of the resources in small areas. I think it should be tried to meet their views in a very positive way at the Committee's work, whether it would be done by higher share loans into these areas, which are defined, both in the case of general rented and their structure, or in the presence of a built-up map of the Agency over those areas. This would be related to the obligation to borrow for new apartments, which have been approved by the Housing Agency as an economic facility, not valid for areas that are defined by standards that have been implemented by the Office as fragile areas, and which fall based on ESAs. I think it would be very easy to arrange it if it were available. You might also look for ways to increase share loans in those areas so that building materials in such areas would be yellowing, although the number of them would always be associated with the possibility and growth of the area. That's what it says. It's a good thing to do. It is a good and long time to be with people with low incomes and who are going to their first apartment purchases, for the reality is that young people today do not necessarily have to have the lowest income, yet they rely on getting support to pay payment on housing from their parents or close relatives. And it's not natural, of course, that in our rich society there is a need to do such a blunder. Somebody might say that. that there is a much lower cost in the country than in the larger areas, such as the area. the capital area, Akureyri or Aranesp. People will be much less inclined to deposit on less expensive housing. But then we find that banking institutions have not been very interested in borrowing in those areas above their heads. There's the knife in the cow as well. Although the cost of living is lower, the price of retail is, of course, it is as if it is being drawn entirely, I don't know what to say, from the innermost part of my heart to look at the possibility of borrowing into those areas. It seems sad that the banks of every country - that is, of course, Iceland's bank and the Lands Bank today that we have today, our state and Aion banks and other credit institutions do not seem to have faith in the fields or trust that the people may have a chance to pay their loans. It is all too common that financial institutions do not build up in the less populated areas of the country, although there may be a number of factors that contribute to the development of these settlements, belief in them, and the potential for more income and production in those areas. I trust it to be a health committee and the highest. In this context, a minister who listens to my speech will consider whether they can be met in some way. I believe that by this they would be short in equal terms and in the possibilities of people under these circumstances anywhere in the country. I trust we won't leave the case in the air. This is part of the biographer contract, and it's important that we finish it at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u228	Madam President. Thank you. When a senator is concerned about the position of people with a low income across the country, he agrees with her. I think it's very important that this discussion be taken into consideration. The welfare committee. Although retail prices in the country are lower than those in the capital area, the cost of building is high. It is expensive to build on the land, and the price fell on the premises immediately, as the price for retailing is lower. I'm glad that I did. A senator is taking this case for the committee. I want to ask you why. In the capital area, a senator sees that she too cannot see the problem that her share loans are confined to new buildings. The tenants and low - income owners may rent in spores, the children walk there in school, and these neighborhoods are even in need of renewal. If you consider these matters, you must also find that binding the loans to new buildings would be a drawback. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament whether it feels that these factors can be raised so that people with low incomes are not confined to the suburbs or to specific places that are being built on the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u229	Madam President. Of course, there are many perspectives based on reasonableness and righteousness and population development, that certain neighborhoods do not grow old there, nor do young people, as well as all kinds of people, earners, harvesters, and just all the fleas in certain areas, do not necessarily move to the suburbs, although there is good living everywhere if there is good equipment. But such dry water can be thought about whether a certain percentage of the share loans could be attached to new buildings, and something else could be done in an older home. You might imagine there was a division, but in the bill it's only a new building. Of course, the activities of the work community keep this up - to - date with the new building, and it is part of the labour market contracts to link it up like this. The number of jobs is, of course, increasing in the construction process as well. But I could have thought that some share loans could also be defined for the purchase of older housing in urban areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u230	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. I hope so. The welfare committee reviews the matter from this point of view, not only from the perspective of contractors and employment circumstances, but also from the needs of family members who need share loans. I hope the committee will find some good solution, both to the country's habitat and to the different needs of people when it comes to housing and all the circumstances. I want to ask you why. A senator will see if he believes that it is possible to win this matter on the schedule that we have set for ourselves in the council. There are only six meetings and one day called, if I've been right. I'm asking if she's not worried that her time is too short to work this matter in the few days that remain.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u231	A respectable president. Time is a relative term, so you can now be philosophical at night. Of course, it depends on how the spirit soars over the waters and how much effort we put forth to fulfill this section of the Life Treaty, yet we try to put the matter in the best shape we can at this brief time. Of course, I'd love to have us finish it, and I think that's what we're going to do. But then, from the standpoint of whether we belong to a so - called government or to a greater part, we need to do our part. I think it could happen, but let's see what's going to happen. At the end, I'd like to say, because we talked about building houses in the country and in the capital area and the possibility of buying houses in the older apartments with credits, I forgot to mention generation change in rural areas. More often than not, people there do not have high income, and young people who are taking over an old apartment home on earth may be interested in buying it from those who live there, whether they are related or not. I feel that these areas also need to be looked at in the countryside, where young people with low incomes want to buy housing from those who are there, and they don't plan for a new building because they can't even afford it at first. I think all of this needs to be examined, and I think that's a good way to do it, and it doesn't necessarily take a long time if you want to.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u232	Madam President. I'm going to add a few words to promote my views on the bill and the individual issues related, but especially to impress the minister of further conquests when it comes to the housing of all of us. It is good to bear in mind what has happened to this bill's production has to do with the biography agreements. I agree with those who have wished that the job had gone faster and that the situation had come here until I face the situation as it is and did not worry too much about what could have been. Now, it is our responsibility to cope with this responsibility and firmness. In recent months, we have shown that the Council can work hard and fast, and I sincerely hope that we too are able to do so today. President. The bill is made up of some of the biographies, and before that, from the government covenant or the Treaty, it refers to it. There's been this discussion about one point at the least I would've wanted to come in on, i.e. that support is limited to buying new housing Of course, there is a problem in this regard. Ministers are laying lines on the biographies agreements in which the bill is intended to help the people of the apartment purchases so that those who meet certain conditions may be paid to cover their own money at the market, but also to increase the incentive for a builder to build a suitable living house that suits these groups. It was shown in the vast and extensive work being done in the leading of the biographer contracts on housing that, despite the extensive building of apartments, there was evidence of these being disposed of by less income and property figures. I'm not necessarily convinced, President, that one and the same bill was the right way to achieve these two goals, i.e. On the one hand, to increase motivation for a builder and, on the other, to help the earners into the housing market. Although I'm positive, e.g. that this is what may be more suitable for this group. But there's a problem with it, like cot. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir came in here in answer to me earlier. There are also certain faults in this, as do we who are familiar with housing markets, that new housing is generally more expensive than the older one, etc. I would have thought to some extent it would be wise for me to have a clean social support bill because I look at it so that we're coming up here to a social housing system. It was evil that the good social housing system that we built up with the cohesion of the common people for decades was removed. We're here to point in that direction again. Therefore, I have no doubt that this matter is at stake. A welfare committee, I view it as part of a social housing system. I think it's important that the critical cables have been heard about income connection in the bill. Without saying any numbers in this context, I think it's important that income connections be on the bill because I think it's social housing support. So it is fine and good that the matter is taken up, and its approval will improve the situation of many. It's as simple as that. On the other hand, President, I'd like to make the most of it. Similarly, a minister is impressed with other matters related to the housing market, thus viewing the market as a whole and, in fact, the lives of all of us. The government covenant refers not only to helping people to find accommodations but also to tenants. It's a social group that's been lying too long in a garden, just since a collapse. Government operations have far more focused on people whose homes are their own or about helping people to have their own housing. Now it may be right to state, Mr. President, in this period of transparency and interest registration that I myself am tenant and thus know well the market, its uncertainty, and its insecurity. I can't protect myself from thinking that these actions, fine things they are, are also part of what we may have too little to discuss as a community or we're here at the Council, I don't remember much discussion about it, i.e. promoting special policy. We seem to believe that everyone wants to have his own place. And yes, we have research that shows that many tenants want a place to live. No matter how much it is that it wants because the lack of security in the lease market is so different. It was earlier this evening that we were helping people to have a choice. We're supposed to do the same for tenants. I know it's at the U.S. Senate. Minister is the bill on tenants' rights. I'd like to get the top of it. A minister for good works there, for the fact is that the group of people with burdensome housing costs is much larger among tenants than those owned by houses. This bill may help one of them to stop being tenants and become owners, and this may reduce housing costs, etc., but the situation is that 2018 is less than 20% tenants with what is called a burdensome housing cost or more than 40% of the provisions and less than 8% of the owners. We have also made our system so that access to the money families often need to finance the other, and this, by borrowing, is becoming increasingly limited. At the same time, we have taken away the responsible system, which in many respects is fine but that makes tenants not in the position of picking up in the same way that depositors are in financial resources. In this way, we push more and more into our possession. It may be all well, but let's do it with our eyes open. Let us also do so with open eyes to see that a proportion of people become in a rented market, whether less or longer, and that their status needs to be improved. I'm the highest. A minister to impress on these matters because I sense that he is looking at the bigger picture. This bill is a bite in that puzzle as the highest. The government is convening on the housing market and measures needed to be taken. It's a good one. This suggests that social housing systems, as I said, and, together with other bills and other good measures already announced, will greatly improve the status of a housing market in general, both in this matter and in the correctness of the tenants as I discussed. I got it. I got it. The welfare committee to honor the processing of this bill and all of us and to urge all of us to resolve these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u233	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Ottar's son Proppér, for a fine speech. I must admit that I missed the first part of my talk. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u234	It's all on the Internet.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u235	Yeah, I know, and I'll watch the talk there many times, it's totally safe. But I thought that the chapters of a certain question were in my speech. A senator's concern that this was the most intelligent way of handling these matters. We have a lot of time. End of treatment is scheduled at the end of the second week. This is a vital issue involving 4 billion each year for ten years, a total of 40 billion. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér: What do you think? The most important person to move to a better direction, considering the bill as it is now?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u236	President. Hv. A senator who has a fine evening is in line to watch recordings of my speech all after a meeting. There he will see what I will say on a brief subject. I drew my doubts on the very basis of the bill, i.e. The two - fold goal of helping earners to have their own housing and, on the other hand, to be an incentive for a builder to build a suitable home. I see, however, a certain advantage; it results in more of the facilities that research has shown to be missing precisely. Besides, I'm the kind of person who doesn't have to be right all the time. In this case, I don't think it would be wise to keep these two goals integrated, but the labor movement in the country has learned that this, along with the highest. Governments and commercial organizations. The labour market partners have agreed that this is the way. Then I will take off the imaginary hat and bow my head and say, OK. This is the way you want to go. I might have gone a different way, but I'm listening when the workforce's entire organization speaks and represents the people who built up the good social housing we lived in and allowed them to be proud for decades before an ugly bump to be torn to the ground. I'll listen and say, "Okay, this is the way we're going to go. Then we try to do our best.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u237	Madam President. Thank you. A senator up Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér is eager to answer. I can be the head of the environment and transport committee, where there's a problem. A senator sits, testifying that he does not insist on being right every day. It was so-called a basketball player's support but not about what I would like to ask. A senator about. I was happy with the scene the senator mentioned in his reply, which turned out that the bill supported the giving of money - rich people the opportunity to have their own home. I recall that in the early stages, there was a fellow soldier. The senator spoke in a way that the special policy was dissipation of people's ownership rights or possible renting an apartment home. I was pleased with that point. A senator mentioned that the bill made it easier for rich people to get their own roof over their heads. I'd like to ask if it's a good idea. The senator said that we should work to make it easier for larger groups to cover their heads in the sense of obtaining a place of their own, since on that journey I am very interested in taking it seriously. Senator. I hope he's sorry about the joke in the first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u238	President. Hv. A senator knows very well that I don't have to make any demands within the environment and transport committee to be right with me, but it just comes out of nowhere without anyone demanding it. With all the fun out of it, I think I'll go for it. A senator will be slightly disappointed later when he looks at my entire talk. I certainly support the goal of people they wish to have their own home, otherwise it would be now, but I also discussed special policy and that we had decided to direct all the people there and that there would be something that might need further discussion. At least I think those who vote for any reason not to have a home, and I took e.g. For example, I have to live with a lot more security than they now do. Part of my talk went on to impress the highest. A minister to bring a bill about increasing the legal standing of tenants because I am the spokesman for the individual selection, perhaps in contrast to the question. A senator. I want a person to have a choice either to rent and live in security, and even spend decades in the same apartment, the family could take over, or whatever the situation might be. For example, I am also a spokesman for the choice of getting into a car and driving between places or entering a beautiful city line.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-12-116.u239	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here at the end and thank you for an excellent discussion on this subject. Of course, when we have such big issues, we have differing opinions about some of them. We've seen it here. Between members of Congress, with government opposition, and even with members of the individual council, there has been a measure of concern about one thing and another. This bill is a factor in a number of primes that have been called on for housing issues and are linked to the biographies agreements. Here we have a bill on share loans designed to support the poor and young people into the real estate market as well as those who lost their assets in the collapse. The bill is the result of the biographer contracts. Two other key elements associated with the biographies agreements have been offered and introduced in open consultation. Another factor is the change in rents to strengthen the position of renters in the housing market. The third involves building regulations and simple building rules to cover the costs of human engineering. These bills are all part of the puzzle that the biographers deal is. I know that many of the comments and speculations presented here, without long discussion, can easily be explained by the committee. Many of the points presented here may be conflicting views. But most of my belief is that when the committee handles matters better, gets people from the Ministry, brings out those who have been involved for a long time in the case, they get the diagnosis and other underlying factors. You can answer all the questions and questions. While I hope that this case can be handled quickly and effectively, I have a clear understanding that the case is of the nature of the case that there is a valid reason for the committee to take the time to get better into it. I told my talks earlier today that I had an understanding of that. On the other hand, the sooner the work is done, the sooner the building market can prepare, and the Agency can prepare to provide such loans to individuals who truly need them. Of course, this is always a game of play in time. We want to be careful in handling laws, and we naturally want the other side to be effective when asked to do the right thing. I'd like to thank you for this discussion and state that the Ministry and its agencies are ready for written and planned and to provide information and anything that the Committee wants in the process of this case.
