ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u1	Borist has two letters from the financial and economic secretary asking for every request to give written answers to the inquiries on the deck. 859, for the New Land Hospital, hf., from Bergethhóri Bergþór of Ólason, and for the threshing floor. 781, on Richard's staff number, Andrés Ingi Jónsson. A letter has also been received from the minister of foreign affairs asking for every request to provide a written answer to a covering query. 124, the Ministry's comments on legal opinions, from Ólafur Ísleifsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u2	Mr. President. Today, for the council, the U.S. Council proposal is due. Transport and Regional Minister on rural policy for the next 13 years. I don't downplay this kind of work by thinking things through, investigating and specifying it. All of this is done in an effort to see that everyone has to walk. What is being done here must be done in the same way as in the same emphasis. Despite the fact that one of the main objectives of the programme is to promote and preserve the independence of the rural communities, there are conditions and conditions that are taking place everywhere. Populations, debts, democracies, and so forth are required. All this work calls to mind only the lyrics of a famous popular song that spoke of a small box on a river bank and everyone on a one - to - one basis. The problem is that rural society is so vastly different in size and size that virtually no comparison is possible, and little changes are made whether a rural community is compared to 150,000 inhabitants with 1,000 inhabitants or 300. No matter how difficult these rural communities may be, they can never fit the same island. So I think about it, " Is it a good idea to think again and to put fewer rules and trust in the local people for their own matters? ' You might consider negotiating a variety of projects to different rural groups. So that each community with the State or with any other community depends on the situation on which it can take place. One thing can take on maintenance of roads. Other people want to go to school or negotiate with others, etc. Different ways and methods may lead to better solutions. We need to live by the geographic reality in the land, and we should focus on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u3	Mr. President. I'd like to put it out of the top words. The financial and economic ministers he dropped into this hall last week, where he used the caution that everything could not be done for everyone. It is a familiar phrase that is heard regularly from the camp of independents and is always used to mislead, even flatter, the discussion that at any given time needs to improve the interests of those who are weak in this country. Few people have talked about doing everything for everyone, but some have pointed out that it is important to improve the interests of those who are paralyzed. If we look at all those who must be all Icelanders, it's clear that, for example, it has to be. not improving the benefit of the rich or reducing the fishing costs to the people using the resources of the nation. Yet, this government does, and that is done at the same time as consumers and senior citizens do not engage in pay development, for example. When I'm at the highest. This means in his books, doing everything for everyone. But maybe all of them are equal terms in his books.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u4	Mr. President. There, at an open meeting of Iceland's University Business School, the sex positions were discussed, and I sat there on a platform with other good people. The meeting began by introducing the findings of Ásta Dís Óladóttir to a study entitled Is Necessity Necessary? Or is there no demand for women in top management positions? As a result, the hall and the chairman raised such questions as: What is needed to balance the situation? Isn't there an infectious effect on sexuality laws? Is it realistic to place sexuality on the Commission? I would like to have one of those personally as a total emergency but I would also have expected the situation to be completely different and better than it is now in the year 2020. It may well be the matter of returning sexuality, and it is certainly easier for me to accept it when the data support a lack of demand and not a lack of volunteers from qualified women. It may take such effort to change our thoughtful, mental standard of what qualities are desirable for management positions. But it is also possible to take smaller steps with less intervention, hoping or pressing for such changes to help with these changes in our culture. Last week, he said "wow." paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson for a language designed to provide companies with a positive motivation for taking these matters firmly. It suggests an insurance bill for enterprises, including meeting the criteria for peak gender ratios will be reduced by 30%. And in the next few days, I will speak for, for the third time, a matter of increasing transparency in the investments of pension funds, the largest and most influential investors in Icelandic society, so that they will be made, if they are investing in enterprises where there is a significant gender balance, to support these decisions. Away from these two matters, it is clear that our responsibility here in this room is great. Jón Atli Benediktsson, Head of HI, was a master of the story in his introduction to the meeting yesterday when he identified equality as one of the most important solutions of the day. [[The president calls.]] In fact, national prosperity is a matter of equal and diversity. [[The president calls.]] We need to find solutions, especially if we are still going to be the leading people of equality.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u5	Mr. President. At the beginning of 2014, animal welfare laws became meaningful. The purpose of the law is also. that animals that are designed to exist are free of any kind of distress or suffering. The laws of the law are also designed to ensure that animals can live up to their normal behavior. I put a question mark on this concept of well-being, including In view of the treatment of animals, the end of the animal population is given. Is my well - being appreciated when I'm considered a product when I'm killed? I can't accept that. There may be discrepancies in the treatment between humans and animals. This inconsistencies resides in the accepted understanding of the relationship between humans and animals, the understanding upon which our tradition and laws rest, the understanding that I have personally come very far away in the latter time. Animals are sentient creatures, have feelings, and experience pain. Likewise, it is not necessary to apply it in one way or another. On these two grounds, I build on the foundation of my stand. We don't have the right to life on animals. The production of their life is merely for consumption, pleasure, or entertainment, a fundamental destabilization against which I stand absolutely. In addition, I'd like to say that this claim that we live in an animal life is the manifestation of a global consumer society that I believe is the root of a climate, actually a world movie where we believe we have the power to flood the earth as well as the lives of others, whether it's an animal or any other human being. To cope with the danger we face, we need to take many steps back from this world scene, which would be the subject of another speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u6	President. Is global warming a conspiracy, or is there a global warming around the corner? Whether the loud people on either side are right or not, the fact that the sea on either side has been warmer than it was is. That's why the mackerel has arrived. It is fact number two that when the sea is warmer, the storms will become stronger and more frequent. We now saw this in the 50 - year storm, a sold - out storm in the north, which used power lines in many parts of the country, especially in the north. These stronger and more frequent storms, out of warmer oceans, are expected to grow stronger and more frequent and pull the Arctic air down across the country. So the third fact may be that some do not want to see that the sea around the country is hotter, if you look at the discussion, and do not want to see that it means more frequent and stronger storms that sometimes blow cold air over the country. They use it as evidence that the world is not warming up. But the fact is that the sea around the country is warming up, and those who refuse to see these facts, they cannot be trusted for the national electrical security. They cannot be trusted with public defences who do not want to take this into account and cannot be trusted for the government of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u7	A respectable president. With all due respect to all other matters, I feel as if one matter is totally out of place today, and that is the so - called crown virus. The CDC and the State Marshal's Department found you this morning and was decided to work according to a national influenza pandemic program. The plan supports the P.R. and Disease Prevention Act and is expected to be reduced for a certain period of time, a part of the nation's population being bedridden because of illness and mortality beyond what is expected on a standard year's visit. The CDC expects the virus to come, as appeared on Castis Show last night, as he was along with our fine surgeon, in an interview with Jóhanna Vigdís. It doesn't change the fact that, as he says, it's not the question whether the virus comes to the country but when. We're going to have to be brought here at the High Council. Politicians will have to make decisions. I don't know how hard they get or how heavy they get. I don't want to be afraid, but the fact is, we're all around the world dealing with something. The Australians have gathered a group of their citizens from these infected areas, where the virus is originated in China, and they have been sent back to solitary confinement there for some time. I want to use this opportunity in particular and commend the Chinese for their amazingly good reaction and how they have acted in it. Now they are, for example. I've shut down all the tourist currents from their country on group trips. And just in the end, seeing that my time is over, I want to mention that the Chinese ambassador in Iceland has taken a good example and has previously canceled a gala party at the invitation of the Chinese people in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] But I say, it's something we really need to take hold of. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u8	Mr. President. Recent studies show that the nutritional state of the elderly is much worse than health authorities realize. As Ólafur undoubtedly knows what is, one of the more serious problems of the elderly is weight loss and muscle atrophy or sarcopenia in Latin. Previously, muscle atrophy was considered a natural complication of aging, but now we know that it can be protected in a much better way than has been done with better nutrition and exercise. It is important that health authorities and older ones work together to improve the situation. I mean, in cooperation with clinics and that at the clinics, there could be a hobby who could handle this program. Another is that at home nursing, where there is a great job and so I've come to know it a little bit, the need for this integration of home care and health care, the intermediate between the patient and the health care agency so that we can reach out to the person who is becoming isolated. Another thing I can tell you about health problems, what's being done good things there. I've seen it for the past four years, and I'd like us to take it here at the council, a respectable president, for a considerable consideration. It is the work of Guðlaugsson God's son, who has both in Rhinestown and in Hafnarfjörður. I've seen people in their 70's and 80's with walkers out of their walkers. This is so important to the health field that it releases these people into their home. Improved health is obtained by improved exercise and nutrition.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u9	Madam President. It is important in democratic societies that they may be criticized as well as the chief rulers of the State. Sadly, in this country it has been customary for citizens and members of the council to be ashamed and to suggest in some way that the nation is unappreciative and unappreciative. The health system has been subjected to criticism in the past few months and years, and the lack of capitalism has been shown. Of course, the health - care system is not the only group where there is no financial support but too often the answer is that there are enough funds and donations that have gone up. What matters are that it forgets to take into account that, after the 2008 financial collapse, contributions to all the lawsuits were greatly down, promising that it would only be a temporary situation. V.E.G. During the same day, a health minister showed that money to the hospital had increased by 12% over three years, but we need to keep in mind that such percentages and promises are of little significance if not put in the correct context. A 12% increase in donations over three years to the Hospital sounds very good to voters. But if we put this in context with the following statistics, we'll blow. This would be good if it had not been so that from January 1, 2017 to September 30, 2018, the population of the population increased from 338,450 to 362,860, or by 7.2%, if the population of 70 years and older had also not increased by 7.2%, and if the Land Hospital had not been significantly increased by a large amount of funds before this increase in production, and if the population population had not increased by 3 times over the three years, and if the Landspians had not had to carry full cost due to these travelers. The hospital is under intense pressure. Being brief and repetitious does not change the fact that there has been a serious accident in the emergency room itself. Are we not a community that wants to offer health - care and health - care environments that make it possible for them to do their best? [[The president calls.]] After the collapse of the financial breakdown, I believe that her patience is nearing its end.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u10	Mr. President. During the past few weeks, giants who have crossed the north of the country have hardly missed it. People have experienced insecurity, communities have been closed for longer and shorter periods of time, and it is important that a strong safety network exists. There's a lot of stuff that's gonna happen. Many services have been performed in the area, such as important emergency services. Therefore, there is a sure availability of a medical flight as a result of sudden serious illness or an accident of life's necessities, especially in the case of a group accident. At airports for hospital flights, there has been a poor schedule and a considerable lack of air pollution. I'd especially like to discuss the situation at the Meteorological Airport, in view of the fact that in the past few weeks it has been closed for even more days, both north and south, and had to rely on medical flights. There have been serious accidents and gang accidents before the bus crash. However, there is a very serious situation that has not been properly equipped for the use of a mix-up ground. Even fliers need to be kept in place, even to adjust aerodynamic light that does not cost large amounts. We need a GPS system. There's 700,000 cars going around there every year. Then, when the case is taken up, each one points to the other. It is not clear who is responsible for the maintenance lack of the two-way airport. Istavia reports a decision on the maintenance, service level and structure of the airport to be at the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs. However, a media minister's assistant has told us that the Ministry does not interfere with the way Istavia advises money, Istavia handles the airport. It's completely unacceptable. One thing is that it needs to be done better, but it must also be explained who is responsible. Should anyone accept that responsibility and do what needs to be done? I'd especially like to call attention to this situation on the mix-up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u11	A respectable president. The various disasters that have swept across the nation, weather conditions, economics, professionally, come to our attention in various ways, but first and last, after visiting the West and the South as well, people call for decisions. Though it may be useful, it is not a call for groups, groups of work, or committees, especially for making decisions when all the data is available. During a large meeting of residents in Florence after the avalanche in the West in January, one resident said very clearly: The people who ask for only an opportunity to live and to work. The chance to live and work - I think politics owe the people, whether west, north, east or south, to make decisions that can lead to progress, lead to uncertainty; answer issues about the community school, eliminate uncertainty when it comes to the construction of avalanches. There are plans, there is an organization, everyone knows about it by a treasure, but then just another group is appointed. Or as one committee member said, sending an e - mail was the easiest thing to do, and the answer had already come about what needs to be done. My appeal to the government is to get to work. It's been less than a year since the entire government was marching south with water when WOW went under. What has happened since then? All that Southnes unemployment has increased from 4% at the same time a year to over 9%. But the government is not at work. I sincerely ask her to find a way to make decisions. There are some things that are ahead of us. There are many things you can do to eliminate people's uncertainties, give them the opportunity to live and work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u12	A respectable president. You know, it's kind of like, when you're a computer nerd, when you use your computer a little different than most other people, people often assume that you're hacking something. Often, when I sit in a coffee shop or even in a church hall and people watch my screen, I assume I'm doing something scary and scary. My screen has lots of letters in different colors and colors. I feel the same way about being a Pirati. I feel, when it comes to confidentiality, information and transparency, that Pirats are always expected to leak some evidence, that Pirats are mistaking evidence, that they are Pirantars who do not respect confidentiality. It's not like that. On the other hand, we may want to revise more often whether we really need all the secrets and all the confidential things we expect here. True, many things, or some, need to be confidential, and that confidence should be respected. When the evidence is delivered in confidence, I don't talk about if there's delicate evidence, we should respect it unless there's something great that needs to be revealed, something that actually forces a man to lawbreakers; reveal Edward Snowdens's informants or something like that. This does not mean that everything should be confidential. This does not mean that we should automatically assume that we should always be on guard as to what we talk about or what we say. We're generally supposed to be able to tell about what's going on in our lives and in our politics. In general, we should be able to express our views. In general, we should be able to call for an investigation of alleged corruption without being convicted of a protocol, just to name a close example. The situation here at the Council is, sometimes, that you shouldn't say anything, make sure you don't say something that someone might resent that you're either breaking your faith or crossing some invisible line that no one has, by the time I remember, defined. They should respect their faith, but that does not mean that everything should be confidential. We are to approach our work here, thinking that we can serve in general with openness and benefit. It's no surprise that the Piratars have that opinion, and that doesn't mean that Pirat's confidence is in what he's talking about here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u13	Mr. President. The European Union's agricultural policy is wide, and within it is a vastly fortified network with multiple objectives. Farmers are strengthened by various kinds designed to make it possible for them to operate on their farms. To ensure full transparency of the resources spent on these projects, it is mandatory to publish information on all recruiters, species support, and their amount. As a result, I can look up databases and see, for example. That Arnar Þór Arnarson, a farmer in Vejle Kúmunde, got 8,528 dancers. in general and environmental concentrations of 3,892 in 2018 That's some 225,000 ice cream. K. Similarly, Ken Mogens Olsen, a farmer in Vording City, received at the same time about 9 million. Insemination. K. in the same strength. This is what I'm doing as a talker because of the highest. Agricultural and marine economist has responded to my inquiry about payment on sheep farms in 2014◯2018 refused to provide information on individual livings and refer to the General Assembly in which personal and sensitive information is discussed. Of course, that answer is unacceptable. It is not in the spirit of transparency to the provision of public funds. We have already taken steps to open accounts in the state, informing of the grants of public funds, the grant to artists, etc. This is where it takes the highest. Minister to take decisive action and measure the release of information on farmers'grants. If the highest. The minister will not do so, but the council must take action.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u14	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss the position of two airports located in the northern part of the West, i.e. The airport at the renovator and Alexander's Airport on a sheep's raffle. Following the completion of the country at the beginning of December and the storms that have continued to occur, there have been a number of cases and number of days where the Northern West has been isolated from other areas, as well as that the roads have been closed within the territory. Several times during this period of time, the final days lasted for several days. In view of the recent years, hospital services in the Northern West and, in fact, in many other parts of the country, have been moved to larger hospitals in the capital area, and in Akureyri, we have become much more dependent on medical transportation than before. More serious cases are treated in most cases in the region and are similar to delivery services. This makes it clear that the airports are a huge safety device for the inhabitants of this area and that they are important to be engaged and maintained permanently that they can be trusted during the most dire time. Alexander's airport has one of the best landing conditions in the country, and it almost never closes because of the weather and, in my opinion, a lot of others should play a much greater role than it does today. The Bedose airport is thus located very close to highway 1 and has proved itself to be an important safety device for the people and visitors of the area. It is a great security and community concern for the inhabitants of the Northern Republic and it is important for the government to listen to the voices of the peoples and rural governments in this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u15	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson came up with a case that often causes discussions and thought here at the council, which we will say is primarily about the respect of members of Congress when they are asked or needs the nature of the matter according to the facts. I agree with that. A senator's rule is that meetings are open and transparent and that unless there is a great need, there is no confidentiality. Whether the terms of engagement are a measure of pressure in this regard may be well - thought - out. However, I believe that it is necessary to maintain that it can be of utmost importance before the council, and above all members of Congress, to get information on a number of matters, even if they need to be confidential. There may be information related to events in preparation which may not be possible at that point. It may also involve business information, financial information and other information and, of course, an assessment is needed on a case by case basis. It's about an idea that had it. A senator has often tore up, that committees are usually open, so I think it's a very interesting subject. It has advantages and faults. Of course, because everything is open, the benefits are balanced. The problem, however, may be that it may affect confidential conversations between committees and even visitors on unique issues that arise. This, however, is a point that I think there is reason to consider and discuss, whether the rules need to be changed in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u16	A respectable president. I'd like to draw the attention of the world's council of Congress on Sólborg Guðbrandsdóttir, who keeps out the Instant site of ignorance, of better sex education in basics and educations, and of the community in general. Last week she delivered the highest. Minister of Justice 300 stories of sexual violence, where both doting and endure were under 25 years of age. In an interview with the News magazine, the Sólborg said that most of the stories included, with the permission of a president, intimidation in close relationships, violence within families, violence within school, violence with sleeping persons, and forced ◯ agreed. The project works out of the #meto revolution, but the emphasis is not on some particular profession, but on children and young people in general. My first case, as a deputy senator, was to submit a synonym to order a group of staff to reevaluate sex education in elementary and higher schools. At the same time, I sent an inquiry to the minister of Education and Culture on the increase in sexual education and in her response it was assumed that there would be a progressive sexual education in all schools of the administration program for the 2019◯2022 of measures against violence and its consequences. It even carries it. Suggested teaching on sexual health and sexual behavior will be promoted in elementary and higher schools so that students will receive more than one to two lessons at their school, as mentioned. Clearly, though, changes in this system are going too slow. I challenge a body of Congress to connect with Sólborg in order to get the stories delivered and the minister of education and culture to work faster and to provide proper sexual training for young people without delay. Finally, I want to take advantage of this opportunity to read from one of the accounts, with the permission of the president: A boy began to fondle me in high school. He began to do so in the fourth and fifth grade, and then he did so for several years. He came up at me in the back and grabbed me so I couldn't move and touch the breasts I just started to get. For once, I fell asleep in the hallway and woke up with him on top of me and he was kissing me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u17	Mr. President. Now it's been a very long Christmas break for the council, and I would have thought that a government that thinks they have any business would be quite off to a game full of new councils. That is not the case. Once again, the Senate affairs of the civilian council will be held on a program for the council. I guess it's about three-quarters of Congress and one-quarter cases from the government. This might be all right if the plan was to take care of these fine senators, but, of course, it's not. Mr. President. According to a recent Constitution, the Ministers are now delaying over 40 issues. I'd like to mention this in the first fall, so the President of Generalis can fondly kick the Minister's butt of this strange government, which, far too often thinks the council is some pointy stamp for his cases, which are both late and evil.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u18	The president encourages senators to be balanced in their choice of words.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u19	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture for taking positive action in this important discussion of equality for study regardless of the residence. The fact that we live in a large, scattered country and the increasing diversity of study, in line with the development of our good society, makes it necessary for a large group of young people to go through long distances, away from home, to pursue higher education of any kind, whether it is for a student's test, trade, university, or other special education. The nature of the case is the highest academic offer in the capital area, e.g. The University of Iceland itself, and hence the two biggest universities and the largest industrial schools. What meets students in the country where there is no education, an education institution that enables them to pursue what they intend to study or are interested in, is that here in the capital area is a difficult and expensive housing market. We've built some systems to deal with this. These include a powerful housing system for students, a student loan system, the right to the student's rent. Still, the situation has become that these systems, or resources, or whatever we call them are no longer sufficient. This is because waiting lists have grown long into student parks or other student housing options, limited renting houses, and very expensive rent prices. We can see this clearly in the data coming from the Icelandic loan fund, where fewer student loans and more people live at home. This makes it difficult for young ones who want to study hard. If it is not possible to stay in a home with parents or relatives or to have parental support on housing expenses, it will look forward to a very costly study beyond the general cost of study. As a result, young people may not be able to attend the study that they are interested in or may have to be otherwise in order to work full - time together with a study that is undeniably effective and may even lead to a loss of study. As a result, outstanding students who come from high school or high school may be unable to comply with their learning skills and personal study activities because of housing issues. Then students are about to get into it, e.g. correspondent in a South country, not being able to attend high school in his home band where there is no dormitory. Southland's high school has a powerful industry, but there students in the middle of the South and South East can not attend school because of lack of housing opportunities and housing resources during study. So I wanted to start this discussion at the highest. A minister of education on what we can do in that position of students in the country, wondering if we need not increase the number of homework, especially at a trade school where we focus on increasing industrial education. It would be best to increase the number of student camps, which I think are still working on, but could we consider setting priorities for students from the country whose parents'homes are less likely to live? The conditions for obtaining a rent contract, e.g. by making it possible for young people to rent a room of older people who no longer have children in their home, but who may not have room to fill a rent contract, such as special access to cooking and toilets and such? There are further ways to consider this position in the student loan system that we are considering in the council these days, e.g. with housing and residence grants? I think we need to look for all the ways to make sure that young people, no matter where they live in the country, are able to learn and apply their educational and educational skills without having to sacrifice much or to engage in secular work while studying. By doing so, we can make sure that we get a powerful person to work in the local community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u20	A respectable president. The only true goal of education is to equip a man to keep asking questions forever. I'd like to thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason for relating this important matter. I think it's perfectly clear that all of us who are in here and those who listen to us agree that in Iceland we want to be an excellent educational system. It must be outstanding for all regardless of their location. There are three principal features of the nations that have an excellent educational system. First of all, the extent to which all the requests and activities associated with teachers and school directors are outstanding. We're working on it by improving the development and attention of recent development, and it's gone very well. Second, it is the mental attitude that everyone can learn, that everyone is important, and that everyone can find himself in the school system, and we really need to be mental so that we can succeed. Third, it has to do with politics and priorities, i.e. setting priorities for education and equal opportunities. These are the three main institutions of modern education, and we're going to make it happen from now on. Let us now consider the situation of today's subject, access to education, and how we care for it. A good access to education is clearly a basic element in Icelandic human history. We want young people to have equal opportunities for education and maturity. We have achieved good results, and in international comparison Iceland is among the top countries in terms of education and education access. In general, access to education at all schools is good. The basic school system is efficient, and rural communities do well to care for their responsibilities in this area. At high school, there are 38 schools that run job stations or distribution classes around the country. A steady network of sustained education stations and dormitories at eight high school make the availability of high school quite practical at national level. Improved public transport, rapid technological development, and the cooperation of 12 high school in the country under the hat of the Far-City School have also contributed to improved access and higher education in the country. However, it is vital that we always consider this matter and see what we can do better, as noted in the case. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason. We look at areas where distances are the most important and do not have students'homes. Governments are meeting this group and providing special scholarships to equal the financial situation of students. It is made up of travel, food, and shelter that meet certain criteria. Last year the concentration of living was 156,000. - Okay. - Okay. A driving force is then assigned to students who attend schools from a lawhouse and go to school daily. The total concentration of driving in 2019 was 90,000. - Okay. - Okay. It is my vision that we give considerable attention to the development of these support in terms of GDP and that it can be brought near the real cost of students and their families. This year's budget contains 590 million. K. Set aside in such a scholarship. Some 4,500 requisitions may be expected but delay to apply for an equation strength for spring 2020 expires in mid - February. A respectable president. With the rapid development of technology and the changes in learning techniques, many forms of telecommunication have been rapidly increasing. Such development has made it easier for students to study independently, but in all cases local study sessions are expected to cost students at some cost. In this context, it is a special reason to rejoice that educational workers in parts of the country, with chronic education centres and knowledge centres, have rendered service to remote students in special educational facilities, e.g. for testing, or offering a learning position. A respectable president. We're setting up a team of workers who are going to try to map the need more for students who come from the area of the capital, but I'm also stressing that we want to promote technical and academic studies in the country, so all over the country is a good access to studies for all students.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u21	Mr. President. I thank you for your background, huh? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, and the highest. Education minister for bringing up and discussing the possibilities of those who live in the country for studies, both in high school and in college. A big change in the lives of families in the country is often seen when a teenager, perhaps 15, 16 years old, has to leave his parents'house to attend high school away from home. Even though it is often highly admired, especially when a man reviews his youth in his later years, how young he began to stand on his own feet away from home and with no support from home, there are others and changes in his time. Or isn't it? Mr. President. This is an important matter that is involved in giving all the inhabitants of this country as close as possible access to education. Of that we all agree. It's just a question of how to achieve that goal. V.E.G. The minister discussed new options, multiplied possibilities, the country's population for study, and is widely involved. However, this is not all because much study needs to be done closer to a teacher, and we cannot solve all the matters through telecommunications. V.E.G. The minister also discussed what the State is doing in these matters, such as. The concentration of stay and the concentration of driving is good. However, there are many large areas of territory that are not driving from high schools, where youths need to stay away from their homes, with all the costs and problems involved. The decrease in dormitories is a major problem, e.g. correspondent in the South as he came in.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u22	Mr. President. I thank the Vilhjálmur Will for this discussion. Necessary study equality is a very important policy. How do we make sure that this goal is achieved? Especially is it necessary for those who have to go long distances to pursue education. The volume of LIN is fine for a bottle, but that does not amount too much. Whether in rent or at home cost, the cost of those who do not have relatives to live with is considerable. The cost is added to another substantial expense, e.g. in academic purchases. In this context, even though students are few, a wide variety of educational backgrounds must also be guaranteed, allowing small schools to make room for a wide range of study opportunities. Small schools are highly dependent on sperm count fluctuations and are sensitive to such fluctuations. Often, it is difficult to obtain an adequate number of students from a certain study that leads to a loss of study. If these schools were to be allowed to start studies, although the number of students did not reach minimum goals, this would increase the degree of education and ensure further education in the community. Unfortunately, for a small number of people, pain and employment are usually bleeding. The importance of work and education is mentioned in the constant talk of all the Ministers of Education over the last few decades, so this should be an appendage. Finally, I'd like to mention gender equality when there is an equality to study regardless of where we live. It is vital that both sexes be sure of a wide variety of study opportunities. Sadly, the application to work and toil is still very sexual and it is important to consider that such a course is available for both genders.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u23	Mr. President. I thank the advisor and minister for her answers, and I can agree with what. A senator who spoke here about the small schools. True, a place of residence affects study equality as it is today, but I believe that this is not the case, and it doesn't have to be that way. I'm going to make it a topic of telecommunications. In many places a good job is being done to support the study program that enables students to attend what they want from their home. While remote is also relatively simple in modern society, there is a limit that it can become a single - sided social part of the study when a student sits at home with a computer and listens to a lecture that has already taken place or even if he is on the air. However, technology is rapidly moving forward and there are resources for telecommunications, which take into account the importance of social aspects of the study. A fine example of this is the robot Extremity of the University of Akureyri, which is also the case. To find in High School of High School in the Grinch. These devices make it possible for teachers to travel around the room, to be visible to students. In winter, we have been an uncomfortable reminder of how much the forces of nature affect all of us. One of the things that happen when the weather is bad is that school often falls, especially in the rural area. In my hometown, during the storm of December, it became impossible for the Shiverfjörg and Olafurfjörður to survive, and the Fear of Earth was shut for the first time. As a result, many students did not make it to the Grinch High School to attend their studies. However, the students did not die knowingly. Instead, they settled in the Mountain Loftur Library of Siglusar and participated in Skype, where the teacher was in Dalvik. It shows that anything is possible if the will is there, and it is important to be creative in our thinking when it comes to teaching and teaching. So does the Ministry. The most important thing is to ensure a student's variety in order to pursue the study he or she can pursue anywhere and whenever they want to. For that, there is a need. I have to say that the final words of a minister gave me the hope that schools and students across the country can thrive because it's important to let the work speak in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u24	A respectable president. Also, I would like to make telecommunications and telecommunications a subject during this fine discussion that I thank you for. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur, Árnason's room for launching. It seems that recently the person listed here began to look at opportunities for telecommunications and was surprised at how much is being offered, and he was surprised at how much it is used. Similarly, telecommunication means not only that people in some country can pursue telecommunications in larger areas, in Reykjavík and in Akureyri, but also vice versa. Also, offering to be a long - distance student in another country can be a strengthening aid in school. For example, a person who lives in Reykjavík who has never set foot on Sportun's school in high school at Sports, so it works in both directions. Strengthening telecommunication specifically means, I think, mostly, that it is paid for technology but that is what has been done for a long time. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir mentioned the phenomenon of absence a remarkable phenomenon and can be seen in the picture of such a phenomenon, all of which are very interesting. There is also the process of premise development that is developing more rapidly, at the time, some say, in contrast with the first part of this century, which was to be tolerated but did not. There's a lot of progress there, and there's an advantage, e.g. Social benefits, and can allow students to participate in things and to be more even spent, I can't remember the Icelandic word at the moment, a respectable president, or otherwise. We need to keep our eyes open for the development of technology that can improve this quality. I believe that it is not only the key to strengthening the ability of many to participate in studies that would be difficult for them to do so or that would require a great sacrifice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u25	Mr. President. Like others, I would like to begin by thanking the advocate for this case and Minister for participating in the very important discussion. It sounds to me that those who have mentioned that we are guessing that this is a very important and important matter. We need to consider giving such students the right and equal opportunity to study as well as the need for freedom of choice. Today, of course, there are no doubt that we have many opportunities to use and to use more fully, as many speakers have come in. Also important is the fact that young people can learn and stay at home and go to society. There is a new example, such as the People's School of Flatland, which has shown and proved that it plays an important role. There are former students already settling down. Strangers come into society and strengthen it. To name, e.g. how effective it has been that the University of Akureyri took up telecommunications in a nurse! It has completely changed the situation in many parts of the country, and it is noted that the facilities of nurses at the hospital in Isafjordur are nurses who started their studies by pursuing a long - term study from the University of Akureyri. I think there's a lot of opportunities. [[The president calls.]] We need technology. We need to do these things so that everyone can study what is right. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u26	A respectable president. I'd like to start with that, like the others before me, thank you very much. For taking up this need for discussion and for the highest degree of speech, Árnason the Year's Son. Minister of Education for joining us in it. We talk about equal opportunities for study regardless of our home location. It is great to hear about the developments that take place in technical terms, but it does not change the fact that we should speak not only of the same opportunities as students to study independently but of the economy as well. The fact is, among us are young people who are geniuses but who have never had the opportunity to pursue the education they have yet to pursue. I would also like to include in this discussion the opportunity of those who are not able to read after ten years of high school, which is more than one third of the students. They never have an opportunity to take advantage of higher education, for they have no reason to do so in view of the fact that they are not able to read after ten years of high school. First, the highest. The minister of education is here, and I know she's as worried about this as I am, I think we should build the foundation better and take it really seriously. We have to face it. I've sometimes thought this was some kind of a joke. Is it really possible to spend ten years in elementary school without being able to read? Is a third of the students still unable to read or do not understand well after ten years of school? We're doing some technical development, hopefully making the economy less difficult in the future, when more learning can be moved into the home so that parents can no longer hold their young in the home, where access is then available through computer systems and so on. There are many things to look at, but the discussion is truly needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u27	Mr. President. I'd like to start by thanking someone who's gonna say something about this discussion and the highest. Minister for good answers. Education is important for society, whether it involves book studies, trade, schooling, or other studies. Whether young people are willing to pursue further education after school, it is vital that this possibility be realistic, no matter where these young people live in the country. Young people who have to attend school outside the home have only two options for housing, i.e. renting a house on a public market or seeking an apartment in the student parks. These students don't get into the student parks first. Thus, this housing strategy is too often a complete waiting list for many years and often for many years. It must be considered unacceptable when we look at the standards. Young people who have no other houses to protect close to the university in the social facility of students must be assured of the priority. When it comes to public rent markets, the cost turns out to be very high. Those who do not have the assistance of their parents to cope with the expense of rent hospitals are thus more likely to pay on rent. The government offers to reduce rent costs for smaller tenants. However, rents do not cover any other type of rent than those on a rent contract, which requires room to meet certain conditions, e.g. Special room, kitchen, etc. Today, renting e.g. A single room and pick up some rent. Students in this situation should be made available to make room - extended rent payments available. We must work out the situation of young people who live on farms alone today. These differences cannot lead young people out of the country to further studies, to university, to education, to formal education, or to research, and therefore to be unable to bring expertise to their homelands after studies.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u28	A respectable president. Like most speakers in this discussion, study equality is fundamental. It is a constant challenge that needs to be viewed by opportunities of individuals, communities, and parts of the land. At any rate, there may be obstacles to study and growth. An advanced school of music in the capital area is, for example, one. Great, but without dormitories, students away from their families are doing quite a lot of trouble. It is important that the work is being done. The local community welcomes refugees, but home in the community where there is no expelled high school may become a barrier if students are not able to get equal because of their home. It is also a process of renovation. Families in the rural area have also encountered obstacles as children complete pre-school for 16 years of age, such as rejection of income taxation as a result of learning beyond home because their child's social security number does not show at 16 years of age. Far-and-explorement can meet many challenges, but it has to be sure that it serves those communities who need long-term studies, people who live around the country and smaller schools. It is such an extra product that national telecommunications are suitable for a number of people under different conditions around the country. In order to be able to provide powerful teachers in their field and in the school system with access to knowledge, personal study is required to strengthen smaller schools. Calculating is to be appreciated, and it is not natural to think that it is primarily the highest secondary or the ever-growing education centre that can develop the power of the size. On the contrary, it should be an incentive for smaller schools to do so right now in the Far - School of Education. Even so, high school and high school must not work hard to build a school society that makes it possible for those who are able to pursue standards.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u29	Mr. President. I learned from my first talk that my dormitory had decreased from high school in this country. It also applies to Southland High School, Selphoss, which takes away from all the South, also from the Court of the Year, and from the West Strategist County and all the way east of the Vikings. They no longer invite students to their dormitory for a long time ago. This certainly prevents students from studying, and it can literally prevent some from going to high school and from making it happen and especially now that there is a huge demand for housing, e.g. in Selephoss, and in recent years the prices of housing have gone up. What can be done? One authority mentioned such things as giving students who come from a distance to a home, e.g. Named him students' gardens. There can be a discount on school fees, check out the student loan system, etc. But the point is that these students should not forget if equality for study is meant to be real. Of course, this is about the growing economic situation, that the economy will not stop them from studying, and they will be too busy to study. This is a economic question. I'd especially like to welcome new schools of culture that offer dormitories where students can stay for a few months, and that's a welcome New Year's, as it were. It's an old tool in the Icelandic school system. This could be discussed with a number of other subjects, e.g. access to many other cultural events and cultural events cost by the State and all of us. There's the symphony, the opera, and other things. [[The president calls.]] Of course, national access to these events and events is quite different from those living in the capital.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u30	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A advocate for having taken the initiative to discuss equality for study. I'd like to cut the same knee as that of a boy. paritaprevir Karl Hjaltason Luis did and discussed my old school, South University of the Mountain, at Selephoss. It's an after-school that has a district from Thomson's Day in the East to Elfuss in the West. Because of this, students who lived far away were expelled from school so that they could pick him up. The dormitory was reduced in 2016, resulting in an equality to those who do not live on the road from Selephoss. Thus, it is not the same approach to secondary education for all youths in the region. Special attention should be paid to Southland's High School as the only trade and staff school in the area. The situation, then, is that students who live out of the road from Selephoss have to rent homes on the public market with the cost. In a good article, a young student at school, Sólmundur Magnús Sigurðsson, wrote about the case last year, with the permission of a president: ▪ Children don't belong in a rented market, and children should enjoy as much opportunity as they can learn. Yeah, it's as simple as that. Children have the right to have equal opportunities for study, and children should not be in a public rent with all the costs and weaknesses associated with it, since they have to be on their own without the help and security provided. A remote study is one way to ensure an equality for study, but it is also necessary to make sure that a student's dormitory is available where appropriate and for those whom it is convenient.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u31	Dear President. I'd like to mention two things that even I think. It is important to keep in mind when discussing individual education and equality in order to seek it regardless of where you live. I consider the technological development and the development of teaching to be the good thing, whether in the form of telecommunication or other services to be met by people who are unable to show themselves in school, whether because of housing or for other reasons, sickness, disability, financial status, or any other reason. Far - distance is often a good solution, even a pleasant new approach that brings us closer to the future. However, I believe that it is important that education be maintained may be an important prerequisite for the practice of the study, since close communication plays a key role. This should always be kept in mind when talking about telecommunications, how the project will be carried out. I would also like to add that it is important to consider all community groups in this discussion, and today I especially want to name immigrants, refugees, and refugees. We must ensure that people from abroad and their descendants are well educated. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's daughter's dismay that it's important that this group have the same rights in the school system as any other people in this country. This group may, depending on the experiences, find it harder to settle into real estate, figure out culture and traditions, and get over the hairs that may result from language problems. Community support is a key factor, e.g. that people can take in language instruction and have access to public support systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u32	A respectable president. Like most others who have heard talks about the telecommunications, I would like to give the impression that none of them are suitable for anything, and not all kinds of studies are suitable. You see, education is all kinds of things, and I would say that it will be more and more, as time goes on. Now we live in the so - called years of information, where people educate themselves informally and without going to school. They simply take in information, take in knowledge of the other areas, and do not ask a king or a priest or any of these things. One of the most obvious examples is computer science, software, or language. All of this can simply be learned by computers and Internet connections without teachers, without a syllabus and without testing. Then it's very important, I think, that there's a good system to take such an education and admit it, get it tested, and get it stamped out so that it's accepted. After all, in an environment where people are being educated more and more informally, gain knowledge and education through experience without having a particular test, a specific label from educational institutions, it is important that this level of knowledge is recognized as such because it is no longer what it was 50 or 100 years ago. Today this is easier, information is more accessible, education is more accessible, i.e. Oh, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. As a result of this, there are certain conflictes between those who are formally educated and who want that education to be measured beyond the education of the unschooled person and then to have other viewpoints on the other side. It is important to integrate this, i.e. That we acknowledge and respect the phenomenon of education, regardless of where it comes from and how it is obtained. It also means that our educational system has to assume that people outside the institutions that have probably been suitable for most of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u33	A respectable president. I have little to add to what I said in my brief talk earlier. Except this: Whose power is it to prevent discrimination, to prevent equality for government study, whether because of habitat or economics? To whom would that be? If anyone in this room, one of the country's elected representatives, is in doubt about what authority that is, I'll tell you. It's in our hands. It is in the hands of the legislatator to put his arms around the community so that the future in our children is respected and we do not discriminate against them whether in the territory or in the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u34	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for good answers and insight into this lawsuit party and whatnot. Parliaments for very business matters and good discussions. There's been a lot here. I'm going to start by saying that with the highest. The minister that it's all about putting students in first place, and it needs to be independent, as the discussion is about. The solutions we discuss to equalize opportunities regardless of location also come into play. paritaprevir Sæland hareland and others came on, i.e. that opportunities also need to be equal regardless of the economy and nationality and other circumstances of people and students. I believe finding solutions or measures to allow opportunities to be equal regardless of the home will have an impact on all of these groups. There has been much discussion of the importance of diversity in the way study is collected, and I agree with it. But I would like to emphasize that in view of the discussion that we are particularly involved here today, if it is possible to use the law, the principle of study, at least the second choice. Yet, there must be choice and freedom for people, whether they want to be a substitute student or a school education, or what is best for them. There are also different circumstances according to study articles. Some studies need to be a standard of study because of the specialized equipment needed for study and so on. Moreover, we should not forget the social feature of the field study that students are often reaching out for and molding for the future. I agree with what they said about the importance of homework. Hv. Councilmen Karl Gauti Hjaltason and Njörður Sigurðsson, et cetera. came to see how important dormitories are throughout the country. They specifically mentioned Southland's High School, but we have such examples in many parts of the world, and I agree with them. I thank you for your excellent discussions, and I hope we'll be effective in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u35	A respectable president. First, I would like to thank the advocates of speech very much for a very good discussion and for the members of the council who have spoken up. I'd like to mention a few things about what we're doing in these matters. First, there is the General Assembly on the School of Education, which includes transformation and will be more supportive of students in the country and the capital area. There will also be a possibility for an injury, especially for the country, in this new bill. Second, I would like to mention that high school has been greatly strengthened financially. Economic support for each student has never been higher, so we are greatly increasing in high school. I'd also like to mention that we've decided to set up a team that's trying to map dormitories in the capital area, and that's what we'll do with the European Union. We want to make sure that there are other options. I'd also like to say that this was a special discussion about the University of the South, where we have already started work. The report on how we're going to do this is ready. The reason the dormitory lay there was that there was no demand for a boarding place at that time. We need to be more supportive of our dormitory, and we've been working with the European Union. I'd like to inform you here, proper president, that we're doing a lot of work; new law on high school, raised financial support at a People School, reading sense, targeted actions. All children must be well literate in order to be active participants in democratic society. Finally, we have a warrant that refugees can borrow from Icelandic students, and that happened last year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u36	Mr. President. The Central Party opposes the legalization of rural communities to unite, so we will vote against this council-sense proposal. We will not vote for the changes proposed by the majority of the transport and environment committees. We believe that the state should promote unity where it is practical, especially geographically, and where the people of the rural community's will are united. This is not a matter of listening to the smaller communities who have strongly objected to these legal arrangements of government unity.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u37	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a suggestion that has become a community policy and that is the first time such a policy is placed before the Council. It stresses the sustainable and self-management of rural society with the aim of ensuring that the rights and access of citizens to services in close cooperation between countries and rural society. 11 measures are put in place to achieve this target. I hold to the proposal that it can lead to a turning point in business at the state of the country and in the affairs of the local community. To meet different viewpoints that have come in common From a few smaller rural communities on legalisation of the minimum population of rural society, the greater part adds strongly to the fact that the legal implementation of the law will be defined as flexibility which ensures exactly the scope of the rural society's work according to the population's will. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u38	A respectable president. Piranians oppose the pressure of rural society to unite, and we vote with a central party's change proposal to strike off unit 1. a section on forcing rural communities not to become fewer than 1,000 in 2026. It is in itself a fine goal to try to have your community at least the size of it, but the way it is being done is important. It is important that the independence of the local community is respected in action, not just by some legal option, but by our actions that we show respect for the self - determination right of the local community. I'd like to make a decision, though, that this matter alone does not violate the constitution, at least in my opinion. However, this point determines the methods that must be done and will be discussed in the various evidences of the matter. This fine thing can be commended by what we have seen so far, except for this one point, but we cannot support the 1st Team II. section. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u39	Mr. President. With the mention of the greater portion of this matter, there have been some factors that have to do with the unity and the details of the cohesion. Furthermore, it is pointed out that a carefully self-sustaining rural society needs to be defined, also how consultations between the new member of the rural community can maintain services within each rural community and also how eco-efficiency is based not only on rural financial factors but also on social issues that justify services in the less ideal collective community. So I support this synonym and view her payment as progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u40	A respectable president. A group of people respect their local self - determination rights. The people's party reject the fact that sustainable communities will be legalized together. A group of people cannot support such an action as this is used to vote for. On the other hand, if we are trying to help and adapt to the rural areas of all our strength that are truly needed and willing to unite, it is good for us to do so. Other than that, I tell the natural world here, and no further, we have no right to enter the Constitution's right partner on their independence, and we intend to force them into some cohesion process that they may not be interested in themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u41	A respectable president. I'm stressing that we're dealing with a synonym where 11 things are targeted. It's a conquistador proposal that will be won and settled with the local communities. The majority of the members of the community and their leadership call for this, and it helps me deal with this issue from the local self-opposed society that I totally support. As we have noted, it has been strongly emphasized in the committee's involvement with legislation, which is required to bring forward the obligation of the above. Talk about, must ensure flexibility and protect the independence of rural society as much as possible. I would also like to mention that the balance of debt has to be revised. Why should we demand to reduce it from 150% to 100% at the same time as we encourage unity? I don't think it helps the cohesion decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u42	President. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson to support a suggestion made by the Central Party here that, according to this, should not be permitted to force smaller rural areas or just rural communities in general. This is based on baseline Pirata distribution, to be chosen for distribution. This is a power compression, and it is not for the sake of the rurals who today have the right to reject unity. They will no longer have the right to exercise perfect self - control over the decision to join some other group that they do not want. I also point out that those members of Congress who intend to accept this matter should look to see if they have been advised that this will be possible against the constitution. Keep men really, and that's what the lawyer tells me, that rural society that is supposed to force harmony won't sue the courts? Be aware that you may be making badly informed decisions that conflict with a constitution. [[The president calls.]] Those who accept it and lose the case for the Supreme Court will look like idiots in this context. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u43	A respectable president. We, at Relations, support this case, but we want to make sure, as indicated in the Commission's list of parts, that it is important in its implementation on a law bill when it comes to rural society, if it comes to the population, there is enough room for legal unity. It's important to strengthen the level of government. The growing responsibilities of rural society and the increasing work they have done over the past few years are ultimately requiring larger units. So we all think it's good, and we'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u44	A respectable president. The union supports this case, and this is progress. Not only is this a matter of self - determination but it is also a matter of rural society having the resources to fulfill its obligation to its inhabitants. It is also an issue of rights for the inhabitants of all societies, the rightfulness of the whole country's population, that the rural communities that they live in have an abundance of resources to fulfill their many duties toward their inhabitants. This is also a matter of balanceing the situation of the entire country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u45	A respectable president. I consider these policies one of the biggest and best reform projects in Icelandic management for a very long time. When it comes to its implementation, it will promote the administration of rural society and increase their opportunity to expand their service to its inhabitants and recover it so that all the people of the country sit at a similar table. There are many opportunities for rural society to suggest with this recommendation the 11 measures here will become a new and powerful level of government in the country that can deal with the government, and we here in a much more effective way than is experienced today. I welcome the conclusion the committee has reached. I thank the Committee, and most important, for good work, I thank the producer Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir. I encourage members of the council who have come up here to speak very strangely about the suggestion to read it again and encourage them to participate in the progress that we will accept with this resolution today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u46	President. Now we're going to vote if we're going to take it out of this document. One day you would have thought that the groups making a government would respect the self - determination of the people in my rural society, groups that have previously spoken about the need not to legalize rural communities to unite, but are about to act as law-enforcers of rural society, and even go against the inhabitants's will. It's very interesting to see that there seems to be a shift in these categories. This may not be surprising, given the way things have evolved, but I ask people to remember that paying this vote is being done against the self - determination of the population.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u47	A respectable president. I vote by the change proposal to expel the missing persons through the legislation. If the council had agreed to this move, I would have voted for the rest of the case. I will not vote with the synonym if this conclusion remains in spite of my speech, if the adjustment is made, and the legislation will be maintained. I cannot finally support the whole case with this serious flaw in my own table. I have to say, in another respect, the proposal for the rest of my life is very much needed and a good work, but it does not matter just what decisions are made but who makes them. It is so obvious that when a rural society sees fit to be a minimum of 1,000 people and to join others, it will make that decision undisputed. This is a fundamental, respectable president, and that is the basis of the position expressed here. She does not flinch the rest of this better suggestion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u48	Mr. President. We live at two administrative points in the field of executives, the Ministry, the government here in the capital, and then regional governments, i.e. The rurals. The voluntary right of the rural society is protected from 78 percent. The Constitution, which says that they themselves control their affairs according to law. We are here following a dangerous path, Mr. President, and in sheer opposition to the will of many smaller rural communities in many parts of the country, and also some local rulers from the larger rural areas have warned strongly against going that way. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u49	Mr. President. I haven't kept it in order that the law we're paying votes about is going against everything I've stood for. That's why I vote against it. It's hard to go against their government troops, but I have to. If the case works out in the way I seem to be obvious, I will also not support the whole Parliamentary arrangement as well as it is. It's hard, too. I'm afraid we are starting a journey that we will regret in due time. People's ability to control their fates and their futures are among the fundamental factors we are to protect. That right is holy in my mind, and I will keep him. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u50	A respectable president. It is important that a minister take seriously the discussion that has taken place here when the bill that this synonym is proposed will be submitted. Two things have been held at a height as we know, the legal entity that we are here to vote for, and the financial support intended to promote and promote unity. I've been opposed, because law-enforced rural society to unite and in itself has not changed my opinion but knows that society calls for stronger rural communities. The idea of double the process combined does not make sense to me as well as to many others, and I encourage the minister to look into it. A greater proportion of the Environment and Transport Committee have referred to the financial support proposal to further the EU and the State's work for solution, and I'm assuming that their joint results are in place before the bill is submitted. These factors are of prime importance when it comes to my view of the bill that was then presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u51	A respectable president. I welcome the proposal we vote on today and celebrate the initiative of the European Union and the Department of Transport and the Ministry of Transport in this matter. On the other hand, I encourage the highest. A minister to carefully evaluate the comments that have been made during the discussion, particularly those that are turning toward two paces in the uniting process and adaptability in the geographical situation. At the same time, I encourage a minister to determine if it is not wise to consider a little more the debt ratio as it happens in the proposal, i.e. continuing to evaluate the overall debt of the rural community as a share rather than to cut it down in half, as expected in the proposal. I reiterate that I particularly welcome this proposal and the initiative that comes from these two parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u52	President. I must admit that I am terribly surprised that this case has been run through in this way and that men have decided to keep the laws of the legal uniting community. Even when there was an opportunity for men to take out that particular point and keep the rest, the majority of the members of the administrative body were rejected, including Councilmen call themselves the Independence Party. In reality, the head of the left movement claims to be against this point, but it still means supporting it. Mr. President. This is a major concern, and another example of this government completing a typical Convergence/Re development case. The two groups can so simply lean back and watch it go through, but the government begins to introduce the nonsense. I encourage the board of directors to study their own policy and cooperate with it. [[The president calls.]] I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u53	V.E.G. President. There are a lot of good things in this suggestion, but I say, like many others, that the legislation is very hard to deal with. I understand the view behind the role of my team that they can fulfill their duties under law, but I would feel that it was more important for me to suggest that the legal union of any of these councils here should be legalized. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress]] Most of them are unsuspectable, and thus they actually see manuals, but it's okay. At the Prince's Tip, it's very hard to believe, and that's why I don't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u54	Mr. President. I am simply surprised by many of the council members and a large part of the government of the anti - held parties, since they are not just voting with this council-sense proposal to force smaller rural communities in opposition to their will to unite, they also come here and say they are pleased. The self - determination rights of a community are very important. We're not supposed to go in there and force them to unite. We are on a dangerous course, as we have seen many times, and I believe that the experience of communities in various parts of the world is not unique. Who is, for example. The experience of local financial management? Have the big communities done their best? Has our experience shown this? But to the contrary, I remember that they have been in financial trouble much more than the fewer companies. [[The president calls.]] I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u55	A respectable president. I was going to sit by in this situation, but I can't help but vote against the proposal. I don't think that law is wrong. It's moral wrong. In my opinion, it does not pass the constitution, and certainly not the interpretation that we should add to it, even if we are able to find some clever legal means of justifying things the way politicians are tamed. Then there is something else that was told earlier, there was actually a sponsor of the case that actually got me to the red button by saying that the community self - determination rights were respected by the fact that more of them existed in this, i.e. A Union of Icelandic rural society. I think that's a pretty low argument, a respectable president, because self-sponsored court means that you're a man's boss, just like we don't run people's private lives in town. There is a certain limit to the authority of the government at any given time, to the citizens of the country and to the general council against the local communities. We are to respect it so that I cannot help but vote against this matter, a respectable president, on these grounds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u56	A respectable president. I'm very sorry to hear how this matter is going down in the Senate Hall. I think it would be wise for members of the United States to ask whether this changed their attitude toward the group that is here to support this case, for example, to take the organizational authority of Reykjavíkurburg in the area of Reykjavík, and the viewpoint on roading the Tart Forest. We might be able to get rid of the ugly rock in front of the General Assembly Hall if we made that decision one day. I think we're moving onto a path where there's a rush. Senators have not thought the matter through. I'll say no to the vote later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u57	Mr. President. I vote with the suggestion and support of it to the very best of my life. Like many of the people here have raised doubts about the points of the proposal in terms of community unity, minimum population population, and the like. We are not making such a legal decision with this proposal here today. The decision awaits the bill to be given by the Minister of the Legislature. I am convinced that he has heard the members of the council and has heard the viewpoints expressed both in the council hall and at the Senate Committee on the subject, so we are not making that decision. Despite my doubts about these terms, I cannot help but support the whole case, but I still think of the viewpoints that have come up clearly and must be considered when the case is taken care of by law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u58	A respectable president. This case does not fall from the sky. It's been working at the scene of the rural administration for many years, and in cooperation with the Commission, it's been a process of reporting on, green book, White Book, a great consultation with all the rural communities, a large part of the country's larger part of the country agreed on this proposal, so it's not just one thing. It is an assignment that many have felt strongly about being the right way to promote the level of government in the country. A debate about some type of community self-management rights being impaired or that the matter of a constitution is simply plain and clean. I encourage senators to read about it, stop choking for themselves enough, and say: It has been observed many times. Only those who claim to believe this are overlooked. It would be closer to listen to the scholars who have discussed that matter, such as to mynda Lárus Bjarnason, Bjarni Beneaksson the older, Trausti Fannar Valsson, og Ólafur Johnson, all of whom have claimed that the legislator's allowance is very bedridden. [[The president calls.]] It may even be said that if few are so limited that they cannot operate in a sustainable way without it, not having a minimum population number is a violation of the rural rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u59	It's going to be the highest. Minister to proceed to complete his case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u60	to get help from other rural groups or from the County Fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u61	V.E.G. President. I was thinking about sitting by this vote, but I just can't because when I read this suggestion I see that under, over, and all around it is all over what we in the middle of the party would have had out. Yesterday's debate with those who are in favor of the proposal was in my mind as if this law was not present. It pains me not to be able to accept this or to sit by, but I believe I am moved to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u62	A respectable president. I was going to say something about the vote, but maybe it's not all that important, I'm going to put it behind me to explain votes. We at the Central Party shall support this proposal in that, with its aims, we simplify the system in which the public and business must deal with the government, that, when the outcome is reached, this will be one of the many steps that we need to take to reduce the reporting, that the occurrence of the population that has to attend a long course of service, e.g. Outside of the country, you have to make a trip to the capital to resolve simple issues. The priorities of the Central Party supporting this issue are that this will be a step toward simplifying the system that the public and company need to deal with on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u63	A respectable president. I thank the Committee for a fine job considering this proposal. I notice that the proposal is called a synopsis of the establishment of the government's office. In the end, there is no longer a suggestion in this synonym, and it is relevant that I can support this matter, for it in itself says, as it is changed after the treatment of the committee, nothing other than what the government is doing, that we long ago have decided to make digital ways for public relations. In these days, we are appointing a digital leader in charge of the Department of Economic Affairs, who is responsible for the digital production. We will see very significant changes this year in digital solutions for public service. [[The president calls.]] To this end, it is possible to accept this text, which really is no more than to encourage us to follow the same path.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u64	Mr. President. I'm particularly happy that this Pirata and I are very supportive of this proposal at the council. This group of paints has been homeless for a very long time, and it's good that the Ministry of finance starts work. We had a good partnership on the Economic and Business Committee to make changes so it would be a greater flexibility for the Ministry to do this. I hope to the highest. His minister of finance is doing this very well because it is not acceptable to continue as we have in the past few years. We've had these cases in the past. There are over 1,500 databases that no one has an accurate perspective on, so there's an opportunity to do better, and I further encourage the government in this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u65	A respectable president. I will, of course, vote with the proposal. A word of the highest order. I've got some questions raised by financial and economic secretary. Of course, it's great to do well, and when people say they do good things already do, I get doubts because there are so many things that have gone wrong with the government over the years. I have no time to trace it in 30 seconds, but it is important that a policy is taken that involves something more than just software or integrating one or simple other. It is important that software is open and that possession is in the institutions that pay for it. It takes real political technology policies to make good progress, so I encourage the highest. Minister to act. And so do I. A minister to look beyond what has been done so far and to do his best to set such a global example. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing we need to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u66	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson for making this suggestion. It's very important, it's about what's been called until a recent trial in a prisoner but now it's called a therapy and rehabilitation policy in the prison system. The subject of prisoners has a strong tendency to get out of the way, and there are understandable reasons for that. The nature of the party is that prisoners are people who have done something wrong and who are in prison so that they are not in the community for one reason or another. This does not change the way we handle prison affairs all the things we have to say about how a community we build up, both when the prisoner is out of prison and what it looks like in general. That's why it's important that we put away the thinking that I know is the dominant, that somehow it's okay to let the prisoners go when it comes to mental, educational, or similar activities. We need to view this group as another community citizen, not just rights, but the interests of all of us and our community, that we treat these people well and help them back into life. [[The president calls.]] It takes money, which takes time, and it takes compassion for their position.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u67	A respectable president. I rejoice and thank for the fine support this case can receive here. This proposal is now proposed for the third time; it was presented during the last two conventions, but it is now under way. This includes a fundamental change in how we approach prison affairs and hopefully disappear from the criminal policy that has been taken along in a much larger scale so that we really contribute to the judging in general that we are reinventing and improving the lives of prisoners where possible and, hopefully, returning them as better members of the community to the community. I'd also like to thank you here that the government has already taken certain steps in this state that are very positive. Let's hope this turning point in how we approach a criminal bitch in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u68	A respectable president. It's easy to agree to a proposal like this, because it was December. Prepared measures to promote health care care measures for substance use within prison. I'll continue working according to it, and it's just an increase in power, but I can't agree with it. A senator says that this is a change in government approach. These suggestions include: I'm putting a psycho team in the jails. They're raising all the health services that prisoners receive as well as being examined in my Ministry as well as the education of prison guards needed to secure a trial. It is the responsibility of the government to do everything within their power to make sure that there is real correction in the prisons of the country, and I am grateful and delighted to see my unique support in this council hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u69	A respectable president. Like the Minister of Justice before, I thank you for this proposal and payment, but I can no more than the Minister of Justice before words, because the proposal says that the Minister of Justice, Social Affairs and Child Affairs, Education and Culture and Health Ministers should set up a team for the development of a whole-scale treatment and rehabilitation policy in the prison system. As a legal minister traced earlier, such work was started last year and results were submitted at the end of that year. Tollli Morthens was responsible for the very existence of this report, and it was introduced in the government and then officially at the end of the last year. The government agreed to follow it so that I am no more than a report can be sent directly to the council after the approval of this resolution. [[Up front.]] I'm glad there is a solidarity in the direction the government operates in and out of. Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u70	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalise defenses against interest issues with the highest executive executives of the Iceland Management Board. The bill is written in the Ministry of Presidency with the aim of setting clearer rules on the work of the Directorates of the Council, who have the highest authority in the affairs of the administration to ensure that they are doing their work in the interests of the public with integrity. This is the minister, the Ministry, the office manager, and the ambassador. Then, part of the bill includes assistant ministers, even though they are not considered strictly to the highest authority of the Commission. The matter is rooted in the government parties' covenant for government partnerships that highlight good management, open and transparent administration and that efforts must be made to communicate information about decisions and processes that concern public interests. In that spirit, I presented a bill for the change in information law during the last assembly adopted. In the same spirit, this was given a bill approved of freedom of expression and the silence of public employees. Now's the time. The General and Education Committee, as well, with my bill for the protection of informers. Here comes a bill that is rooted in a growing political and administrative group that I appointed early in 2018. That group was even. ... tosee what changes were necessary in the laws and regulations to increase transparency and defence against corruption, contribute to public employment and deal with interests in the context of administrative and professional life. The staff returned a report in September 2018, which included 25 proposals for the government, including the application of interest logs on this bill, dealings with the price of interest, the Icelandic word for what we sometimes call the Globes, and work selection at the end of public employment. This bill is designed to meet the above recommendations as well as to meet GRECO's criteria, the National Association for Depravity, at the fifth assessment in Iceland, which was directed, including the U.S.A. to the highest authority of the European Commission. The bill on interest registration in Article 2. Based on the principle that the highest executives of the executive and assistant ministers will be required to report their property, debt and responsibilities in the country and abroad, as well as information on marriage mates and illegal children present to them. Then the same group will be required to report gifts and other benefits and benefits in relation to the work, which will be further defined in Article 2. The reports are transmitted to the Ministry of Presidency, which hold them and publish it to the public on Iceland's Management Board's web. In order to obtain information about the interests of the highest European Commission and the privacy of their private life, such rules need to be balanced between the demands of the public. In view of the latter viewpoint, it is recommended that certain exceptions from the principle of reporting interest and public information about this should be made. It will be considered in 2 paragraph. Thus you will not be obliged to report debts and responsibilities on houses and automobiles to your own use, commitments to loans, less commitments to traditional loan institutions, to a sum of less than 5 million. K. and gifts under $50,000. Then it is not expected that the section of the registry covering spouses and children presenting these workers will be published publicly, but the Ministry of Presidency will keep out the information and use it for their advice and surveillance role which I will do more closely in the following. In the 3rd. The bill contains the rules for improving the work of the highest executive executive and assistant minister, which states that these jobs are considered to be full work and that a principle is prohibited from performing additional work together. It will be possible to apply for an exception from this rule if the proposed additional work is for humanitarian work, training or academic work, scientific research, artistic or other non-employment activities, but it is always a requirement that the job does not affect the individual's work for the Iceland Board of Directors and pay is considered to be within reasonable limits. The Ministry of Presidency cancels requests for an exception and publishs a document on the state of the Management Board's website. These are similar rules and have so far been accepted as a minister's extra work, but their levels expand to cover the manager, the office manager, ambassador, and the minister's assistants. One of the main topics of the bill is to grasp the interaction between the executives of the European Commission at the so-called interest prices or the Globes. The concept of interests includes those who speak in private terms to governments and endeavor to influence their work for employment. It should be noted in this case that it is probably in general that governments take into account the needs and expectations of individuals and companies affected by government decisions. It is not unusual for private stakeholders to place their interests on public matters, either in general or in private matters. Because we now have an overview of a meeting in open journals, it will be shown that I have had many meetings with interests in my time as prime minister and not unusual. It is normal to look for viewpoints there. The focus here is for transparency. On the other hand, you are aware that at times such relationships are automatically viewed as suspicious, they are not. However, this is an attempt to increase transparency around these communications. The role of stakeholders and interests may be important when it comes to preparing laws and regulations, making decisions, making negotiations, and other projects. However, in the spirit of what I said before, the rules of the bill are not to prevent the work of stakeholders, but to ensure that, as possible, government relations with them are based on a legitimate and grammatic basis, information about communication is available to the public. In Comb 4. The bill states that it is mandatory to record information on communications in accordance with the information laws, the public libraries and the European Commission's legislation. But, as it is known, in current laws, there are clear laws to take up meetings of such meetings and to hold them. Then you can find it fresh in 2 mg. of the law, to inform about the presence of stakeholders and other private members that the contract of the head of the board should be set up in a report by prime. It is important that all members of the body and all the people of the general population can easily understand when it is agreed to recommend an outside party that may be of interest to them. The bill assumes that before a stakeholder seeks to interfere with government activities on behalf of his clients, he should notify himself and his role and, in announcements, identify the employer's name and ID of the interests of the employer and position and role, i.e. For whom does he act and their main interests? It should be noted whether its function is persistent or interdependent and when it is expected to be completed. As stated earlier, the Ministry of Presidency is expected to keep a tight grip on the registrations and to publish the public on the board of directors' web. However, an exception is made because of the presence of stakeholders on the basis of administrative law. Such announcemental duties would be very burdensome, with thousands of cases occurring each year. One of the proposals of a political and administrative trust team is to set up the rules for the selection after the completion of public employment activities that prevent workers from entering jobs for private workers because of access to public information. It is increasingly common for countries to set such rules and to have Norwegian men develop a system where a special committee can forbid the introduction of public employees to start new jobs for up to six months. It's not suggested that we go as far as we can at first but to 5. The bill is considered a ban on the use of information that they had access to or anyone else for abnormal benefits to the head of the executives and assistants. Then they would be forbidden to become stakeholders for six months after the Commission's work. The Ministry of Presidency can provide an exception to this ban if there is little or no risk of conflicting interests over the new job. If this is denied, the employee should continue his pay until the end of the six-month period or until he begins another job. A registry will be published on the board of directors' website to the public. Six. The bill discusses counseling and monitoring in relation to the points mentioned here, but it is assumed that the Ministry of Prime Ministers will perform this role, as already its Ministry is responsible for responsibilities on the legislation of Iceland's Management Board as well as in the ethics of the Ministers and staff of the Council of Government. If the bill is legal, the Ministry can initiate initiative checks when it is suspected a violation against the new rules. Such issues can already begin as the Ministry of Presidency holds a list of interests, but also on the basis of external comments or media coverage. If the Ministry's opinion suggests a violation, it is expected that it will inform the results to the relevant Ministry office that has the authority to resort to resources on the basis of personnel law, such as reproof or resignation. In terms of the staff of the Ministry of Prime Ministers, it is the prime minister's opinion whether such measures are needed. In the first place, it is not suggested that specific penalties be prescribed for violations of the bill's regulations, but it should be noted that such fractions may have to do with criminal responsibility according to the guidelines of XIV. the general penal law on violations of public employment. As regards a minister, it would not be proper to assign a prime minister to consider the alleged violation of other ministers on such rules. As a result, according to the European Commission's principle, each minister is the highest executive in his field. However, the new provision may be considered when considering whether a minister has violated the laws on rights of being a minister. However, it is recommended in Article 8. the bill that further regulations for the implementation of this procedure must be agreed in the Regulation. These include inclusion criteria and publication of information, home secondary work, when stakeholders are required to report their role and to abstain from bans on employees becoming stakeholders at the end of operations for the Management Board. It is then permitted by a Regulation that other members of the Board of Directorates than the highest executive executives of the Commission should notify their interests, gifts, benets, and additional work. Each Ministry shall keep a list of the information, but in the light of the viewpoints on privacy, it will be forbidden to publish it to the public. A bill on the bill discusses the reviews that were received when the language was presented in consultations, both the plans, and the bill. It was in November. as the bill was put in the consultation puzzles and, including, received a review from the Association of Professional Life, which states that the organization considers it positive to set clear rules for the highest executive executives of the European Commission and to support the legislation of the bill taking into account some comments. In terms of interest prices, the organization believes that it must include all those who act as guardians of interest, whether the connection with private stakes is direct or indirect, obvious or hidden. Furthermore, they stress that it is important whether this will only communicate with the European Commission or other institutions. More than that, these comments were discussed, but in view of the review, some changes were made on the bill. With reference including to the reference work of the National Association of Economics was published that interest prices need to have the main work of speaking a matter of private interest. It was added that lawyers and associates could handle registrations on behalf of individuals who worked for them and were sharpened in a report to form a set of criteria for reporting interests. Mr. President. I think the bill will get a lot of discussion. The administration and monitoring committee that will address this matter. If I know that many envy them why. Congressmen there are covering the exciting task that faces them. However, I believe this bill is a factor in achieving the objectives of a government contract, i.e. to promote a structure that is fundamental to trust. I believe significant progress has been achieved, including with the originals that have become legal or are here for treatment already. But clear rules, including those, are extremely important. for the registration and management of the interests of the highest European Commission, in place and in a clear manner. They are essential for such trust. The results of national and foreign experts were considered in the contract of this bill. I gave a group of members of a growing trust in politics and administration. I also mentioned GRECO's comments to the European Economic and Development Agency, OECD, on public integrity. Finally, I'm going to refer to the definition of OECD on public integrity. It means that rulers do what is right when no one is watching them, putting the interests of the public above their own, and removing their assignments so that they can pass their minds. Some might conclude that setting stricter rules on interest logs and increasing translucency on the top of the European Commission shows that something suspicious is going on. On the contrary, I think it shows a willingness to promote transparency, a desire to have most of the information open to the public all because it is mine to know this foundation of trust and integrity. I believe this involves a positive step toward the more advanced and more efficient governance within the board of directors. However, I believe it is only natural that the implementation of this procedure will be determined on the basis of whether to increase the requirements of the highest European Commission. If the regulations of the bill turn out well, there is also reason to consider extending their values and even extending these laws to more groups than is expected today. I can mention, for example, the executives of the independent states, who would like to have great interests in certain areas of the administration of the administration of government, local government, and members of the General Assembly. Of course, the generals have set their own rules on how to sign interest. They have recently been modified, so now there are debts, beyond personal mortgages and student loans, listed here on interest logs. However, I believe that the Council might consider whether it would be reasonable to set the rules of how to communicate with members of the Parliament at stakes in the manner suggested here. Of course, it's the Senate's decision to take it, that's not why I'm representing the European Commission here. However, there is a debate that may be able to continue the field of the council. In order for this bill to accomplish its purpose, it is important that all preparation be done carefully, the legal procedure, both to the employees involved in affecting and to the stakeholders who need to announce their role publicly. It is therefore suggested that they be effective on January 1, 2021. Mr. President. I'm not going to make this story longer than suggest that the bill be referred, as previously indicated. The management and monitoring committee and the 2nd. at the end of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u71	President. I'm glad that this bill is presented at the end of the important matter of preventing conflicting interests. I'd like to ask the highest. Twofold Prime Minister First of all, section 4. of interest prices. One minister says that if you meet someone on the street and talk to him, this will not be possible. Are there any ethical rules or responsibilities to make sure that extracurricular or unofficial prices are not being met? The second question is on 3 mg. 7. g., that it should not publicly reveal the section of the registry that takes over to the office manager, secretary and assistant minister, whether the Minister is not concerned that this will result in their failure to register gifts or that the minister will register gifts on this staff in order to prevent the publication of their own interest registration.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u72	Mr. President. According to the rules in force, in actuality, in the relevant laws, in the information laws and laws of the Council of Government, we should enter both formal and informal communication. However, the price of interest has not been defined as such on matters of public interest. If I meet up with the head of the business community in swimming and we talk about our children, it's not something I need to be able to do, I don't have to register the natural relationships. This is Iceland, and we met. But we are discussing, for example. The views of a business body on a bill are informal communication on issues to be recorded. As for the gifts, I understood why. That's how a senator, I didn't quite get it, whether gifts were possibly added to other employees who didn't hear this bill. Well, maybe. A senator might explain this better in his later answer?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u73	President. Like I understand it in 7th degree. the information that is recorded in the Ministry about gifts should be published publicly, but 3 mg. is made of annuity: ▪ Despite 2 mg. it is forbidden to openly publish the section of the registry that includes the office manager, ambassadors and assistant ministers and is also an exception to information rights. I understand this point of privacy. But I wondered, though, because now the office manager and assistant minister are working very closely with counsellers, whether it would be normal to publish this information to ensure that there is no interest issues and that the public is informed about such gifts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u74	Mr. President. Of course, this is a difficult average of things to do. The senator asks. In fact, these gifts are expected to be reported, and then they are reported by the Ministry of Presidency and then by each Ministry, in the case of the concerned, to monitor that this is reported and recorded to allow the information to be available, but it is not published automatically. There we are following, we can say, in the middle of the privacy of people who have not necessarily chosen to stand in the public field and those who are doing what is the supreme authority's office, and who are under the law of the Minister. There's an average person we've chosen to go. Likewise with marriage mates and minors, we suggest that this information not be published but, of course, what we can call the government's internal regulation on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u75	President. People who are entrusted with power are repeatedly faced with the temptation to use public power for special interests. It could be said that for the time of the community media, when the servers were relatively central, and relatively united, the business model worked fairly well, using public power for special interest, which, whether it was in the form of a donor for the sake of the money, helped the rulers return to the public with votes. Now there's been a step toward limiting this. Here is a good step toward doing things, so the temptation that rulers are facing is less likely to be because the public will be able to see how they treat the public. It's like the highest. The prime minister came in earlier is the council that set out certain rules for interest registration and such, in form of GRECO. We don't fill all the CRECO conditions. How are these proposals met by Prime Minister GRECO conditions?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. In fact, I think all the steps that have been taken toward increasing transparency are important. That is not just what has happened in recent times. I'd like to review the legalities of political parties, which I believe have been a great step forward in the past, actually for social media time. They are enormously important, and I see in the international sense that people think they are exemplary, so I mention them as an example. That's exactly how important a transparency is. A senator points in. How, though, do these indications fit in with GRECO? It was just part of the work force to review the last assessment and the tips it made. For example, there is a discussion on the marriage of a minister and minor children, so there we are setting aside a step in the matters we feel will meet these same indications. If we go to Iceland, that's a whole new list of interests. I know that a lot of people may find this unusual in our small community, as I say, where you meet people in the swimming and food store and whatever. But it is so important that we look at ourselves as a perfect society and need a rule that fits such a society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u77	President. That's it, that's it, that's it. that the public may feel that public authorities are using it for special interests, including the public. in order to help with vote fishing so that they can remain in power or power. The first part of this cycle is naturally defined as political corruption that the people were not aware of before the collapse. When the collapse occurs and people begin to see how things work, honesty becomes the most important value, as it occurred at the 2009 National Conference. Why? Yes, because people were so disappointed, they thought that society was much more honest. That value is natural, but it gets stronger when people realize they don't have it. That's why I ask with GRECO; those conditions were not all met on the presiding committee. The unions were not included, which is only on a set international level, i.e. telaprevir. We also know this at the council that after becoming a member of the Parliament, it was a senator who took makovota into a marriage mate or group. So we know that this temptation problem exists, and I think it's very good for the prime minister to put these factors in when it comes to the executives, but I encourage her to speak to others in her class who have power in this council, to fix this, too. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u78	The president encourages you. Councilmen to respect the speedy deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u79	Mr. President. Perhaps I would like to stick to the role of the Executive Director here and just want to review what was discussed in GRECO's final assessment. It specifically discussed dealing with prices for interest. It specifically discussed the additional work that is being done here. It discussed gifts and benefits that are set out in these regulations. It discussed the selection after a job as a minister, or Ministry, or whatever it is. It also discussed the interest log and then how to follow up. So we feel that we are facing all these indications. As for the council, I reiterate that it is normal for me to believe that it is discussed on the scene of the Council's Presidency Committee. There is also the possibility that only other requirements are made for members of Congress than ministers. I think it's normal because ministers are at the same time a member of Congress and should have only other viewpoints.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u80	Mr. President. I'd like to celebrate this bill that's being passed right now, and thank you very much. Prime Minister for the presentation. A few questions arose. First, I want to say that it is perfectly natural for me to believe that the representatives of the European Commission and members of Congress are in rich contact with various stakeholders because it is part of our work to learn and learn much about being in contact with other people. I also think it's normal to meet such people at meetings, even talk to them on the phone, etc., just so they can be handled. But I welcome this transparency that we have here. I'd like to ask a few questions in the field of work after the official work that can be done in Article 5. I wondered why the decision is made that assistants do not submit to regulations of Article 5. As far as I can see, it's just that it's the highest handholders, and it's about that the assistants aren't involved. [[The president calls.]] I wondered why they're not involved because they get considerable information from their jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this comment. Here we are again trying to find some sort of middle ground, thinking that the assistant ministers are only obeying laws other than officials and ministers. These jobs are often very temporary if the story is considered, i.e. People often do these things suddenly, and they often end suddenly. In the case of officials and ministers, the age of work may be considerably shorter than it was for them. It was our conclusion, though not necessarily to suggest in this way, that, on the other hand, there are officials and ministers, who can certainly be considered to have considerable security and very high positions of authority and that there should be more demands on them than assistants. I think it's normal for me to wake up. This point is covered by a management board. These views were weighed down, but in the end, it was our conclusion that the helpers only follow laws other than those who truly are the chief executive executives of the enterprise, because that is not what we assist.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u82	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Ministers are eager to answer, and they need to disagree, since the work of an assistant is being carried out. Depends on characters and players each time. During the last terms, e.g. There were ministers in their office for eight months, something like that, or whether it reached ten, I don't know, and the same was with the assistants. The assistants often follow stewards all the time, sometimes not. Some people get a lot of information, others don't, etc. Another question that I wonder about is why has not gone the same way as in Norway, mentioned in this bill, about having a special surveillance committee on this. It is particularly said that it is complicated for prime minister to intend to monitor his communicators so that it will not be. Then you wonder, " Why don't we go all the way and try to keep it as professional as it is in Norway, where an independent committee is watching this registry instead of doing this at the scene of a party bitch? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u83	Mr. President. As I repeated earlier, I think it's important. Commission and monitoring committees special assistants. I would also like to reiterate that their activities are only different from those of the highest authority. They do not have the authority in that sense. They don't sign letters. They do not make decisions formally. [[Up front.]] Granted, it's a troubled medium, but we believe that the nature of the work is different from that of the leading executives of the European Commission. In terms of the surveillance committee, our conclusion was that we felt that it was more important when we were developing these legislation. We feel that we can easily help to provide the needed counseling and supervision. However, as I came to his talk, we also feel that it is important to evaluate the conduct of these laws in a relatively short period of time to form a view of whether we feel that it is normal to extend the range of values that I think are suitable for. In effect, this is a first step in changing work. If so, we would likely be referring to a greater role. But this was our conclusion, we thought it was simply easier to do it, and it paid for a change.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u84	V.E.G. President. I'm very happy with promoting transparency and interest registration. But I wondered, " Why are the restrictions on professional freedoms so great? ' I also wondered why the president of Iceland is suddenly not one of the senior executive executives of the European Commission, why he does not follow in there. It's a surprise. I also wondered about some practitional issues that may be possible in the treatment of the council. Here it is assumed that a minister can provide an exception. Who gives an exception to counsellors? I suppose Prime Minister will do that with ministers other than with prime minister if there's anything in him, arts, e.g., earning too much money, or getting access, etc.? I thought about it a lot. The key is the question: Is it necessary to limit our job freedom so much? And why isn't the President of Iceland inside this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u85	Mr. President. With regard to the leaveovers as far as the rest of the day is concerned. A senator asks this question to be expected that the prime minister will give annuity to other stewards. What about the highest? Prime Minister? Of course, he has a surrogacy that can be avoided if a prime minister finds himself at some point during the day to pursue an art form in his old age, perhaps even if this is not particularly likely. But as for the employment selection and the President of Iceland, I would like to say that this bill includes the highest executive executive of the European Commission and that it was decided that it was really the subject of this bill, so the President is not a part of it. It was only a decision made, perhaps also because we believe that it is important that the administration within the Council be significantly transparent. There is no rule that the president himself wishes that the same rules apply to his dealings.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u86	V.E.G. President. Of course, I feel that if there's anything else to say about transparency and interest registration and to promote it, it's also the highest executive of the European Commission, the President of Iceland. It's all for inspection. But what really bothers me about this bill is these prizes. That sounds really bad to me. In this regard, it is said that a person who speaks in private terms to the government was meant to be used for interest. Does a lawyer need to sign down every time he talks to governmental authority? Or what does that mean? I myself believe that these limitations are at the most. I've never been a fan of GRECO, believe that there are single technology systems that have no sense of democracy. Maybe we're on this development, we're following all this nonsense from Europe, but I think we should consider being very careful about this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u87	Mr. President. I don't think it's all bad things that come from Europe. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator would agree with me on that. I think that in itself, regardless of GRECO, these comments were made in their final assessment, this is a benefit to all of us. And why do I say that? I think that in those cases, all of us need to make a real assessment of when we are being influenced, which interests are involved. And because of what? A senator specifically mentions the price of interest, but it is important that I reiterate what was presented, that this does not apply to issues that end with a government decision, which is the number of thousands each year. It is about the communication between stakeholders and governments in order to make an impression on government projects, laws, or regulations. It is not that in all the thousands of cases that will end with a government decision, a price must be recorded. We don't think it's a burden in itself. Despite everything, it's not a very big country. It's not an enormous number of people, I imagine. I don't think this increased transparency is just good for us, I think it's good for the price of interest too.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u88	Mr. President. The answers did not work out for me, so I was forced to sign up in a talk on the good stuff and needs. Contrary to what. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson, I'm a fan of GRECO, and I think we need the outsider to stay as close to the straight as possible. Sadly, in modern times, such help is too often seen. But it's very important that we have defenses against the interests of the highest executive executive executives of the Iceland's Management Board, and it's very important that we have it not only on paper but also on work, and maybe that's what I'm worried about this case. There's a lot of things in there that's good. There's a lot of things over there that'll make up, but I still think we're taking the silk gloves on the companies that need them. That's what worries me most. I'm going back in this speech to come into it a little, because I have more time here, and object as much as I have. paritaprevir Pirata, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, has stood up for, at least in the written language, that there is something unnatural or inconsistency about the communication between the head of the executive council and the council. [[Up front.]] I am absolutely aware that it is very important to have meetings with those dealing with the various non-consuming projects because at committee meetings there is more than simply a short period of time to dig into matters. In order to learn, it is important to have a field outside the committee field. Learning about all the issues we're dealing with here is a major part of our work. I just allow myself to trust members of Congress and to trust their judgment when interests are so cruel that they are being dealt with in vain. You must have confidence in elected representatives in your ability to appreciate it. This kind of economic security also takes place in the committees. Then the discussion is very important, but I thought it was very important to come by the introduction of elected executives and executives of the executives in contact and to have dealings with stakeholders. It's very important. I'm making comments at 5. The bill that speaks of employment selection after the completion of public employment It refers to this rotation plant, that when the highest executive and vice presidents of the Management Board fail, they are forbidden to use information that they had access to in the power of their profession for their public or for an abnormal benefit to others. It's 2 mg. the same law, by permission of the President: The highest executives in the European Union are not allowed to become stakeholders, dr. 3 mg 1st par. and 4. .., for six months after the completion of their work for the National Board of Directors. There the authors of the bill make a conscious decision to exclude assistant ministers. I think it's very unnatural because it's not about the characteristics of their work, that they're not long in their jobs, that they're not government officials, or not executives. This is about the knowledge that the Minister's assistants have. Whether they work for a week or in an ideal period or many terms does not make any difference. It may be such an awareness that it is highly abnormal - but very desirable for the external person the day after the assistant leaves work or even while he is still on the job trying to include the requested assistant and get the person to work with other partners. There will be a temptation, to offer simply an assistant minister of considerable money to come to work because of the knowledge of the local assistant. There needs to be some chance of making this up. Of course, it's only six months. That is why I would think that an assistant's offer is not such that he cannot have it. Yes, it will be discussed at the board and all of that, but I just had to come up here to mention this because there are cases where assistants have a lot of juicy information about various infrastructures that can benefit companies or other nationalities. How important it is that we are clear and do not exclude these individuals! I can't figure it out. I thought there was some reason. Prime Minister for not taking them adequately. Then all I want to do is wind up in 6. the bill involved in counselling and monitoring. It shows that his minister general counseling and monitoring on interest registration and gifts, interest prices, extra work and employment after the job is completed. Two. is shown by permission of the President: The secretary may take his own initiative into account an event in which the chief executive authority, other than the secretary, as well as the assistant minister, is suspected. It's other than the Minister's. That's where the Ministers are completely separated from this. I can't figure it out, if by the sentence it refers to the highest executive authority, as well as assistants, or whether it's the highest executives of the executives, non- secretarys and assistants. I think there must be some sort of research on counseling and follow-up. But because it's totally out of control, because it's not a multi-organized administration, and there's no Minister in charge of other ministers, and we have a law on ministers responsible for them, the question is that the prime minister can't keep an eye on other stewards. I can't figure out why we don't feel the need to have an independent committee assigned to this check as in Norway. I think that we should be really worried about that, especially in the light of the incidents that have taken place in Iceland's management ship in the past few months where there is a doubt about a suitable minister. Of course, government and fellow ministers would be surrounding a prime minister, even individuals to whom you would have reacted differently, if they were not with that government minister. It seems that when people are put into the position to try to keep a government together, they blind other reasonable feelings, reason, and other arguments. [[Up front.]] I think Prime Minister, who in this bill is taking this surveillance and counseling, may be the least of the government's advisers to monitor other advisers for the position of having to keep the government together. That is why I will suggest to the representatives of the United States, who is on the board of administration and monitoring committee that the decision to proceed properly is to be made by the Norwegians. Since 2015 the law has been in effect, and according to them, it is a special committee that supervises all of this, with registration, with new political, government, government officials, executive representatives, etc. I think, especially in the small part of Iceland, that the project given by the prime minister is not really going to have complete trust, unfortunately. It has nothing to do with the person who now sits on the throne of the prime minister. Rather, it is the way this has appeared to us through the times, the political parties, and the willingness to hold a government together blinds a vision at that time. Then there is what to record, especially in the light of relatively new things that have come to us. When do you keep a meeting, and when do you not keep a meeting? Well, you don't think there's a meeting over the meatcoat in the Mela shop. But if you go to a dear friend's office on Saturday to discuss various matters, are you going to have a meeting? When you call a minister to a friend to talk about a friend's job, are you calling a government official or a friend? Could you ever be calling someone else as a friend when just discussing your friend's job and career? Is that not the case, then, that this is a registration? It may be different if you are asking about family matters, how children and grandchildren are feeling, or how you are preparing for bar mitzvahs, for example. I think that once we're in position to be the executive director of even a barbargo brother or sister about something that claims to be a function of the individual or financial commitments or the benefits of the individual, there is always to be a registrational event. Because it's a gray area in our time, I think it's going to be the highest. Prime Minister, prime minister at any time, it is very difficult to maintain such registrations and to monitor as agreed on. I'm happy for this bill, but I think there's a few adjustments to it. The management board and the monitoring committee prior to approval.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u89	President. I just want to give it a second. paritaprevir Helgadóttir Vólva Helgadóðan has the opportunity to correct himself in the matter. paritaprevir The son of Leví, Gunnarsson. This is shown in his Facebook entry on this meeting that, as he says, he felt uncomfortable going to him with the lobsters. This was shown in the media, including in a DV news report on that matter. He says, with President's permission: I repeat, there is no ◯int, since members of the council meet and talk to people. However, there may be some communication with lesbians who are supposed to be registered and enlightened. That's what he was asking for, that's what wasn't done, and it made him uncomfortable. That is what the law says should be done, at any rate when it comes to the executive and natural that it applies to members of Congress, especially where this meeting, not recorded and not recorded, was being discussed as part of a matter to be on the way into the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u90	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. I agree that it is right to record such a thing, and I think there should be a possible part of what we're writing here, it's just an open, some kind of journal at the council. But I don't know any better than it's been said in a case. paritaprevir In one of the lightsmen, the Björn of Leví Gunnarsson's sons said that this was also a matter of being outside the Assembly Hall and that there had been an offer of water and a cuttle at this meeting. It was in such a situation that it was made suspicious, even though I have received that information later -- now the United States's representative was not at this meeting, but was identified somewhere - that the partner who was at the meeting did not agree, did not speak in one voice. It was a very wide group that was there for writing and plotting on some matter of Congress. It wasn't like it was one of the stakeholders. But I think it's exemplary for senators to record all their meetings and record what they do. It is entirely exemplary to do so, and I think it would be good to take it on the presiding committee to try to create some form of form of how we can do it so that it is only on the Subcommittee of Congress on the front page. I'd like to celebrate it, and maybe we should propose it to the Presidency Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u91	Mr. President. I want to thank them. Councilmen who have spoken up and I appreciate the situation, so it's rather positive than negative about this bill that I celebrate. I believe it is very important that the Council agree to set a clear framework for the work of the highest executive executive authority. In view of what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir, she has a correct understanding of 6. that assistants hear what is said there. It is to the highest executives and, on the other hand, to the assistants. They're under it, that's the correct understanding. As far as the Ministers were concerned, I reviewed them in a talk. We do not have a multi-organized administration in Iceland, and each minister is really the highest executive of its executive authority. On the other hand, I'd like to draw the members of Congress to include... As a result of a discussion by the heads of the political parties in the field of the Constitution work, it has been decided to initiate a review of the laws on responsibilities and the laws of national justice. I hope that these laws can be discussed at the next assembly, where there may be a chance to discuss a little more about what this term means, the Minister's Qualification. I think it's important. These laws have reached their years, and we have had considerable discussions about them in the field of the chiefs. It is interesting, too, to see the results of a November debate, where after a considerable discussion with experts, those who were there were randomized actually had a little thought about these matters, which I found very interesting. When we look at the countries around us, there are very clear laws on the matter of being a minister of responsibility and some kind of penalties for doing so. Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion in particular. I reiterate that I think this is a big step in progress, and I don't think that's the final step in it. This is one long - distance step in how we can better secure the transparency and trust around the executives of the Commission. I reiterate what I mentioned earlier about the fact that the Ministry of Presidency can easily take on this role while no more of the law than is expected in this bill. If the law is reviewed within some years in order to expand its values, it is clear that there will be considerable more work to keep track of those laws, and it will require other measures. Mr. President. I hope that the case will have a careful discussion on its part. ...and hope that we will complete its payment at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u92	A respectable president. Here's another step that we can take now beautifully in this room, one of the little steps I think are positive and only forward. I recommend here for a bill to correct the changing of Fishing Room law, No. 36/1992, with subsequent changes, through the breakdown of a so - called coastal fishing fee. With me on the bill, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. 1st par. The bill reads: ◯2. mg Section 6. The law will pass away. 2.g. (b) What does the Bible say about Jehovah's Witnesses on January 1, 2020? As a matter of fact, as we see in our hand that January 1, 2020, this is already in place, one of the times where the legislatator is definitely allowed, where it is involuntary and demolition on the fixed fees, should be decomposed again. On the contrary, it is against the legal rights of the people, with the lawgiver again trying to impair the rights of the citizens. Here we see examples of the opposite. I'm gonna go back to the paper with the bill and tell you something about all of this. In the spring of 2010, one year after shore fishing began in the picture we know today, a new arrangement was set for so - called coastal fishing fees in the fishing budget, No. 33/2000. It stated that a license for coastal fishing, as well as a general license payment, should be paid $50,000. for every beach fishing permit published by the government. The price should be collected in accordance with the laws of a fish clinic. So the map of a beach fishing fee should be set aside where a catch obtained from coastal fishing would be in the country. Since then, the so - called coastal fishing cost has remained unchanged. I've offered a number of queries to the ocean dignitary and agricultural minister, and in most cases I've received a clear answer. I have found answers to all of them, but more often than not, they have been very good. I parked, for example. a petition to the marine economist and agricultural ministers of the last legislation, 149th legislation, on the cost of coastal fishing, 707th suit. Even there was a number of them. asked about the amount of so-called coastal fishing from the start of 2010 to the final holdings of 2018, listed in industry and ports, and calculated in all cases to modern values. The answer indicates that this price totaled over the whole country over the course of the year, some 342 billion. K. We're talking about eight years. We see that this is not such a frightening situation that it needs only to be placed on beach fishermen. It is kind of strange that they are so grossly discriminated against in the absolute sense. I don't really get it, and I think it must've been forgotten since 2010. At the time the price was set, it was being said that with the arrival of this coastal submarine fleet, the pressures of rejection and landing, and the need to recruit more staff, and this was something that was supposed to be temporary while this system was being properly established. It must have been a long time ago, eight or nine years later, but still hangs in this particular beach catch. If this were calculated in April and May 2019, it would average 38 million. K. every year. I think that based on not segregation of our professions and taping them out of parentheses, we are in a position to correct this injustice. At present, it was a total of 28.6 billion. K. for coastal fishing in 2018, and in recent years there has been a decline in coastal fishing boats. I'm not going to go out on reasons of it, that would be the subject of a well - thought - out talk over an hour or so. During the recently coastal fishing business of 2019, a total of 611 boats were fishing based on information on Fishing Room 28 August 2019. The price of these boats has been a total of 31,05 million. K. The above answer I referred to, from a marine dignitary and agricultural minister, to my inquiry on coastal fishing costs, says that this fishing totals a total of 763 million. K. In the government budget, the current price of fishing began in 2009. In response to my other request for coastal fishing in 2018, it is noted that the total abundance of coastal fishing levels in 2018 studied some 2.2 billion. K. Of these, 2.1 billion were cod, with 9,075 tons of cod. Fishing for coastal fishing was never higher in one season than 2018, a total of 170 million. K. The recently coastal fishing business of 2019 returned 9,162 tons of cod. Reports in the media show that cod was about one third higher than the 2018 Coastal Fishing Army. In this way, it can be estimated that nearly 3 billion can be studied by the coastal resources of cod 2019. In response to the inquiry, it is also stated on the day that 90.4% of all the coastal fishing resources were sold on the markets in this country. This conflicts with the claims heard by opposers from shore fishing that some significant part of the catch is being placed in a container for sale and processing in the United Kingdom. Almost all the coast fishing is going to work here in the country. The total number of countries in the 2018 coast fishing area was 14,984; the total number of fish was 548 boats. During the past summer, the number of countries was 15,753, and a 621 boat was fishing, as noted earlier. Coastal fishing is a small business, with only income from coastal fishing for four months a year. True, these are 48 days of dosing in the year. To think, during that period, they can only make the boats out for 12 days each month. However, coastal fishing in Iceland has become a source of stability, and it has returned to its population, as the above figures indicate. Both experience and all numbers show that the seafronts of man's life all around the country would be like sight if these conditions were not available. The beach - fishing fee is a specific tax laid on one category in excess of others. I repeat, this beach fishing fee is imposed on one model group over others. There are no similar fees on ships who do not hunt on the beach. This involves inconsistencies, in view of the fact that Coastal fishing boats's owners pay legal ports, such as everyone else. This bill suggests that coastal fishing fees in the Fishing Room laws will simply be canceled. No further comment is needed. It's really a miracle, I'd say it's just a question of whether it's moderate. There are a number of rules that you see in your life to be double - handed. It reminds me of one thing, even though there's no more coastal fishing. It's me and him who's carrying the decrease, a dollar or a penny, now 65 bucks, and I think he's alone in the whole world. Although it's a completely different matter, it makes you feel like you're taking these beach fishing boats out of parentheses, despite paying all else to access the resource, paying other ports, paying off their weight, and paying all services. You don't realize how this particular price, 50,000 bucks. Coastal fishing cost every year, got stuck in there. In view of the two of us, I'm in Floki the people, discussing our beach fishing boats, and this justice issue, I feel that it would be worth the attention of the subject how interested we are in discussing our beach fishing boats, our beach fishing industry, and how we, the lawgiver, are going to correct this injustice. It's me and the deputy council member of the whole group, Jónína Björk Óskarsdóttir, who's out here in the discussion. But finally: I'm here referring to this case. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u93	The bill goes to the 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u94	A respectable president. One can first be grateful for his president when he points matters in the right direction. I was in the case here at the time, sending it to a financial and business committee, but, of course, it goes to why. Business committee. That brings me to another bill, which is also a matter of righteousness, a little step in the way of righteousness. It is different, the least of our brothers and sisters who have chosen to live abroad but still have the right to obtain money from our social security fund. With me on this bill that leads to a change in the social security law, No. 100/2007, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. The bill includes changes in costs for the implementation of combustions. I'm going to go over it briefly, let's not make this long, but it says, - Uh-huh. - At 2nd. 53. g. The law adds to the new lawsuits, as follows: A insurance agency shall pay all the cost of the implementation of the payment. 2.g. This law already comes into effect.◯ This bill was submitted by a bill in 149th legislature. So I'm speaking for the second time, it didn't get paid, to my surprise. Like you're trying to figure out these matters that you bring pride in here, it's boring that those who come in to vote on them, drop them, or don't interfere with them, don't stay here, and are not interested in watching. More and more frequently, pensioners move abroad. It's just a fact, I guess it doesn't have to wonder why it is. That's because they have such poverty at home, and they have so weak that they simply cannot support themselves here. As we saw in the media the other day, Iceland is considered one of the most expensive countries in the world. More and more frequently, then, pensioners move abroad, and in that case they are often paid from a insurance agency into foreign bank accounts. Such money transfers from abroad are associated with a considerably greater cost of the case as compared to traditional international transfers. Thus, those living abroad with the cost of payment will be reduced to their rights on the basis of their home estate. Once again, we are segregating Icelanders because of their population. The bill suggests that the cost of government rights paid by an insurance agency is paid to support discrimination on the basis of localisation. In addition, the insurance agency, as a bigger customer, is in a better position to negotiate with business banks for lower costs of such transfers. They're about 3,000 k. Each time. No matter how high they are, they pay 3,000 bucks. the month before such transfer. However, if he were here, that wouldn't be the case. What I'm simply pointing out is that a insurance agency would be in the palm of a much better agreement with its own business bank and would greatly reduce these payments. That's 3,000 k. each month for each pensioner, they are simply to be put at the same level as the ones paid from social security and living here at home. We are talking about Icelandic citizens, many of whom have simply fled the situation that we have created them here and cannot support themselves on the offer. Even if someone doesn't think so, it's 36,000. every year. It takes less time for someone who hardly has a knife or a spoon.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u95	A respectable president. Well, I've come to the highest platform of the country. All three things are already, at least today. I'm here measuring for a synopsis of the delinquency of the so-called allowance system. At the council arrangement, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson is with me. The General concluded to hide a social and child care minister to provide a bill for changing the law on the subject of the elderly as a guarantee of delinquency of a so-called allowance system and that a pensioner who takes a pension to a nursing facility maintains an undelivered pension and benefits from the state's insurance agency. The objective of the bill must be that the elderly receive legal and judicial donations. According to one report, the Synod arrangement was submitted to a 149th legislature, an 835th case, and is now submitted unchanged. For many years the older citizen's national relationship has promoted a change in the law on the affairs of the elderly, No. 125/1999, so that older citizens maintain their own self - control and financial independence regardless of their home state. The Act V will discuss the cost of aging. It also discusses the involvement of residents in residence homes on expenses. When a person moves into a nursing home, the right of the person to a pension is lost. The person may have the right to an allowance, or a allowance, as we call the cash, which in 2019 is up to a maximum of 74,447 k., over 18,000 bucks. every week. This suggests that the government will be assigned to provide a bill that guarantees the autonomy and financial resources of elderly persons when they enter a nursing home and that the payment of residents in nursing homes will be changed so that residents will keep their pensions and pay directly for rents, food, and other costs of household care. However, the overall rules for health care provided in the homes will remain unchanged. It will be expected that residents may be entitled to improve housing and that the cost of living or nursing homes will be income - related and will fall for those with very low incomes. In 1989, Sigurður Guðmundsson, director of Halldór, granted permission from the Ministry of Health and Security to change parts of Daltown, the home of the elderly in Dalíkíkík, to protect a service apartment. Halldór wrote a report to the Ministry of Health and the head of Dalltown in October 1990, several months after the test project was completed. The experiment was designed to allow the elderly to maintain financial independence. Four men and four women participated in the experiment, and the results were that participants in the experiment showed increased activity, increased social life, and more traveled into town. This experiment will likely lead to negative practices and premature deterioration of individuals. A panel for the removal of the pocket money system was appointed in May 2016 by the current social and housing minister, Eygló Harðardóttir, but he has not yet returned his results. In 2018, the response to the Minister of Social Equal Opportunities in response to the results of the group, it was found that the work group was still in the preparatory phase. Yes, it certainly takes time, a respectable president, to put their arms around our older citizens so that they can now live here with dignity. Several control groups and other committees should be appointed to allow human rights to be respected when it comes to older citizens. True, it is not the only group in the community, but it should take its time. It is now 2020, a dignified president. It will be worth the effort to see if anything counts, even though we try to call for positive or negative effects on the individual's ability to get this. Would anyone doubt that having such independence and financial resources taken into consideration by this allowance system would be ignominious? It's not just that, it's another brick in taking away its aged dignity. That's my opinion. The pocket money system has been under way for many years without any of the ideas being handled. In 1990 a comparable arrangement in Denmark was changed. Residents who lived in institutions kept their money but paid for it. That is exactly what we always want to do. We want to pay ourselves. Hence, the elderly, whether in the local area or in the districts we want to give them the nature of the situation if they need it, are allowed to maintain their independence and financial resources. I don't quite understand why it isn't, and who's thought of it? I don't have it here, or I would have named the person. Who would think of taking away their money and independence from the elderly? It's a ide that I don't believe, so I'm sure it is. I'm going to say again that it didn't necessarily mean that when the Danes changed it, they had more money between their hands. We do not make money by allowing it to be done by ourselves or by having someone else do the payment for us. It's simply that the money we have the right to get into our account and get paid every month or whatever it is our money and that it's us who get to pay it. Even if we had to pay every cent we want to buy, and we need to pay for it, we're the people who pay it, not the middlemen. We do not want our rights removed when we cross this barrier to nurture us. So, with this interpretation proposal, it is simply directed to the social and child - care minister to revise the pocket money system immediately, not next year, not after two years, not after ten years, not put the matter into a new committee, not another control group - but now. We must be able to win something right now. That's what we're elected to do, isn't it? In this way, we want older ones to keep self - control within institutions as much as possible, in the least way possible, changing people's condition when they need a changed household planning. I'm proud of all 59 not here, 58, one's really listening to us, at least to examine this in view of the importance of the society we're fighting for, for our grandparents, for our dad and moms, and for those who need to take advantage of the agricultural resources we're supposed to give them. As the people around us know, we have not done too well in that regard, and I am not going to talk about the flow problem so-called, one of the most amazing and disgusting words I know. With all due respect, Mr President, I can only say that I don't call it a flow problem when our old citizens are set up against the wall and they sit and lie in the halls of the National Hospital ready to go home, but for them, there is no room for farming. It is, in fact, the most expensive resource available, not just here, but likely even if more people are looking for it. This is one of the things we do, we tend to pay many times more for things than we have to do. We set our priorities, so at times I feel that we just take them and throw them out of the window at the same time, and we are not ready to hand them into our slightest brothers and sisters'arms. This council mishap I'm putting in my arms at the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs is about our adult people, all of whom have said, each of us political parties - I have not seen or heard in one elected representative who does not say that they are entirely in his heart that older people and adults are allowed to live here with dignity, that the old age should be carefree. We are to prepare them for the privilege of living with dignity. Better if it's enough, more dignified president. This interpretation proposal is a small step in the right direction. It won't cost the state funds for a single dollar. It only alters the setting of present conditions that have stripped the elderly in this hospice of independence and money custody. What we are talking about is giving them their independence, their self - sufficiency, and their financial resources and allowing them to pay for their services.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u96	A respectable president. There's a lot of progress here on the road, on the issue of justice, and on human rights. Most of us know what is appropriate here. Indeed, people want to live as far away as they can in their home and take care of themselves, and when they change to be treated with respect and that they enjoy all their rights, self - control, and financial resources. Today, it is shocking that we should live in an arrangement where pensioners can reduce the amount of money they have earned through their lives by having to go to an institution or a nursing home in order to care for it. Many people, however, do not have much pension, much less experience the failings that many also experience. Then there is the need to be treated in this way in a limited amount of day - to - day money as if it were teenagers. So I agree with the purpose of the proposal that the elderly will enjoy legal and judicial rights. I hope that it will be handled well by the council, and so I will be successful because it is only natural and reasonable to me. It is important to correct and ensure everyone's human rights in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u97	President. I'll move here in a row of three prime Black Stars from Björn Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, who is behind all of Porta's members at the same time. The first issue has to do with the change in social security law and is to decommission a pension because of failure. This bill suggests that misdeeds that are judged by individuals do not result in a decrease in their pensions under the law. The bill was submitted to a 149th legislature and is reassigned. The objective of the bill is to support the desperate and sensibilities of sensibilities by preventing a decrease in pension because of the failures they are sentenced to the trauma they face. The occurrences that can result in an individual's being reimbursed are unpredictable. The cost, therefore, is not really an cost to the state. Rather, the cost is in the form of not a pension reimbursement because of a convicted misimbursement. So, then, the cost would not have been greater than that would have been wronged. What this means is that we are promoting the rights of a pensioner without costing a government fund. It's a simple change. The bill suggests that this change will be on January 1, 2020, which is already natural, but the case was presented in the fall. It could be quite possible to finish before spring, before the council goes on vacation, all it takes is the will to do. This doesn't cost the state's money, but it's sponsoring the rights of a pensioner. Let's see what happens. [[Up front.]] I suggest the case goes along - what does the President say? Is it a welfare committee rather than an economic and business committee? To the welfare committee. I believe that this will only get on the schedule, and then we'll just get a view, if the government wants to say that this will cost something. This costs nothing, and why is it not possible to resolve the matter at this council?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u98	President. As I mentioned earlier, there is a why. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, the first member of the matter, along with the Congress of Pirata, is sick at home, so that I present his case so that they can be taken to committees, which can be completed before the council leaves on vacation. This case is legal, and it's very simple. Today, if you live abroad, you always have to renew your vote. This case means that it only has to be done once. It reduces writing, reduces the cost of government funds, and strengthens and promotes the election rights of the people of the country who live abroad for some time. The report states: The bill suggests that the citizens of Iceland who live abroad will be enrolled if they submit an adequate vote application. By means of this arrangement, the work that has now been completed by an Icelandic citizen who has had a legal home in this country must be specifically applied to maintain its rights at the end of eight years or more from the removal of the country's citizen, but the decision that someone should thus be adopted for four years. It suggests that instead, an Icelandic citizen who has moved abroad needs only to apply to maintain his or her legal rights once. It is then suggested that application application procedures for re-selection applications become electronically simplified and shortenes the procedure, making it safer. Transporters believe that if the bill is approved, it will save voters and Iceland's national records several paperwork and simple sieges around a budget. I suggest that the case be referred to the management and monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for this bill, so he wholeheartedly agrees. Today, Icelandic citizens may live abroad for even 50, 60, 70 years, and there is a special committee that is working to change exactly this organization. I know it's the death of that committee that a person doesn't have to apply for 16 years, something like that. It's not finished yet, but I wanted to ask the senator if this bill involves an Icelandic citizen who just has to never want to vote, whether he moves out of here five years and lives abroad for the next 90 years or whatever it is. I may think it's a good idea. That's what I'm thinking.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u100	As I understand the bill according to the report, a man will apply for it once, but you can, but you have the right to do it over and over again. Either you see it or you don't, but you always have the right to renew it, whether you're five or what. This is the place, this actually means that if you're going to use the voting rights, you don't have to apply for it over and over, which is just a growing management. A man will be applying for it once, and then he will have the right. Really, it doesn't change anything about it. A senator in Sæland Goad is referring to a person's being able to get back into a vote, even though he hasn't lived here for a very long time. But this just means less management. There are different arrangements for a person's duty or rights to choose. In Iceland, you have the right to vote, but you're not required to. In the United States, the arrangement is relatively discouraging, you have to register to vote there, register ahead of time if you intend to vote. And if you check in, you're also on the list of those who might be called on a jury. If you get caught sitting in a penitentiary, we know that little people can't afford it, they lose their job, and they ride their whole lives. Here you have an arrangement that actually types those who have a socially worse position to register and participate in elections. That's how America, Iceland, is at intervals like this, then there's a lot of South America, so you have to vote. If you don't choose, you're fine, even if you live abroad. This is a question of how humans approach these rights or responsibilities in order to take part in politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Well, that's just the way it is, that's good. That was a good answer. I don't know if we're supposed to go all the way south and cut the civilians off to vote. This could make it possible for our citizens to live abroad to know that they can share in choosing rulers here and being allowed to choose regularly without having much to do with it at that time, they may also be more attentive to what is going on at home, a source of encouragement. It's just a very good case that I can guarantee you why. A senator's joy will be felt by the gathering of the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u102	President. There's just a very short answer to that: Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-29-54.u103	President. This is a third matter of course. paritaprevir He's the Leví of Gunnarsson, who I move here today for him because he's at home sick. This bill relates to the city's rights to access public information, but the public has to pay for access. This is an old and out - of - date arrangement, which really means that your access to public information is dependent on the economy. As shown in the report, the bill was in line with this in terms of increasing access to a corporate file approved at the General Assembly of 146, and became the law of No. 64/2017. The law of making it possible for the public to have access to an enterprise file without charge. This is a suggestion that data related to those contained in an enterprise file will be produced in the same way. The report also says that using the bill it suggests that annual accounts and shareholder files will be more accessible to the public. It is suggested that there should be no charge for electronic reporting in these files and that the same information will be available there and if you pay for a copy of the data from the file. This information cannot be considered accessible to the public in relation to existing legislation where it needs to be paid. This has to do with the public information rights that we see important. It is usually put into three categories, the first generation of information rights that you have the right to ask for official information. This may reject the request, but you have the right to ask for and receive the information, but the government does not reveal the information that exists, so you do not necessarily know whether the data or the information exists. Happily, we have another generation of information rights in which we are also told what information is in the government so that you can ask for those present, but the request can be rejected. You always have to ask for them, and then you can refuse the request. A third generation of information rights found in the bill of the Government Council to a new constitution and is one of the reasons that Piratars are fond of it, means that all government - controlled information should be available to the public without delay. There must be no barrier to the benefit of the public. They are available and can be looked up. It's not a big deal. One person has already set up a database, Jósef, Jón Bjarnason, whom he has already offered to Iceland's institutions to buy access and receive this database on a budget where you can connect, enter a social security number, and see them in which companies and associates of the relevant partner have had and other connections. This is to make available the existing stake relationship. One man in his sad state can install a database like this. It's not a problem, it's very possible. The data are available, all you have to do is put a little effort into it. So far it's been an obstacle to agencies paying for this, but it just needs to be done. The Council showed the will of the 146th Parliament when information was provided free of charge, as I mentioned earlier. This is just the next step in the direction, in the right direction, and I don't believe any other than to take this step too. [[Take it in the right direction.]] This is not a big step but a step in the right direction that can be completed before the council leaves on vacation.
