ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u1	I'll tell you what. General members and members of the General Assembly welcome back to work after a brief break in Easter. I hope that, like the people in general, we have been able to enjoy the Passover, although there is a special situation and despite the absence of traditional travel or association with extended families and friends. On behalf of the General, I present to the Americans the best greeting, encouraging continued solidarity of the actions that are having to produce very visible results in the battle of the disaster, and I believe that I speak for our entire council members when I say that we will do what we can to bring this country through with the least possible damage. We look ahead to the road with determination and hope. In the near future, the General's priorities will continue to be discussed and the issues related to the social and economic consequences of the Korean epidemic. Meetings will be conducted in accordance with the current situation. The prime committee made it at their meeting earlier today as follows: The prime committee refers to its decision from March 19 onward. ... thatServicePresidentialServicePresidents. The current operation by the competent authorities has now been extended to May 4th. Therefore, the suspension of the work programme is extended to that time. It is proposed that a re-evaluated work programme for the 150th legislature will replace the time when new government rules have been established. In May 4 events related to response to the Covid-19 pandemic will continue to occur first. It is expected that meeting days will be up to a maximum of two weeks during this time, the presence of members of the council and staff will be kept low according to the meeting ban and the two - meter local rule. All committee meetings at this time are conducted through telecommunications systems, and there will be no more than two meetings at the same time. The Committee will arrange for the switch between committees in line with their request for a meeting period as the circumstances allow. A case related to the epidemic is a priority. Then there will be the guidance for meeting meetings and the use of telecommunications in meetings of fixed committees for the Festival of Easter, which was sent to the presidents of the Regular Committees, etc. March 20, due to May 4th The government has sent a revised Constitution to the General Assembly, where a substantial amount of proposed matters are canceled in the light of circumstances and has been published on the council website. The revised Constitution, along with the other things that the unusual and demanding circumstances bring into our hands, puts the material into the necessary conversation between the leading members of the classes in the future. It seems clear that meetings will have to last longer in the spring into the summer than previously planned. It is hoped that we will maintain a good solid solid solidarity over the rich object that the Council must deal with the situation, rebuild the world, and restore society to a normal state. There is no doubt that the people of the United States are expected to do so in this most serious situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u2	That's when a president has received a letter from the 7th. Smoke. n., Simon Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson, whose testimony is of Congress from this day forward, April 14, 2020. The letter is as follows: ▪ In this letter, I give a witness on the subject of Congress on April 14th. Having hired myself to serve in another field, I work there later in this month. I am grateful for the confidence I have been shown in the political scene. About four years. I've been a elected senator twice, and it's a great honor to have been allowed to sit in the Allied Parliament during that time. While conflict is often a feature of the Council's work in public coverage, at this crucial point, I am concerned with the valuable experience that I have gained and that of interacting with parties and political opponents alike. I miss all the good people I've been working with in the Parliament in recent years, both members of the council, and as much as the talented staff that works for the General Assembly. I wish them all success in their important work for land and nation. The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson. 7. Reykjavík Precinct North,◯ For this reason, of course, I'd like to thank Þorsteinn Viglundsson for his work at the General Assembly in the past few years, and I wish him on behalf of us all the success of his work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u3	At the Synod of Þorsteinn's son Víglundsson, the General Assembly of the 1st President of the Rape in the Smoke. N., Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir. Her letter has already been investigated and agreed, but it has not taken place before in the Council and must therefore sign the commitment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u4	Þorbjörg are welcome to Sigríður at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u5	As per 1 mgr, the president wants to inform us that he has received a word from a council of Reunion on the change of committees. Section 16. Congress, so that Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir takes up residence as the head of a General and Education Committee instead of Jón Steindór Valdimarsson and Jón Steindór Valmursson as a replacement of the same committee. Also, Jón Valdimarsson is taking up his seat as the head of the Economic and Business Committee, and Hanna Katrín Fridrik's Friðriksson is taking up his seat as his deputy on the same committee. Then Valdimarsson Steindordsson takes up an audience with the Board of Shepherds and Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir takes place with an audience on the Board of Directors and Control. The Þorbjörg of Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunnaldóttir takes the seat of a deputy member of the Environment and Transport Committee and of the Council Committees EFTA and EEA. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u6	Letters from the following advisers have been requested at regular intervals to provide written answers to queries. From the Minister of Justice: On a threshing floor. 1103 on the basis of a student's access to an Internet, and on a deck. 1104, on the parole of prisoners, both from Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. From secretary of state and development, to be expected. 710, on the release of international agreements, and on deck. 584, on a submarine search, both of Andrés Ingi Jónsson; on a deck. 788, of the committee, work and management groups, of the Lord Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson; of the threshing floor. 1164, on contracts of public financial matters, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson; on deck. 1142 on a ground plan of action, from Friðbjörg Fjoura, the daughter of Elíasdóttir; on the icicle. 1052, on the influence of foreign countries, on election results, from Hrafn Gunnarsson; on deck. 124, the Ministry's comments on legal opinions, and on trinkets. 113, on the commitment of the Icelandic government to properly introduced EU types, the European Court of Justice, both from Ólafur Ísleifsson. From the Department of Social Affairs and Children's Ministers: 1074, of those who didn't live in houses, registered in real estate, from the Birks Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir; on deck. 988, about the rules for greenhouses in building, from the Halla of the Signý's Kristjánsdóttir, to the threshing floor. 944, of the buyers of the highest stocks of the apartment loans, of Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson; of the threshing floor. 1159, on contracts of government funds, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and on a threshing floor. 1,136, of the Agricultural Programme, from Friðbjörg Fjordur, the daughter of Elíasdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u7	At a council meeting on March 12th. were temporarily given variations from the council in order to deviate from the 1st. 17th par. the obligation of members of the Committee to attend a meeting and also from the 22nd chapter. of the Summit's Summit. Depending on the nature of the situation, it was ousted from the terms of Congress that members of the committee must be at the meeting to form a decision - making committee meeting. The president suggested that the variation be new as necessary until the Council interrupted its meetings at Passover. The president now suggests that these variations from the council will be extended to May 4th. When there is hope, and in fact already, there is hope that there shall be some relief for the feast. In view of today's conflicting circumstances, the president suggests that these variants will be approved without a vote at 1 mg. 80. g. Congress. The variants will be viewed without vote if they do not speak out. No one acts against it and is accepted by variations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u8	Mr. President. Speaking of the effect of Covid-19 is a vastly wide range of tasks. I think it's fine at this point to remember that it is more than 100 days since the World Health Organization was informed about this coming virus epidemic that we all know now that Covid-19 is 46 days since the first virus was diagnosed in Iceland. In no longer time, almost everything has changed completely. Similarly, the economic effects are immense, the pressures on our health, and especially on our daily lives, our community, and our relationships. We see action that we've never seen before. Last night, the World Bank agreed to cancel the debt of 25 poor countries to relieve them because of the epidemic, and this is done to give these countries space to make use of their resources in support of the health system and other needs in the fight against the virus. The secretary - general of the United Nations, António Guterres, has sent the nations of the world a call for warring armies to drop their weapons so that the nations can cope with the virus. In Iceland, however, the number of infected people today seems to have decreased several consecutive days, and we presented the steps ahead of minimizing the conditions of the meeting ban. I feel that it is important to say here that these steps will not be taken until May 4. We still have three weeks of the limits in force. I can feel it from many places around me that many people are getting tired of being limited, but this is a project that we have to complete together. The results will be of great importance to all of us. We must not sacrifice the results we already have done, sacrifice people's health, and that is why it matters that we stick together for the next three weeks to complete these limitations, and then they will be relieved of any steps that will be taken. It is also important not to go too fast in those steps. I said earlier at a press conference, because I like to walk on the mountains, that everyone has experienced standing in front of the mountain and just having the last steps to go, and then the temptation can be very much to sit down, take a lunch, and say, " Isn't this just good? Everyone also knows the temptation if they have been able to get to the top of the mountain, but then you can skim and wind up on your nose. It's not good for anyone. We must be careful when we take these steps to take the time to evaluate the situation. As noted in the case of an aseptic surgeon, the goal is to achieve the spread to zero. That does not mean that one infection cannot surface, but that is the goal we are making. Why do we pursue that goal? Yes, so that we can get out of these limitations together. I know there are many of us in here, like all the people of the country, who have become elderly, even in nursing homes, and have met few in the past few weeks. It is important that our older ones also have limitations so that they can get out with people and meet their relatives and friends. It was noted in the case of the Minister of Justice earlier at the press conference that a request had been received to extend restrictions on the Schengen outer border for about 30 days. I expect Iceland to have that wish, as well as the fact that we still don't realize when national boundaries will open. In this uncertainty we have been presenting and will present measures to support employment and community in Iceland. I'm not staying long with any of the procedures that have already been introduced and are being performed like the part-work or part-time improvement pathway that's really mattered to you. However, I would like to say that we assume that we will extend it, but we also assume that there may be some adjustments that may be needed to make on the way out of experience. The original objective, which has been clear all the time, was that this route was for the paymen in this country primarily and to ensure the survival of the employees. Hence, she was very open, and she was approved at the General Assembly. This should be evaluated now as we examine the procedure. We will see in the near future the implementation of the company's budgets by the agreement between the Federal Bank and the State, when we have to complete a contract, and maybe already have done it this morning, I'm not going to swear for it, between the state and the Federal Bank on the implementation of these loans. As it is known, a company must meet clear conditions in order to have the right to such gross loans of state responsibility. There is no doubt that we need to consider further measures that will help us to take in less time. In particular, I would like to mention small companies who have just had to close because of the preventative measures. I give names to those who are independently active and monotonous. I give names to students' positions, but according to a more recent opinion, approximately 40% of the students in Iceland are not expecting a summer job. These are just a few of the many challenges facing all of us in what we have to deal with. There we need to think of less time, i.e. how we're going to look at the next few weeks and months, but we also have to start thinking for a long time, how Iceland will be when this epidemic is down - because it will - and then we'll have to weigh how society's going to live. I have been so happy with the solidarity that you have sensed in society in coping with the virus. Both companies and people have shown great responsibility. Groups at the General Assembly have shown great responsibility, and this is a precious one, but then you too will be angry when a business in the fishing field demands the state to over 10 billion because of the macrolic distribution. This is not a good way to promote solidarity in the community. This is not a good way to be on the same boat through the journey we are on. Although I believe the government has a good cause in this case, I think it is reasonable for these companies to consider retracting the demands. Now all of us, whether we are running a business, are hired men, senators, or whoever we are. There are fast steps ahead, not just when there are limitations at meetings, but times ahead of the economy. Then I come to what I mentioned earlier about how Iceland will be after this epidemic. It is difficult to determine what world scene will confront us. I allow me to state that none of us in this hall would have predicted in September, at the beginning of a council, that we would now have a closed border in Europe, even between the northern countries. There are some things that we won't be able to handle in the process, but we can handle a lot of things. As I have repeatedly said, the task of dealing with this epidemic is quite successful in Icelandic society, including the U.S. Economicly. We have discussed a powerful currency supply, a small debt of state, employment, and individuals, low interest levels, and much more that have come with us in the economic struggle. I would also like to mention the basics of society, the school system that has kept up their jobs in the face of enormous challenges and, of course, the health system that has been undergoing one of the greatest pressures of later life, and it is very difficult to cope with. We also need to think about the future, and there are new possibilities in every crisis. We have the opportunity to build here in the fields of innovation, research, and development. In fact, this epidemic has made it possible for the presidents of political parties to achieve a distorted telecommunication this morning for the first time in their relationship with which I believe our particular leap into the fourth industrial revolution. This epidemic may function like a fast prior to the fourth industrial revolution, since the changes we know to be ahead will pass more quickly. They may also include opportunities for Icelandic society. This epidemic has reminded us of how amazingly food has been exported in Iceland. Can we not do better in making more of our food here at home and thus be less dependent on others? And what Icelandic genetic analysis has contributed to this epidemic reminds us of the opportunities we have to do better when it comes to health science, research, and the development of health. There is something we should look forward to too. [[The president calls.]] I can't go any further, Mr. President, and I'm sorry I'm late.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u9	President. I appreciate this timely discussion. I suppose it will primarily be about the issues where the government has been most concerned, i.e. in the field of economic response to this condition. All of us in the Central Group and the Federal Government have supported all the suggestions the government has made to cope with this problem, and we will continue to support every suggestion to help people cope with the difficulties. I must admit, though, that I and we were very disappointed in the government's position that the greater part of the government should offer every proposal of government opposition to improve what the government had already offered. In some cases, it was merely to enable stewards to keep what they had proclaimed. You would think that if men were serious about the importance of being together and that the council worked together, the harmony and cooperation would work in both directions. I hope that there will be a change and that mutual and cooperative conversation will actually be expressed at the council. It is important that governments follow the guidance of those who know best in each area, but it is also very important that when governments study their policy, their vision is clear. Hence, when ministers speak in different directions, often incontrovertible, and at times seem to indicate that ministers see an opportunity to place their special interests on a schedule in the cover of this situation. While the government should, of course, follow the guidance of those who know best, the guidance must be clear from governments and in agreement. The measures that have been proclaimed have been made in many ways, but now I think that there's more to it than that, more extensive measures must be taken, and more basic and more general because, under conditions such as these, there is no room for more complex exports, even to the point that it can take weeks or months to solve the problem of enterprises which are faced with resignations, even in a short period of time, bankruptcy. I hope that the measures that will follow will become clearer, more broad, and larger, and will enable us to meet the groups that I was happy to hear. The prime minister mentioned earlier, to some extent, those who have forgotten or who have not been given sufficient consideration. It was especially pleasant to hear the highest. A minister named the food industry, but how important it is that we meet the current industry when even the European Union itself deviates from its rules to meet each country's food production. When the government introduced its actions at its time, they were told of the most extensive measures in the economic history of Iceland. Their scope is 230 billion. The more you looked at it, the most potential loans you could borrow from banks that still have great uncertainty, a short delay in tax pay, and more. V.E.G. The secretary of finance seemed to have forgotten when he introduced this fact that he himself had engaged in an introduction to the economic activities that amounted to 1,200 billion, but the positive thing about reviewing it is that it is a reminder of how much distance the government is now in order to handle this situation properly and to make it very handsome, far and wide. It is important to do so in that it reaches as many people without the use of the opportunity in a group of predominantities or to promote some particular category of political interests. So I'm sure that all of us at the council can work together to deal with these problems in a very general and broad way and to do what is necessary to get through this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u10	Mr. President. Thank you for this discussion and for the highest. Prime Minister for her word. I think it's useful now to discuss just what we know and what we don't know. We know that this is an unusual crisis that affects the entire globe and that conventional economists do not work. The law and demand won't work. The entire sector stops, society slows down, and there's little need to stimulate private consumption, at least A short time. People are either forbidden to use services, they don't have the guts, or they don't want them. We know that the results of this situation can be even more difficult for Iceland than for neighboring nations because it has brought back an unusually large percentage of its value. We know our professional lives are too simple. However, we also know that we are in a better position than many others to respond because we have been blessed in order to enjoy a high level of association with powerful public health systems, good schools, and well - being services, although we certainly need to do much better. We also know that even right - minded people now realize that the State's authority has to come to the rescue. That is true, it must be done, using more rapid and efficient assistance, which, though, needs more attention to people and homes. However, we do not know how long this left side of the right is going to last, although we certainly suspect it. We know that much more is needed, we have known for some time that small companies who are forbidden to perform services for a meeting ban need to be more supportive. More extensive operations have simply waited too long. The same can be said of further operations for homes, tenants, unemployed, and students. This has repeatedly been pointed out by both the United States and other government groups, but we know that the government wants to keep the cards tightly to itself and the introduction of the ruling parties is to be confined to the political treatment of matters. It's not coming up to take action. Yet, we have contributed much good and will continue to work faithfully, to handle, to fix, and to put up new operations. It is difficult to help when access to the needed information is not provided. It will delay the task. It will even increase the damage and is essentially unacceptable in this situation. Mr. President. You see, I believed that trust in politics would increase with the wider cooperation of political movements in these absurd times. Therefore, I am sorry that the government has not trusted in further cooperation with other categories of household and employment measures. Most of us neighbors have done so. Enough, the objective of the medical team has been to protect those who are most vulnerable to the virus. This has been very successful, but it must also be carried out in all the economic activities of the government. It is also true in time that no chain is stronger than the weakest link. Although the virus now puts everything in perspective, the challenges were huge before the blasting of the virus and the economy had begun to cool off. Despite the good recent years, you see that tens of thousands of people still live in want and if the game is not well maintained, this economic crisis will further increase in social inequities and poverty. A wise economic government involves promoting each individual and protecting the most vulnerable groups. Therefore, all actions need to be taken into account. As inequities and poverty as communities absorb power, much equality will not only lead to peaceful and more powerful communities but also comes in handy when the river is swirled. We will see that as we look at the lands around us, and that will help us to see even more in the future. At the moment, we are putting out fires, but then we need both courage and vision to make major changes in the tax system, divide the quality of our resources, and make sure that our resources fully yield and fairly to the public. There will be no doubt that those with more effort and that those less able to fit in will do less. While standing in harmony, responsibility, and failure in the public way are indeed very heavy when we slowly sail out of this crisis, we have been shown in the last few weeks the need for sharing our funds so that we can ensure a powerful public service. That is why it is an excellent time now to remind us that taxes are not the best investment that almost every individual will make over his or her life. At the same time that we must act quickly and surely we too need to have the courage to look ahead, even look a little more up and into the future. What lesson can we learn from this difficult experience that will help us to build a better society in the future? Yes, we learn that we must strengthen our joint infrastructure and ensure enough money so that they will benefit in a good year's journey but can also cope with more trying tests and that there will be a great variety of careers, fostering the delicate and small, creating more creative work. This requires that we engage in a revolutionary educational application. Of course, talking about the longer future in this situation may work, but we simply can't afford it. Two words must become a guide in our modern expedition to the future, equation, and variety.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying that we can all be very proud of how we've been successful lately. The health system has been able to withstand the pressures, health systems, and discussions during the past few years, including those of the Governing Body. for it to be too weak, money-welling, etc. We've seen what this same health system really is. There, the staff has worked hard and should be thanked for the amazing contribution made by the human family in the medical system. In this regard it is important that we have now reached contracts with the major health groups. That's why I say we're all supposed to be proud of our medical system. This is a time to see how proud we can be of the health system in Iceland. We owe thanks to all the people who have spent the night working day to ensure the safety and health of the people of the country. Together, we've all proved that we're all public defences. By showing it in our work, we have saved lives, and there is no doubt about it. From time to time, events happen in Iceland, where we face challenges to what we want to stand as a community. This is one of those events, it's an event that makes you proud to be an Icelander and tells you a lot about what it is and what it means to be part of a good society. The latest figures tell us that it seems that we have mastered the spread of the virus, but we must remain on guard. We must continue to act in the responsible way that we have done in the past few weeks. Today there were compromises on the fictitious ban of May 4th. This means that we will continue to exercise patience, but we know that it will be worth it. The economic actions that we have presented here and received confirmed and met together at the council have been extremely important. They have been put together in a most unusual situation of uncertainty. We can say that six weeks ago, some of the most black - scale scenarios were expected to affect the economy until the fall, but in a very short time, those staged images have changed, and those that were once, though suddenly becoming relatively optimistic in comparison. We need to prepare for this, that's how the winds can turn. This also shows that those who immediately claimed to know what to do were not exactly significant. There's still considerable uncertainty. We can say that our first action was to seize those who were in a free state. Because of how many have made good use of these provisions, how many have made use of the part-change, the part-time process, we can call it both, and how many have made use of paydays in the state and other resources, we can actually see the reflection of how much these have changed. Some of these are still final, for example, the bridge loans. I suppose I can sign them on Thursday, and then the bank will negotiate with financial companies, and the loans will be available to those who meet specific requirements for financial enterprises in the country. I have to say, too, because the next action is now being prepared, that as we build resources to meet the situation, we need to be honest that we cannot promise everyone that we will get out of this state in a financial sense. That's impossible. These will simply be difficult times. We can do what is wise to do, we agree together. I mention, for example, that those who have taken it in the community to close their operations must deserve community support. That's obvious. There's something I think we should take with us for the next action. There are many things that continue to work with us and we will try to exploit that position, e.g. It's a good debt of state funds. There is, however, a limit to how far we can go. Everyone needs to lie down on their oars. In this regard, I'd like to say that our fishing system is not physical laws. It is the work of men. Access to the resource, the control of the fish, how we want to secure the sustainability of the fishery, what cost we're going to take, is everything we can do at the Council by law and order. The potential conflict of markets between exports cannot be solved at the taxpayers' expense. It won't be like that. Now we have taken refuge in the so - called mackerel language. We'll clean up the heat. In fact, I have good expectations that we will win this case. If that matter is unlikely to go into trouble, it is simply in my mind that the account is not sent to the taxpayers. The pay will then have to come out of the article. It's so simple. A respectable president. There are many things you would like to attend a discussion on such a grand subject as this one has been given. There is much left to say. Meetings ahead will be a continuation of this discussion. Finally, I would like to send thanks to all the people of the country for their solidarity and proper response. To all of us, I say, we must remain public security. In every aspect of life, I sent a great deal of thanks. This has been and will continue to be a test for Icelandic society. We've resisted it so far, and let's keep up the fight together.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u12	Mr. President. A recent epidemic has cost large numbers of human communities. 120,000 global deaths are serious human injuries. It is good, though, that in many countries, especially in this country, health authorities seem to be dealing with this bad virus. It involves an incredible solidarity among the public, selfless professional on the frontlines, which cannot be properly thanked, but especially for the culture of free and open science that enables mankind to understand and share knowledge more quickly than ever before. It is only natural in these circumstances to wonder when society will be able to be restored. Such questions need to be followed by an understanding that the world has changed. What will be normal in the years ahead will be different from what appeared to be normal a few months ago. The question of political importance is how we want the world to change and what we can do to shape the conclusion. Let us note that return to normal is a return to stress and unhappiness, to employment insecurity, to insecurities, to the destruction of earth's ecosystems, and to the growing dissension, both here and in the world. The opportunity now is to make good use of the solidarity that has developed and the peculiar circumstances, as bad as they are. It is not only about saving the old one but also about action within the country and international in order to nurture the new one. The most important thing is to ensure the basis for society and continued access to the resources we need in order for everything to work well. Unemployment rate has become high. Many companies have problems, and many people fall between ships and docks, where there is no unemployment insurance or other resources. So now it is a good time to consider switching them into systems for negative income taxes or other forms of civilian pay, where depositers under certain reference levels get the difference from common funds. Thus we create a flexible safety net for everyone. For such an arrangement to be free of charge, we need to consider that the economy of our country will be built on resistance, sustainableness, and prosperity. There is good reason to use democratic processes to achieve new community opportunities for future economic conditions. Counsel must be sought, not only by the hand of government stakeholders, but also by the common people. The people who sit at home have ideas, opinions, and wants to be useful. Let us benefit from the wisdom of the masses. Conspiracy with the Council is unacceptable, and there is a significant need to be corrected. Conspiracy with the nation is simply a poor use of important resources. The health scale system is important, but why are the republic's bass department not being further used? Mr. President. In the past few weeks, many people have found themselves aimless and drifting in this condition. Perhaps there are two main causes. On the one hand, there has been no lack of enabled to do the good things they can do, and, on the other hand, as a community, we are also accustomed to being always in fifth gear. The fact that many people have had time to breathe in their abdomen recently, relax, and enjoy family association, even having Internet chats with old friends, is quite positive, but it is not surprising that some may want to hold on to some part of this calmness permanently. Then it is important that we determine if the economy really needs this insane overproduction of everything, possibly the remaining labor force and its pollution. With a better estimate of value, you may be able to look to a greater extent forbbreviated weeks of work, so that an endless profit may be replaced by just more sophisticated ideas about a good society. To place all such ideas in law, government policy, etc. is our assignment in the near future. It requires review of public financial law, social security, unemployment insurance, etc. It also requires further funding in innovation, testing, and development of the health system and in other areas. It also requires that we get our finest people to soak our heads, from education to organizational matters. Internationally, countries that are taking control of the virus come up with common control standards for the quality of the disease so that life can be blown into international trade and free movement of security. The attacks of some national leaders on the international system recently, and especially in the World Health Organization, are a heart beat that needs to be referred to the Fatherhouses. International cooperation now needs to be increased and enhanced when mankind faces a common catastrophe. As with nationalism, this is as true today. President. The red thread in what I've said is the thread Piranha has been proclaiming from the institution, i.e. more democracy, more transparency, more cooperation, flexible and humane economy, more liberal and man - made society. These are not radical ideas, except for those who want to go the wrong way toward a radical, closed society. What a blessing it is that in spite of natural fear and the need for temporary restrictions on everyone's freedom, there has been no desire for them! I consider it to be a sign of a powerful community that fear has not led us into Fascisman's path. Finally, I would like to commend all Icelanders for having been strong in all of this, for standing together and showing what we have. It's also true about the government, although I do the normal requirements for conversation and cooperation that I mentioned earlier. Well done, Iceland! We have shown that we can fight this virus together. Let us now show that we can create the future together.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u13	A respectable president. As we stand here in the middle of the fight with Covid-19 and consider the situation, we do well to review our goals on this virus and the decisions on the use of anti-infectives. Yes, it was in order for the health - care system to cope, and it would never be more epidemic, and it would be the death of the human family as few as possible. I think it might be said that we did quite well on this journey, even compared to other nations. We may have had less political statements, but we have been better prepared in the health system, and our health - care system has certainly met our requirement to deal with this. Of course, it is not the least thanks to the wonderful people working there, and I want to use this opportunity to thank all those in front of a great job. Since then, in the political field, we have seen the economic situation. We presented some 20th of March as a protection. One of the things that matter, and we haven't discussed much, is the importance of continuing to go on in school. It was important for society, to protect society, to continue school as possible, of course with certain limitations. We went to defense, where perhaps the part - time ministry was the most important and most important part - time work. We've been postponing pay, taxpaying, community and state, it's also helped. All of this was done because we were watching an extended period of time. We agreed on an $18 billion investment to get things going, the careers that could still work. Now we are faced with that envying position because we made a lot of right decisions with our wonderful people on the frontlines, being able to start by reducing our limits. True, it is only after three weeks, but it is on the same day that some nations are still proclaiming an extension of the Exodus, the nations we thought had excellent health systems, and good things to do. Everybody's doing their best. But we watch what this virus does because it is the uncertainty factor. It's what's causing this. And what does she do now? Will she continue to behave in the same fashion? Continue to engage? Will she lie down as many influenza viruses do, surface seasonal, surface again and again? We don't know. Is it wishful thinking that it disappears, as has sometimes happened in this world? We don't know the answers to all of this, as the situation is today. That is why we need to be prepared for everything. That is why we are watching the two economic operations, which we may be able to work at the end of this week or at the beginning of the next week. There we will no doubt continue to observe some kind of community protection and social emphasis, in order to establish the connection between students and students in their jobs and further studies, to get more people involved. We'll no doubt look at defenses, seek every way to secure the cash and business of companies. They've named here today the small companies, which were closed by the Center for Disease Control. Of course, we need to examine their situation. It's obvious. They were defending society, and it is natural for society to defend them. We will also look at the subject of resistance, and there we need to look to a new creation. We've talked about it. We've been talking about today that this could be a speed turn for a digital Iceland. We can go into that environment faster than we have to watch innovation in all sectors. We have also spoken of the need to strengthen and be ready to rebuild our tourism activities. We packed one of 1.5 billion for domestic effort. In the next few months, we may need to encourage further internal consumption by traveling in the country. No doubt we need to look at food production. We are a resource-powered economy largely. Of course, we need to look at the other factors, increasing what is often called something else. The fact is, tourism will bring us less money. The production of energy-rich industrial activity will bring us less money because of the global consumption, but what is obvious is the continuing consumption of and demand for food. That's where we're strong. Obviously, we should look to that. The government and agricultural minister are simply working on contracts with gardeners these days. There must be a decrease in the cost of electrical energy, as we have often spoken of, and to the extent possible, it must be maintained. There must be some sort of land payment to encourage the breeding of vegetables that we've seen have fallen in proportion to the import in recent years. If we're going to do something by increasing domestic food production at this time, we'll have to consider, and we've had a tour of the Aggressor, customs, customs protection. Tolar, for example, is used to cover costs, variable stock costs, cost of operating during manufacturing. That's the thought behind the toll. We've let it go for a very long time. If we're going to do something by increasing domestic production, it's a pretty obvious way to look at it too, I'd count. We need to look at the seabed. We need to watch what has been our biggest opportunity, especially in export, to increase the value of a fishing road. Selling our image, our product, and our quality may involve global effort. The marine road itself has been able to live up to this, but because other resources are giving up very much in this year, we may have to wonder whether we should use the excellent position we have created by developing strong institutions to fish simply more once in an effort to create income for our community. That's one of the things I think we should at least wonder about. Clearly, we need to recognize that the actions we are now considering will no doubt fail. If the virus behaves in the worst way, we may well need to intervene in the months and even further into the future. We simply do not know. We just need to take the wisest steps at any given time. That's what we have to do. We are in a good place, however. This is because humans have taken correct measures, making right decisions, small and large. Just postponing the Passover dinner was a good decision on the part of each person, traveling within the house, as was done well, and excellent marketing on, fun song, great solidarity. It matters, and I'm proud of the country's solidarity. All have done their part. But now that it is three weeks for us to lose weight, the number of infections will decrease, it will be harder to remind us of our solidarity. Remember, only one infected hour, one evening, will be needed to produce a new group infection. Remember, too, those who have become seriously ill, some who had only been healthy, really remember this in the weeks that we might see the virus yielding. Let us not be joyful too soon, and then we will be successful. My last words are: We need to maintain our solidarity. We're going to win, we're going to win, we're going to get it, but we're not going to get over it too soon. During the following weeks and months, we may have to speculate on how we are going to achieve the most intense resistance, and it is obvious that domestic production will be of great importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u14	A respectable president. First, I want to thank all the individuals in the Icelandic community who have been on the frontlines for almost three months of their self - sacrificing and professional life, putting their arms around all the rest of us, putting on a certain barrier so that we could keep on living and working, while our prominent people have placed themselves in a life - sustaining environment to care for and support weak individuals. I would like to thank others in the community who have kept it going, such as the people in the school and education system. This has not been an easy task, but we have faced it and have managed to solve it in general. We have done so by doing it together. This call for solidarity is not some empty sheet of paper. It is simply vital that we follow the instructions that our trident has given us the order of disinfecting and springing, of telecommunications, or of who they are, all these beautiful New English words that we are making about these times, telecommunications and so forth. It's all one big partnership, and it's the responsibility of all of us. Certainly the government has decided, and I respect the position, not going a broad political side, at least not the same way as the neighboring nations many have been going. All right. At any rate, we're going to continue with our stand and call and push on the important matters of the government and try to pay their streets, improve them if necessary. I think it's important that we cooperate with them to handle their cases for the development of Iceland. The guide needs to be clear, and I would like to give the occasion to tell you that any conflicting information from the government and the secretary's race for any declarations about when it should be, and when it should not be helpful to lift a tourist may not be helpful. That's why I want to go to the top. The prime minister I know is a powerful spokesman to help us keep the material sound and have some discipline in the administrative home. We need to think now beyond the ordinary. It can be as difficult to get out of this situation as we entered it. Hence, we need to take care of the least of our brothers and sisters. But the biggest business of the next cycle and the next few years will be economic and financial issues. We have to try to avoid the fact that the public and the business are going to have the so - called disaster cover on their back, as one nice economist put it. We need to consider going unconventionally because this is not a traditional capital crisis, currency crisis, or debt crisis, but is something else, something we have never experienced before. We need, for example. to consider whether the fixed cost of an enterprise will be paid temporarily. Hopefully, in the fall, the restoration begins, after this temporary situation, and it is of enormous importance that companies are equipped to participate in investments. We must not tie them to debt, so they will not be prepared to take us on this vital journey. It's great to go to human activity, and, of course, we're supposed to go to the Smokey Way right now when no tourist is, try to make it count. But we have to focus on the little companies. We must emphasize the intelligence, the human race, the education and culture, so that we can move forward, not just in the water route, but in the energy - consuming industry, and build up the tourism industry again, but on intelligent basis. I'm happy if I explained earlier that the government is going to agree with our proposal in the government's opposition to look particularly at small companies and particularly in the fields of innovation and research, securing the payment rate, making sure we actually go out with a lifeline to the sceptres of the country. We must also have the courage to think for a long time about how a community we want to see in this country after the virus has disappeared, how we are going to ensure that we are fully involved in the economy, our people, and our homes. Transparent is here a key element. It must be a government guide, as soon as the government walks in an unprecedented way into commercial and commercial life, to transfuse the state. We need to be clear at this time when there may be some who are considering using these fragile economic conditions in the weeks and months to come. The beginning of the procedure needs to be clear. [[The president calls.]] - I'll just keep going and walk on the next one's time. It should be clear from the beginning how the game rules will be in the restoration of jobs, that the same guidelines apply for everyone, not just for some, because the democracy and the maintenance that comes with it does not become disease-infested. We take our role in government opposition seriously so that we make rich demands for the government to take decisive action for business and employment, while at the same time the requirement for translucency and the social responsibility of our companies is determined. Who gets what, on what grounds, why, by what rules, nothing will be secret, absolute transparency. Don't give off the rules on healthy competition. Do not weaken the Contestant Control, do not have room for unfounded shelter or cover up in something called delicate information. All that's fragile and the only thing that can't be done in this unprecedented position is that public interests will be replaced by special interests. The general interest must be determined, always, everywhere, in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u15	Mr. President. It is safe to say that the effects of the Covid pandemic are quite different from what we could have imagined. It is likely a blind flight that we have not been able to predict, the greatest economic hardship we are facing in our lifetime for a century. The economy is all red, but it looks for a better way of dealing with the epidemic itself, fortunately. In this area, the public and health authorities have done a great job, and in all of this, we have seen the depth of the value of having a good public health system, and it has certainly proved to be a challenge. The public has also accepted their responsibility in public defenses, and this may not be the case. But there is much to be left, and we need to be patient and patient in the months and years, and now it is the endurance that matters, that we do not allow ourselves to be bored because of all limitations, to become careless and to continue to be careful. That's not an option. Governments have taken many action, and more are due, as we have seen. There's no space here to exactly review them all, but I still want to skim a little on a big one and go over a few things especially that I think are important. Now that people are to stay at home and are encouraged to travel inside the house, they become more evident that the home is not a sanctuary for everyone as it should be. Therefore, I think it is extremely important that the construction of the new women's home is going to be a quick stop. We need to respond to this increased need of service. This is why the government has made 100 million this year. Funds included an additional 3 billion in research, innovation, and creative articles. In this context, I'd like to mention 100 million. K. contributes to the New World Fund of students. Now that there is an intense recession in the field where students have been very important, it is important to counter their predictable unemployment by various measures. The fact that students have developed ideas about solutions because of the situation they are facing, including ... becauseof summerwork, which I think is worth listening for. An additional advance in the New World Fund of students is one of the measures made by the government, which is both professional and gives students the opportunity to use their education and to deepen their knowledge. Mr. President. The importance of food safety should be clear at this time. Foreign vegetable farmers feel a great deal about it when restaurants and cafeterias are shut down that people want to choose Icelandic. Therefore, this is an ideal time to support specifically the growth of healthy domestic vegetables. A financial committee added funds to what the government had already suggested and was approved for the Passover to support vegan farmers. This is an action that increases long-term food security and makes our food intake climate, so it is absurd to import tomatoes with its own carbon lines from the Netherlands when they can be cultivated here. In addition, 50 million were added to climate reserves to promote innovation in climate. I believe that green innovation will create good work for the future and will contribute to the green transformation of the economy. The taxpayers of the future will have to pay off the increasing debt that the state now makes in order to face this crisis. Therefore, we owe them not to slacken their hand in action to prevent disaster. A respectable president. As soon as it became clear what was going on in the discussion, the contribution substantiated. That way is primarily thought of for people, not for business. Instead of binding the resources to the economy of an enterprise and thus excluding a large group of workers from making use of these rights, it was decided to have resources for the staff in any article they work for and in any company they work for. In addition, they were extended to include groups such as students and individuals with temporary employment permits that otherwise would not have enjoyed them. This will help to prevent the unemployment and the ills that come with it for individuals and society for all. Mr. President. We are now hoping to sail into the second half of the battle with this disease, but the economic consequences are just beginning. As we have coped with the disease with solidarity and perseverance, the same values need to be true of the economic effects of abrupt blocking the economy. So far, it's been a good thing for us here in this hall not to be in political argas and campaigns in this serious situation, and I have hoped that this will continue because it's the best way for us to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u16	A respectable president. The Covid-19 virus has shown that it is subject to death. What may have hit you most is how amazingly many deaths have occurred, worldwide about 6% and in Spain, which seem to have gone very badly out of it, by and over 10%. It tells us that we must take the situation seriously and do everything we can to protect people. One that's been talking about and the highest. The prime minister made a comment. We're on our way up a hill because of Covid, but out there's a big group that's always climbing hills. People who walk on crutches, go about in wheelchairs, or suffer from disease are always climbing uphills. Sadly, the question is, When will these people begin to be prohibited? When will it harm people if they do not get used to physical therapy, swimming, or exercise? I lost my physical therapy, and I've often wondered where the line is. The question facing these people today is whether they should prepare strong painkillers. This in itself raises another question, for no one knows when and whether the drug will be dependent on it and may fall prey to addiction. Hence, we must also consider those who are struggling with and helping addictions. Another factor that has been discussed here and is a large part of it is the partial improvement process. Sadly, we witness that a group falls from one side to another without help. You have seen examples of students in two or even three jobs, no more than 25%, all of them missing and not getting anything. That's not how we're supposed to work. Somehow we need to figure out how we can help these people because they may have been in some 50 to 60% part - time jobs, but they can't help us today. Then there is what we don't seem to learn from, collapse. We seem to forget that people lost tens of thousands of apartments. Why did they lose their apartments? It's about a change of pace. People had a loan that went down because of a gang, but also because of inflation. Why do we have insurance on us? Now it's kind of stopped by itself and we should stop it because it's not really possible to calculate it correctly and to rule out the position we are today. A few of her parts are out. We're just supposed to make sure it's stopped. In this context, the highest was said. A little in this chair, talking to me about the other day I was afraid to even reason with him because I thought I had heard wrong. I looked into the text and saw that he said there was 0% in inflatable loans and would be until 2026 after the intervention of Iceland's Secret Bank. I went to check it out, but I can't find it anywhere. What are the weight of 0% chosen interest rates from day to day when the Sustainer recently reduced its control interest to 2026? I know it's not home. The second thing I'm surprised to know is that the patch package is minimal. Fortunately, no one gets less than 400,000 bucks. Because it's hard to live with memory. For some reason, we all calculated it, and fortunately, that artistic wages would be 407,000. Someone suggested paying thousands of artists wages. It would be the best thing to do if we could, but then I'd like an explanation for why a very large number of senior citizens and desperate people are going to live at 257,000 bucks. for tax. It's 40% less than this. Who calculated this? How was that calculated? Why in the hell is this? How to say to the individuals who will live at 40% less, 150,000. it is less than a month, that at the same time, there is talk of a raise in the Senate salary of about 70,000 dollars. and up to 127,000 bucks.? Where are the biographies? Why is the quarter all of a sudden gone? Why is there a percentage all of a sudden? V.E.G. The prime minister pointed out in a discussion that this increase was 6.3% in pay market development and pay development in the state. Yet, the 69th grade lasts. Social security legislation that social security benefits should be increased according to pay development. During the last year of the year 3 C.E., there was some percent, half as much. Is that some other form of pay? This is not the way to calculate things. It must be time to get an explanation about why we have this year after year. As we have seen in the discussion, there is much to be done. What we need to make sure that number one, two and three is that everyone will get the help they need. We must also make sure that we stop showing favoritism just because it is possible. If we turn it into biographies, we'll have to make a total of 20,000,24,000. increase in months for the next three, four years, how on earth are we going to give it to those who have the most? These increases are being said to decline. That's not possible. We've learned that we can't restore laws. We learned that from the loss of an older citizen's pension fund. If we are going to do something about this, the only way that we can just set laws and do so in one day is to reduce our wages again. It's the only way. If you don't, we'll get this raise. It can only be stopped in this one way, seeing to it that it will continue to interfere. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u17	Madam President. As a result of the 2008 economic collapse, we are experiencing standards of change. We can see this, for example. in that society is learning to appreciate the work of the great castes essential to living daily. I am referring not only to the good work being done by health professionals and teachers but to the countless groups of low - paying people, to the people who go on vacation homes, to the people who shepherd the bus that makes camp boxes, and not to be allowed to experience the importance of their work in the pay layer. That's what needs to be changed. The measures that governments take in these days will also change what we consider possible in general. In September, that's it. e.g. Four government advisers cannot be signed on the demands of the climate strike to protect 2.5% of national production for climate, however consistent with the UN International Commission on Climate. The U.S. government operation program is up to 0.05% of national production, so that leaping to 2.5% has likely been of such magnitude that the Ministers could hardly imagine it. That would be 70 billion dollars. which, in fact, happens to be almost the exact amount of public donations in the economic activities that the government has already introduced for the Covid-19 now less than a month ago. Perhaps the demands of the climate strike were not so out of the map as we consider the reaction to a medical emergency. Then let us remember, too, that when we are headed for a gray day because of air pollution in the capital area, we have other options besides keeping playboys inside the door. Lately, it has been found that much of the workers can do their jobs temporarily through long hours of work. It would have been hard to imagine a few years ago, but hopefully the next time a gray day predicts it will be possible to engage. During the development of society over the next few years, we can prepare for a future we know to be marked by significant changes in labour markets and climate changes. They need to be careful not to think too much of green building projects as old - fashioned projects but as investments in social infrastructure, knowledge and research, health systems, education systems, and culture. The support network that all of us have tried and tried over the past few weeks provides the basis for the ability of a valuable creation to take place in the community. Marked and ambitious responses to Covid-19 show us that the limits of the potential for equalizing, well - being and prosperity are not some hard walls, but only standards we set ourselves. There are standards that we can change for ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u18	Mr. President. In the unprecedented situation we face, the Central Party has supported any government action aimed at defending business and employment in general. But we have also encouraged further progress as soon as possible, which we believe is important because measures that are too late can cost a lot more money than the money that is going to stop a job. Prominently, the old practice and many of the measures taken take into consideration. In many cases it may be possible to delay well, but it may also be clear that many companies will not be better equipped after three or six months to cover taxes or fees. The middle class has thus spoke for quick, simple, and general measures, and it has been considered necessary to temporarily reduce the taxes on an enterprise, the loss of individual pay days, while the situation is the most difficult, and to mention the insurance fee in particular. Here, society will also not be excluded. They have to consider reducing property fees on an enterprise or paying off some individual paydays. Mr. President. Like others, I welcome newly established agreements with nurses who have recently been on the front of the front line. This reminds us that for a long time police officers have been uncontracted and have not gone into their negotiations with the government, perhaps because of a class that has no right to strike. Or if their conduct in the last crisis were to take their hands out of their pockets and negotiate with a class of police officers, it may not be too great for the government to take their hands out of the pocket. I also wondered, " Is the interest of large groups of dictators, car drivers, guides, and hair clerks, whether the interests of these groups were sufficiently loyal? ' It would be helpful to hear the highest. The prime minister explains how to deal better with those important groups. Mr. President. Even now, as the world's economic system is low because of the virus epidemic, many people wonder how the world will look at the end of the epidemic. In my opinion, now is the time to consider that we become as much of ourselves as possible about our basic needs. We cannot be sure that we are always here and always able to deliver all our basic necessities and consumer products. The view of more intensive domestic production, which is growing on the east side at this time, also has the advantage of being much environmentally different from the migration of countries and continents between countries. I believe that part of the money the government uses to protect the commercial life for some time should be used to promote domestic agriculture, gardening, and a small industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u19	Mr. President. When one spoon is completed in our lives, the first steps will be taken in the next very important. We are faced with such segments in society. What governments decide now, how short - term reactions have been and how they become, and how they contribute to the Covid-19 society, is what they plan to do in the history of Icelandic society, for that will change a lot, and we can get a good result, just if we want to. These days, it becomes so clear from which communities are inhabited, communities such as the Norwegians with a strong health and welfare system for all, communities that have endured much of the gift of liberalism, will get away best from this crisis. Lands such as the United States have good health systems for some but nothing for others, where markets go and also on welfare matters, are bad. We can even see that. on the mortality rates of the poor black people in the United States. Then there are the countries that are short - lived in total tendencies and dictators that use the epidemic to tighten the grip of human rights. We see the weaknesses of our society in the inequities. Let's start by making the most of it. Now that so many have lost their jobs, we must work against increasing poverty and make sure that people are not forced to earn money under the poverty line. That's why we're moving to the United States to raise unemployment rates. The daughters are far too low, and far below the minimum. In order to improve the benefit of children, we suggest that child reforms and standards be adjusted so that children's families, who have lost a lot of money this year, will be eligible for child care. We've already suggested with a bill working on a welfare committee to pay the social security costs to increase to the biographies to improve the status of micro-rich and older citizens who need to rely on the insurance company's payments. Farmers play a key role, and the cooperation of countries and rural society needs to be good, and communication measures need to be paid. Like the State, rural communities lose income, and at the same time, they are required for additional expenses, but they cannot print money. They must be able to care for children, disabled, and elderly ones, and to maintain strong social services in these difficult situations. Larger amounts of money have to be placed for national parishions, especially in cultural and innovations. Artists have lost the opportunity to raise income for a while, and governments should promote culture in all countries. The government must bring further measures for my company, students, vulnerable groups and homes. Many homes, like businesses, will be affected. Their business problems, like their companies, have to be faced, and there is no long delay in working out their resources. Many stories can be said about the challenges of companies in tourism. Some of these need to be paid in advance orders, sometimes with a review of high interest rates and also a cost to other currency. The problem exists in various ways, and uncertainty about the future is absolute, and banks have to succeed in this situation. [[The president calls.]] The Government and the Federal Committee have enabled them to meet companies and households, which is to be done. All of us need to show community responsibilities in this situation, including banks and builders. [[The president calls.]] I want to say the bottom line. Prime Minister when she urges developers to withdraw the demands of the State for macrotics. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u20	President wants to ask why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u21	President. The greatest health threat, in some ways hoping longer, at least For now. That's extremely important. We may be seeing one of the world's best successes in fighting the virus, but we cannot, of course, beat ourselves to the chest, for the epidemic can still break down. I'd like to say here that I'm proud of the way this huge project has been completed by Icelandic society so far. The people of the land are to be commended for their persistence and efforts to reduce the number of infectious diseases. This has been true, especially when it comes to poor communication with elderly and sick adults, even to their final greeting. There is great uncertainty about the subsequent developments, both in the development of the epidemic here but also in other countries as well as in the subsequent steps of the government. Their decisions, e.g. About transportation restrictions, it will be of great importance to us. The uncertainty is most evident in tourism, one of our most important occupations, but it also affects most people, if not all, other activities. Despite the uncertainty of the subsequent events, the economic impact can be established that far exceeds the expectations at first. A significant part of industry has suffered a massive loss of income, even almost complete in some cases. Studies indicate that more than 40% of all enterprises in the country see that income in the second quarter decreases by more than 50% compared to the same quarter of last year. These responses are a reflection of the prospects that economic impacts will last considerably longer than expected at the beginning. It can be called nothing more than an economic catastrophe, and the same or similar situation exists around the world. Nearly three weeks ago, The Economist magazine predicted that economic growth this year would be negative by 7% in Italy, nearly 7% in Germany, 5% in Britain, and 5% in France. In a way, the prospects may have deteriorated since that forecast. The first economic actions of the Icelandic government were sensible and important. Experience has shown this. A survey of the activities of sectoral organisations shows that the largest government action has taken on almost 80% of companies, but it was immediately announced that there would be more to be done and that it would be unsatisfactory. These steps are now being shaped, but we may at first be on a different track. It will have to be more intense to meet the companies in order to skim them over this period, and it will have to do even more to ensure a vigorous resistance and new application during this period of time. We have already improved 700 million in the Technical Development Fund, and I feel that it shows that the Council and the government have a full understanding that the fight is not least dependent on giving their intelligence even more oxygen to create new solutions, new values, and new jobs. What really matters is that we are going to rebuild our tourism activities. I say the future is bright for Icelandic tourism, but we will have to go through a difficult time until that future appears to us. We look at the face of a changed world. We don't know exactly what he'll look like. Many good things will follow, but other things are worse. Isolation is one of the things I worry about and it hurts. Economic events have harmful effects, especially on those who are losing weight. The good things that come out of this, and I hope we don't go back when we're done, are for the production of technology, the speed now of finding new solutions, using new technologies, and making new valuables. We have moved faster over the past few weeks in various fields, but we have made many mistakes in the past. New creation is not a backup force that we take to heart in times of evil. Rather, it is simply a basis for progress. She lives everywhere, in travel, industry, food production, other services, health care, education, agriculture, everywhere. The mind does not have to protect or save, so there is simply no limit. Icelandic society is a strong society. I think one of the things that's gonna come out of this is that we're gonna re-enact what a strong community is. A union with a strong infrastructure, a strong welfare system, and a powerful business life is a strong community. A society that can maintain itself at the same time when such a threat can be dealt with is a strong society. A society that trusts in best information and does not fear it is a strong community. We will have to go through difficult times, make painful decisions, and be disappointed. We will not do everything right, but we will get through this period. We're going to make good use of the time. We need to keep our eyes on the opportunities and the future while we are doing what is wise in a difficult life - saving work. It is important not to forget that there are many opportunities. Despite everything, we are a blessed society, and we have every opportunity to do well and make good use of the time. We'll get through it together, and there'll be some good things out of this too.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u22	President. In less than a month, the activities of the General Assembly were impaired as much as possible because of the pandemic of Covid-19. The committee's work has been limited to the most urgent response to the epidemic, and less than two weeks have passed since the last meeting. V.E.G. The news media has been described by the president that he does not know that similar restrictions were placed on the council's activities in the history of Generalis. Such measures have been agreed on so far, but she was well convinced that the government that formed a government covenant for the authority of the Council would consult the lesser part, seek out good ideas, and allow us to keep track of its actions and plans. It is, therefore, a source of great disappointment. The prime minister repeatedly rejected the outside hand of the government. When asked if she should have more consultation with the government opposition, the prime minister points out that cooperation is going well with the committees of the council. However, committee work is not a consultation with opposition. Fortunately, the democratic government order of the country has to pass through the Parliament's professional committees, where all classes will arrive. V.E.G. The prime minister knows better than to balance legal and democratic procedures with consultations and cooperation with opposition. A field for the maintenance of government opposition is as good as gone in the international emergency we now face, so it is important to have a leader who can unite all classes in their response and that let everyone at the table. V.E.G. A prime minister does not have to look far to find role models in democratic cooperation in times of need. Her wife's group sister and my party sister make up a new section at City Hall. All responses and plans have been made in good cooperation with all categories that share the suggestions. They see that no matter where good ideas come from. Why is it so important that the prime minister does not want to follow the same procedure that makes good use of the wisdom and knowledge of the entire council? I'm not asking for myself, I'm asking for the thousands of voters who trusted me and the other members of the government resistance to work at the General Assembly, to monitor a government that is now mostly in closed rooms, and to refer to a minimally democratic process of commissioning to decorate himself with stolen feathers of consultation. That's not acceptable, Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister rightly urged unappreciative builders to stop demanding more from the state's wealth than the government's contribution to the gift offering of the government brought them in the form of mackerel about the year. On the other hand, I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to stop producing hunting warrants that obviously do not appreciate giving, even retracting them in steps like me and Pirats, will not tire of calling in. President. Now is a time for solidarity, as the prime minister has repeatedly called. So it is tragic that the Catherinen government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir made it more important for governments to make it easier for pregnant women and defenseless children to flee to Greece, Italy, Hungary, and other neglected countries, completely away from their individual circumstances. It beats a new record in human wickedness, self-involved and irresponsible, and I feel very sad that Iceland's destructive policy with refugees is to be cremated right now when they need what we need. At present, the government stands in action, which involves a massive discharge of public funds and the role of the Generals is minimal. The banks have been given loose bandages for lifelines to companies in tight position and fear of movement. It is not long before the last act, and it did not tell a beautiful story about equality and justice when it came to which company to live and which company they would not get. But at least at the time, Doing a council. At that time, representatives of all classes had a regular access to the affairs of the government, had access to information, and had access to the council. The prime minister, who was in the government, must see the fundamental situation in which the government now resides, but, unfortunately, it holds the position of the government away from all its strategy in the shelter of an emergency, an escape from democratic care and supervision. That's not acceptable, Mr. President. That government must be able to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u23	V.E.G. President. I thank you for this discussion and would like to first offer thanks to the public defense and health systems that have certainly been successful in ensuring the health of the nation. Regression is an important step and it appears that we are mastering the project, extending the stress process of the healthcare system, and maintaining a more manageable position. But it may be that the most important thing to keep alert and that we continue to defend our health - care system so that it is always there to care for all those in need, whether it is Covid-19 or anything else that is going on. On the other hand, if we can call it a respectable president, with both factors in mind, a functioning health system, and a healthy functioning society, we must be not afraid. When it comes to the actions of other nations, it is primarily one thing that most people and all agree on, i.e. Undeniably, and at the same time, how to take the road back towards what we can call a more conventional mechanism of action in society, employment and economy. This even reflects. in that no one is confident about predicting but is drawn up staged images of progress from different criteria. But what lies ahead is that the world's funds need to take on a major blow. We are prepared, the cap will become substantial, and will be marked by the economic downturn, the decapitability of the situation, and the direct expenses of the measures being undertaken to protect companies and households. There should be no hesitation, a respectable president, who will continue to live in the best interests of his life and get us out of this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u24	Mr. President. A number of factors are taking into account when considering the response to Covid-19 whether this is a reaction to the health problem as such or secondary economic and social effects. More recently, the work is about delinquency, and it is certainly a serious project, as mentioned here, but in the long run, there is also the opportunity to shake into systems that have been left behind when society has developed, an opportunity to adapt it to today's needs and future rather than to defend the past, an opportunity to adapt the systems of public interests. Many, and rightly, have reminded them of the importance of farming in modern conditions. Agriculture is and hopefully will eventually be one of the foundations of our economic and community in the scattered areas of the country and an important part of the national food security. Yet, there is an ever - increasing number of doubt - and rightly so, that the present funding system is the best way to trust that support for the future. Trends in manufacturing and changes in public consumption habits are expected to change. These changes need not be needed and will not include subsidies of the State's financial support, other than that, but financial support needs to cover a greater share of agricultural activities than is currently available, including to stimulate recruitment in this article. The marine road does not contribute to the negative effects of Covid-19. At the same time, we find reports of seven developers who want more than 10 billion compensations from the state fund following the court of the Supreme Court on the unregistered distribution of macrolocata two years ago. These demands have met with hostility in society, including the U.S. However, each member of the Parliament, who a year ago singled out as one vote against the time - consuming privileges of macroticism. I'm a member of the council. We'll set the law. There is a hollow sound in critical of the consequences of a system that lays the basis for these outputs, which are certainly non-receptive, especially at these times, but would not at the same time be involved in bringing this same system to a better end by the necessary change in the constitution. Mr. President. In general, it is not enough for Covid-19 to threaten the health of the people in general, but there is a risk that domestic violence could increase even more during the meetings and isolation. [[The president calls.]] There is already evidence that this is so. The fact is, homes are not a sanctuary for all. All of us need to be on guard, keep our eyes and ears open, think of relatives, friends, associates, acquaintances, neighbors, and others with whom we communicate. Let's step in when we need to. Family violence is never a part of our community. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u25	V.E.G. President. Conspiracy, conversation, cooperation, solidarity. I agree with the highest. Prime Minister that at the council there has been a great agreement on matters that have already been taken over for the sake of the effect of Covid-19, but this is not because the government has shown interest in consultation, conversation, or cooperation. With great respect to the fact that individual senators or members of Congress can send suggestions to the Ministry Department's e-mail address, I would like to comment on the highest level. Prime Minister is having a very good interview this morning in Science, with one of the best executives in Iceland, Dr. Bjarni Snæbjörn Jónsson, in which he reviews key points that a good crisis manager needs to have. First of all, it's being calm and looking at the bigger picture, and I'm not gonna complain that the government hasn't done it like that, but number three, tops. Prime Minister: He builds up a team. And now that we have very long to go in this fight, I'm at the highest level. First, prime minister to read this interview and second, to help. I think there'd be a lot more stupid for the government than making a mental meeting with a government official. In this hall, there is quite some sense, considerable experience, a lot of education, a fertile thought in some places, so there's nothing but winning for the government to call on government opposition today. You see, the government has done all the things I mentioned earlier. She has cooperated with the government because she accepts her democratic responsibility. It will, of course, continue the government, but I say to the highest. Prime Minister: It is in the best interests of the government to invite others to this work that is far from completed. I meant to say much more than I have no time to say. I'm just going to say to each and every one of us who is now in big trouble on our behalf, risking his life, whether it was health care professionals, hospital transporters, bus drivers, people in our camps, non-collar policemen, I'd like to say to you by the words of Rúna júl.., who would have become 75 yesterday if he had lived, blessed his memory: people like you are needed for people like me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u26	Mr. President. We have been living in unusual times in the last few weeks and months. A worldwide epidemic rages as few if any were able to foresee that there would be as devastating an all - out effect on the world as it is. Our officials in the public defenses and the hospice experts have done a great deal of work to identify the problem we have faced and put forth wise plans to deal with at any given time in the light of best available information. Overall, the central public defense system has to be said to work well and have yielded a great deal of results. At the same time, there has been an important experience that we will learn from, but much has been tested in the public defense system over the past few months in different ways. We are now for the first time in an emergency public defense and have been since the 6th of March. When the state police chief declared it, he agreed with a D.A. The first national transmission was confirmed on that day. The emergency level is still ongoing and will remain while there are limits, but the situation is determined from day to day. A global pandemic plan was updated, which is to ensure the planned and consistent response of all involved in a pandemic. Until then, a great deal of preparation had taken place. It was only mid - January that first reports of new crown virus were received, and there was no reason for any special action in this country. The growing concern for the spread of the disease, however, was still unknown. In a number of international institutions it could be concluded that spread within Europe was unlikely and that the virus would not be as dangerous as the SARS virus in 2002. By the end of January, we declared an uncertain level, although no transmission of infection had been made to the country, which included the concerted cooperation of all the operators to enable the available response programmes, the public information media, was updating all their plans. This was important, for a month later, the crisis stage was declared, with the first reported transmission in this country, working according to the earlier national programme. In addition to the above, it has to be noted that by mid-March, the European Commission proposed restrictions on unnecessary trips to the Schengen Member States. Iceland has been involved in this operation, but the situation had become so limited that all passengers had become very limited and many countries have already closed their borders. The European Commission has requested that the European Commission continue to participate in a coordinated operation on the outer border to May 15. and Iceland has decided to do it. A respectable president. Since the beginning of the epidemic in China, I've touched on a big one and how we reacted in this country. There may be two things that interest me, one on the other hand, how late international institutions seem to have come to grips with the epidemic's seriousness and how best to deal with it and how quickly the authorities were taking action, and the rapid spread of the epidemic began when information became available on the seriousness of the situation. All the steps have been taken are based on expert advice from disease sources. The U.S. Marshal's Department has directed measures, and the health system has been very successful in this situation. Somehow the nation has been united in response to the terrible disaster, and I have full faith that it will continue. Everyone deserves to be grateful for the last few weeks of hard work so that the situation is the way it is today. A respectable president. All limitations affect people. We do not take them lightly, but we need to evaluate them at a time. I'd like to back up a few of the emphasis I'm going to put into practice because of the circumstances I live in. The primary role is to protect people's life and health, but extensions of the economic effects are being carried out. Other negative effects, such as domestic violence, such as suicide attempts, economic worries, anxiety, and depression, must also be considered. All of this needs to be treated. During a meeting of the police council last week, suggestions for improvement were discussed if needed due to increased domestic violence. Enlightenment is emphasized, so those who tolerate can trust to seek help but not avoid it because of the virus and the risk of transmission. It is also necessary to provide information on which recipients are able to look for help and which children can seek help. Children are a particularly sensitive group. The police play an important role in identifying and supporting their situation, and it is important that it be taken as soon as possible into situations where violence is at risk. Home is not a safe place for everyone. It is working for travel restrictions or rather, for the next few months and for the situation. We are not an island, for we depend on both the supply and the demand of other countries and the decisions made there. We'll be in great cooperation with countries around us. More emphasis could be given than I would have to stop here. There's a lot of work to be done. The whole attitude of the people is important in these challenging issues and that the arrangement will be as powerful as it has been up to this point. [[The president calls.]] It has been admirable to watch people who have dealt with this from a balanced, rational approach, and we need to keep on doing so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u27	Mr. President. Thank you. Parliamentaries who have participated in this discussion. The discussion can include a number of common threads, first in terms of actions due to the enterprises which have been closed by the control causes. Then there's the vision for the future, i.e. that what we do now to cope with conditions also has meaning for the future. Here's what we've got. Congress has been talking about innovation, evolution, and research. Many have mentioned food production and creative articles. Hv. Members of different categories clearly realize that we will not be a community, and it is important to think about the future in the action we will take. Other social factors have been mentioned, isolation and loneliness among certain groups, especially in the elderly, domestic violence, and child - care that need full attention, not only by building up the female's family home but by increasing monitoring of the language groups, both child protection and domestic violence, as well as by the nation's spiritual health. Such a shock presents a challenge to people's spiritual health. Other factors have been noted, including Necessary change in constitution. I reiterate that I hope that next session will not be a subjugated viral epidemic but will be able to discuss the necessary changes in the constitution and many other matters that will not be given time to discuss in this winter. It was interesting as hell. Harðardóttir Oddný's been said this afternoon that this is the time of society. I agree with her. What this experience shows us about Icelandic society is, as I mentioned in my talk, how strong the basics we have, the public defense system, the health system, the school system, the whole population of the future, as well as all the people in the forward line who are infected but who are not necessarily employed within these systems, to form the shop staff who have kept things going on. School and play have been maintained as well as high school and college activities. We have an amazing wealth in our people, except for all the wealth we have in the economic and economic regimes. Then we have what Berglind Rós Magnúsdóttir, in the academic field at the University of Iceland, has called the invisible kind of care system. She wrote a good article on this during the days that appeared in the core. Perhaps it will be the lesson we have learned from this experience that the invisible, caring economy will sustain communities in times of trial, as we have seen in the past few weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u28	A respectable president. I'm here to present a case for what? The management and monitoring committee intended to enable potential candidates for the office of the President of Iceland to collect electronic recommendations. The committee was asked to adopt this case as soon as possible because of the election that might be held in the future by the candidates. Of course, we were kindly and obliged to grant the request received from the Ministry of Justice so that we could act quickly and safely. The committee discussed one of the main points. First, what kind of law would be discussed and whether we should set temporary rules or if a law should be given general authority to collect signatures electronically? Second, in what form such signatures might occur, we discussed some technical solutions to how such collections could be made safely. The one listed here does not necessarily have the pants to insert a single specific technical solution into the lyrics. In view of the short time we have to do this work, the committee immediately agreed that this would be the preferred arrangement for provisional action. I think it's a very good rule of work in times like this that we put as many of the laws we make as a preliminary law to give us a chance to learn more about it when things get better at council as well as elsewhere, because of course it is important to put on a very careful legal process and especially when it comes to election laws. Of course, it was very important to respond to the situation today. There is a requirement for collection of references to volunteer to the President of Iceland at the time of a meeting ban and the authorities are urging the public to keep a good distance from humans, and therefore it is not wise to go out in public to collect references. Hence, this way was possible. We came to the decision and agreed on the Committee to place temporary documents in laws that would give the Minister a legal authority to determine how to collect signatures electronically. So it's at the highest. Minister of Justice to determine the exact form and content of electronic signatures for the candidates for the office of the President of Iceland. This in itself is neither complicated nor extensive, but it is a very important reaction to society's present conditions in order to protect democracy but also to protect people's health. Finally, I'd like to make a decision to sign a recommendation for a president or a party offer or whatever it is, is part of a democratic process. It is the democratic involvement of the public below. Since then, it has been customary for signatures to be collected on paper, and it does not ask for any ID, it has not been the norm, thus being the safety basis for autographs or for authentications not very high. Consideration should be given to the format and setting of these measures, which are not to replace paper scripts or autographs, but should be present at the same time, not to limit the capacity of people to participate in the specific technical solutions that people choose to use at a time. But that's what I'd like to say, Mr. President, thank you. A management and monitoring committee for a very good cooperation on this matter. We were fast and we were definitely moving. I believe we have found an acceptable landing for all members of the committee, who were very pleasant at a time like this. Thank you. The board of directors and monitoring committees are very much involved in the work and since this is the bill of the Committee, I do not expect the case to return to the Committee unless it is specifically desired, but in view of the degree of agreement and solidarity on the matter, I find it unlikely.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u29	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdótir Thoranda says that this is, in fact, a positive matter and so is needed, as the situation in society is today. To collect references electronically is a normal reaction to the existing meeting ban. But it's a question, since the Minister has already put himself on the rosary after me, whether or not we'd be able to hear the details of the elections in a larger context, whether or not the action of the election has been risked, which will be ended at the end of the action that will be expected to be removed in May, because, while we'll solve the references list with this bill, the election ceremony is all left. There are two, three things I would like to mention briefly. First of all, like a what? A senator came on, is making changes temporarily. I think it is a very good rule of work that has been formed in the committees of the council that during these periods of extreme urgency, we are not making major changes in the law, knowing that they will not receive the therapy that we naturally consider to be a fundamental change. Second, I would like to mention the position we have regarding government authentication services. Islandis offers three ways of authentication, mistrust, all of which are actually more loyal than the project that has been made on the collection of proposals for presidents. It's much easier to write some pile of names on a paper list than to register people through an Ice Key, a fortified Ice Key, or an electronic ID on the island.is under a false flag. No matter which login route is selected, all will be more secure than the currently selected system. It should be noted that the lowest level of authentication provided by Island.is, only a clean and bright Ice Key, which is an identification number and password, is considered sufficiently guaranteed for collections of signatures due to the general votes of government law. I'd think it was such a groundwork that might be considered regarding the implementation of the collection of recommendation for the president's offer. Another thing I'd like to mention is that we should face the fact that by requiring authentication which is not required of paper, we are raising the threshold for a democratic participation. This is what we're going to face in the next winter when we get our bill on the global re-examination of all elections. But this is a thought - provoking point. It is important that democratic participation is as simple and as accessible as possible, otherwise it is not democratic. By opening up electronic references, we are increasing the bioavailability, but we are at the same time, requiring authentication, raising the threshold. We need to be moderate here so we don't make the system less accessible to the public. That's what I like to say. paritaprevir Ævarsdóttir Asvardóttir. We, on the board of administration and monitoring committees, changed the bill from what was originally set up, so I think the application here is the best we can get, and there is no reason to think that there's anything we can do about it, except that it's a complete monopoly on the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u30	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion, as is often said when people discuss it. But since our agent of the left green in the management board and surveillance board isn't in a house, I'd like to recall and remind you that the left green has just discussed the importance of having a secure official ID, not only in the hands of the private initiative to offer it. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé has submitted since 2017 council decrees that a minister be assigned to appoint a group for the publication of such official conditions and how much it would cost. The government will issue licenses, passports, and stuff like that. It has truly been evident recently that there is a need for safe, official electronic identification. We also have a legal warrant for the purchase of an I.D. ID. It would be interesting to hear, for the minister will step here in the pana after, whether she thinks it's something we're supposed to do, taking advantage of this right. I agree with what appears in the council arrangement. A senator and others live in the National Council of Iceland, a little in line with what has been discussed in the council, and ask a minister to ask us if he or she feels that this is an option. The proposal refers to the work of a team of specialists who are working on integrated Norwegian terms by the Norwegian Minister and is hereby suggested to take this work into account. I find the monopoly in the light of the position we are now in that we are doing this, not just because of the election ahead, but because we have and can have a sure identity on the part of the government, as I believe an occasion has indicated that we need to have. A respectable president. I just wanted to get it in. I think it's important, because although the Ice Key is all right in itself, it's fair, as it turned out. A senator before me, e.g. In the county election, then, of course, it's only there. We use the identity key in our cell phone, using it far more than the Ice Key. I just wanted to make this right because I know that there was something going on with this discussion on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u31	President wants to thank you. A senator for not extending the discussion, she thinks she's stuck with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-14-87.u32	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The management board for work on this bill. It is very important that we be able to act quickly and surely because of the conditions that have developed in our community because of the meetings and the social boundaries we have been set up. This is one of the changes we need to complete, so I'm very pleased with the work of the Committee and the bill we have here. I'd like to thank some members in particular. Of course, we look forward to the number of such new challenges for Covid-19. Some of us, like these, need to respond immediately because a showdown should have begun. I think about the access of the public to elections like this one, i.e. The election will be just as important, since the collection can still be done in writing if people choose or find ways to do so with conditions relating to human relationships but will also be electronic. I think it will be the future. I hope we will have such laws for the future. Although this is a preliminary principle, of course, we need to examine these laws and other electronic changes, and it's natural that this can be done both in the state of government and in general elections. Of course, they need to make changes that will be temporary, but others may appear sooner than they would have done, requiring changes in the interests of positive electronic administration. It is a better service to the public, and we hope to do so. I was asked about the elections myself. I've been courting the Federal Police Department and the Triads, as we've begun to call it and recognize it in general speech, to look at it, if they happen, how it would be conducted, if we need to make some changes in the opening points, and to set clear rules about it if the elections are to be at the end of June. They could happen when we are entering either the second or third phase changes depending on how the meeting rooms are lifted, as foretold today. There's something I've asked them to look at, and we're aware of this. Of course, we will fit all this emphasis if, in view of the limitations still in effect on that day, it will be. Then there's all kinds of discussions about the IDs, and I know that this discussion was conducted on the committee. I'm going to update this into a Regulation and I'm just saying that it has to be clear that everyone has access to the recommendation file and can apply that right. I don't know enough about the Norwegian ID, but I've been looking at presenting a bill on ID, which is one of the only things that are missing in our legislation. They were, in effect, a travel barrier between Schengen, to form, and would be only an international one. But this is all something that's being examined, and I thank the Commission for this fast work and expect it to continue to be good cooperation due to other changes that may be due to electronic emphasis and challenges due to Covid-19, not least.
