ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u1	Madam President. I recommend here to the Committee's list of changes in bill proposals to legalize the switch to income tax laws, No. 90/2003. It's on the roof. 1855. The bill suggests a change in 1st mg. Twenty-seven. legal on income taxes so that taxable sales can be distributed, where a share of sale value is paid with a debt theory of up to 20 years instead of seven. Using the bill, aims to facilitate generation exchange of businesses and habitats. In his review, the IRS even points out. to be authorised for distribution of goods in accordance with Article 27. income taxation has not been used much in recent years. Likely, though, its use will be increased. Having agreed with the Ministry, it seems that the majority of the items are right to respond to the comments made by the IRS, which depend on the scope of the bill. Sets the extra item to change, so that 20 years of sales will only result in profits from farms using agriculture. In addition, the more part contributes to the conversion of the bill's validation branch so that the bill is already obtained. This is followed by an appropriate adjustment. Madam President. In this connection, I just want to draw attention to the urgency of the occasion. paritaprevir Haraldur's son Benediktsson set out this bill for a second time, but its main objective was, in effect, to facilitate generation change in businesses and especially on farms. It is clear that generation change in Icelandic agriculture has often been difficult. I think with the development and approval of this bill, with the changes that have been made, i.e. that this is merely a generation change or sale of farms, but not of businesses in general, is about to become the basis for helping generation change and maintaining habitats, a goal that I think the whole body of Congress can get along well. Under the committee's view, the literature is still very clear. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson on a short notice that he intends to explain in his speech. It's under the heading "Why." And the men of Óli, the Jón of Kárason, and Jizzor, the Steindór of Valdimarsson, for a moment, for Braudur the Brynjar of Níelsson, for Bordi, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, and for Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and for Willum Þór the son of Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u2	Madam President. I recommend here to the Committee's list of changes in proposals for the synopsis of free anti-cancer therapies, but the executive of this case and 1 strategist has a problem. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir. Under the heading, they all write why. A health committee, i.e. The one standing here, boy. Councilmen Árnadóttir Kolbrún Yearningdótttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándænsdótir, Halldólda Mogensen, Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, and Luðnarður paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson agrees with this. The committee has discussed the matter and has brought in a number of visitors. Then the commission has also received reviews and memos from Iceland's Medical Insurance. The synonym suggests that a health minister be assigned to employ cancer treatments as free of charge. The committee reviewed that although the health costs of cancer may be burdensome, many other chronic and life - threatening diseases might also be involved. It was noted that diabetes treatment, many heart diseases, chronic pulmonary disease, neurological diseases, and other diseases, might be as burdensome as having a significant impact on the performance of individuals and their families. While the cost of cancer and treatment may not be controversial, it may also be related to more diseases. In particular, the consequences of treatment of chronic diseases, such as cancer, were attributed to dental health and the resulting cost. It was reported that the health insurance agency, according to records, 80% of the costs for treatment that aims to repair the disease or treatment caused by the patient. Only a registration will be considered, and it has not changed for many years. The situation of long-term chronic illness and may have full - time work rights, including those with full-term medical conditions, was also reviewed. to sick orcs and combs from medical funds. Thus, patients would need to live under financial concerns that could have a serious impact on their mental well - being, which still adds to the patient's problems. The aim of the proposal is that cancer treatments be free of charge, but as above, the same view is that treatment of other chronic and life-threatening diseases will also be free of charge. The committee feels that it is important to emphasize the goal of minimising the cost of such treatment. The Commission suggests that the proposal includes more groups of patients and that the overall cost of treatment can be reduced. According to this, the Commission suggests that the proposal will be adopted by the change in hiding a health minister to assess how to minimize the costs of patients for chronic and life-threatening diseases. It is requested that the secretary submit no later than March 1, 2021, to the General Assembly. Then the headline of the proposal is also changed to this way: Suggesting an action to minimise the costs of cancer treatment and treatment of other chronic and life-threatening diseases. The Council's proposal is to agree with the change.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u3	Madam President. I hereby recommend a proposal for a synonym to shape a policy that promotes people of a foreign background to participate in the community. Under this heading, all write under the heading "Apply. " A health committee, i.e. The one standing here, boy. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, Árnadóttir Koldröndóttir Brudsdóttir, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Halldorra Mogensen, and Orri Páll Jóhannsson, as well. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, hearing officer of the Committee, agrees with this. With the obligatory synopsis of the council, an obligatory proposal was made by the river. paritaprevir The Brjánsson - child of Brunnson is proposed to be molded for individuals and families of foreign background, with the goal of increasing mutual understanding and participation in all aspects of society. According to Economics figures, the number of immigrants in Iceland has increased constantly over the past few years. In 2012, between 8% of the population of immigrants and 14.1% of the Habitat figures since January 1, 2019, were present. Similarly, the number of immigrants from another generation has never been higher, and the percentage of the first and second generation immigrants has never been higher. It is important to consider the welfare of this growing group. Adaptation and participation in society play a key role in the well - being of immigrants, who will be assured by legal means of access to all aspects of society. In the treatment of the case, a common contemporanity was that it was important to consider the entire group of lawsuits. According to the Red Cross of Iceland, it was necessary to look to all the areas of society and to make sure that new policies rest on a well - thought - out vision with the aim of contributing to a community of equal opportunities for everyone so that there would not be a risk of developing a divided community, where immigrants take the lowest laws of society and have little chance of social mobility and of making full use of their skills, abilities and abilities. It was then noted that the United Nations has a three - year UN program for increased assistance to refugees and its safe journey to safety. There were more reviews. In the treatment of the matter, the barriers to educated immigrants were identified when it comes to job participation. When it comes to studies and to promote Icelandic education, it was necessary to promote the new population track of the Technical School and to increase space for young people with no or no Icelandic expertise. It was noted that there was a need for greater training in work areas and extra training on employment rights. Finally, it would be necessary to have access to all interpretation services. The committee agrees with her viewpoint and missed guests, suggesting that the proposal be accepted unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u4	Madam President. We've been listening to a community welfare committee foreboding, why. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir, conveys the opinion of the welfare committee regarding this proposal for molding policies that promote people of foreign origin to participate in Icelandic society. This is a very important matter, and good for which the United States Congress party is united. It is a pleasure to discuss this late evening at the end of the council, with little attention to the subject of that proposal. A manager has already done so. Iceland has never had more immigrants, and as it turned out, the number of immigrants has increased rapidly. In recent years, however, there is a natural grip on this trend, as it is now possible for the entire world. The percentage of immigrants in Iceland is very close to what happens and walks among European nations in general, about 14%. People are traveling around the world for various reasons. A majority of immigrants make their own wish, only a small part is fleeing conflict and persecution. That, however, is the ugly lot of those involved, and although we do not solve the problem here in small Iceland, we cannot ignore and ignore the trouble. According to a new report by the United Nations Refugee Fundamental Fundamental Forces, 1% of the world's population, or nearly 80 million, has had to flee their homes because of war and persecution. However, it is estimated that at least 500 million people are defined as passengers in the world, people on the move, seeking safety and better living for themselves and their immediates, looking for a secure and secure future for their children. Madam President. Iceland has the most positive attitude toward immigrants and movers in Europe, as well as a greater proportion of them want the government to grant a permit to many of the trustees. We're going down there on the top with the Irish and the Swedes. This alone may not have to be surprising when we look to our personal history. Icelanders throughout history have been well on the road, have taken back other countries, and have chosen to live there for a longer and shorter time. They know what sitting in exotic areas is all about. Usually the Icelanders have chosen it voluntarily, wanted to explore the world, and expand their horizons. But our time has come when people simply fled from poverty and vest, unemployment, and poverty. For example, at least 14,000 Icelanders to the western world of the 19th century, and the thousands of people who moved from the country to the collapse are soon more than a decade ago in search of a better share. There are over 46,000 Icelandic citizens with registered homes in foreign lands, and there are at least a few Icelandic citizens. 118 of the 193 members of the United Nations. In many places, rumors get mixed up. Therefore, we should understand the lot of those who need shelter, those who choose a sanctuary in Iceland. Madam President. Research shows that the nations that focus on and put first the careful adjustments made by immigrants to labour markets and society reap the greatest benefits. It is important that governments take the initiative in a positive community talk and adjustment - we may use that word even if it is not quite good enough - but it needs to be bisided. It's not just a adjustment, it's a adjustment, it needs to be mutual. Of course, this is where local people's attitude determines their success. We may have a long way to say that we have the opportunity to welcome immigrants, but we do some good things. We do this with our heart, and it has been very successful in organizing the arrival of refugees in many parts of the country. But we don't have a policy. In 2016 we made a projection plan on the affairs of immigrants. That plan was temporary and is now out. A policy in these matters is never to be eliminated. It's supposed to be in the process of continuous renewal and need to be alive forever. We need to stay awake. This 2016 strategy was well established. It had enormous goals, and it was prized. Sadly, it has to be said that a very limited portion of the money assigned to the project was found at work. For some things to be done, but we need to do better, not just on the side of governments and institutions, we need to improve more and more general understanding, speak for humanitarianness, speak for tolerance. Madam President. As we know so many of the countries around us, immigrants are on their feet here in Iceland. We can see this in the labour market, unemployment is, for example. More here among immigrants than the natives. The experience of other nations also shows that the remuneration of immigrants is less than that of the natives. According to the review, 2003-30% is included in similar professions. They also find themselves in a house market, and there are these around us in Iceland a tragic example of this. There's a black spot on the community, and that's the spot we need to erase. Much fewer immigrants than natives begin higher education and still fewer complete higher education. The fact is that there are immigrants with a high deletion, and there is limited support in the school system with immigrants in general. We appreciate in an inadequate way the education of immigrants and do not acknowledge professional rights. In Europe it is estimated that 22% of immigrants have an education beyond what is required in the relevant profession against 13% of the natives. Compared with our neighboring countries, we are less experienced. Impartials have been wonderful in our lives. In recent years, they have been the burden of employment, tourism, and construction. We wouldn't be at the place we are today in this building phase if it hadn't been used. There is also the fact that Sweden and Canada have developed a system for their immigrant policy and enjoy better participation in employment markets and in the community. We are to learn from the experiences of other nations. Let us work to make it part of our community covenant to be the people who know and understand the importance of immigrants. Therefore, our proposal in the United States for developing policy that promotes people of foreign origin is to share in the community for business with Icelanders. We are to be positive, open - minded, and welcome those who want to become citizens of the country and take part in their lives and jobs in Iceland. Our suggestion in the United States is a bit exhaustive, and we can see how we view these matters. It comes from high school, elementary school, and high school, and we deal with professional and welfare issues. It's our hope to the highest. A minister accepts this suggestion and processs a good policy that will be introduced to us as soon as possible. Finally, Madam President, I would like to thank you. The welfare committee for its careful work and preparation for this proposal, hopefully leading a career and being prepared to cope with life as it should be best in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u5	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón who Brjánsson for the speech by S. Thomson declares that I agree completely with what he said. However, it has been forgotten to place my name on the committee. That's why I've already asked for a print. I wish this would be true here during the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u6	A respectable president. I recommend here to the Committee to recommend a change to the proposal for action on nature agencies from a transport and environment committee. It's like the highest. The president then said the committee's opinion is on the subject. 1867 and the original motion is on it. 103 and No. 103. It's so fun that it all fits together, so I have to figure it out. The Environment and Transport Committee has dealt with the situation and has brought visitors to their home. It was based on the reviews received in 149, the legislature and the 145th legislature. The Parliamentary Directive suggests that the Environment and Resource Minister will establish a working group to evaluate the experience in the work of a nature clinic and to see if economic institutions are formally taking on more regional projects than they now have. The task force will be assigned to develop ways to strengthen the cooperation of nature clinics and institutions of the State in order to use funding for the level of knowledge and monitoring of the environment and to improve efficiency in cooperation with nature protection. For the Committee general pleasure was established in the subject of the proposal, and in particular under its objective that it was important to further improve the cooperation of a natural laboratory and the established state of the environment and resource. This could ensure a greater variety of resources in the country and can be used in a variety of ways, e.g. for the acquisition of knowledge and when natural disasters occur. The Commission agrees with this view and believes that it may involve a number of means of parishion and practicality, especially where special knowledge is widely distributed in many parts of the country. Then the Commission points out that when an assessment of the cooperation of a plant with government agencies, partnerships with institutions under the Environment and Resource Ministry could be developed and the possibility of cooperation with the university and the marine and agricultural sectors. The committee also discussed the importance of meeting the work group, including the members of the Governing Body. by the representatives who were familiar with the activities of a nature clinic, knowledge and research in the country's area, and that rural development should be consulted. The Committee considers the work force to show that change is needed, to explain the role and cooperation of institutions, the team can present such suggestions for cooperation in research, monitoring, nature protection etc. The committee feels that it is necessary to set time limits and stress that the staff will be appointed as soon as possible and suggest the change that they complete their assignment and submit the proposal to a minister prior to December 1, 2020. The committee suggests that the proposal will be accepted with the change I made. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Councilmen of Bergþór Ólason, Chairman of Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, Brastir the Brynjar of Níelsson, Gujonän, Brjánsson Brján, Katrín Friðriksson, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, Sirens Otttar son of Proppé, and Ólafur Thorthur the Þór of Gunnarsson. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason was absent from the case, but literature is under the opinion given at 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Finally, I just want to say that I am very happy that this proposal is now here for release. As noted, I've been 1st transporter. to this proposal in previous councils, and to be greatly welcomed and suggested that it be accepted here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u7	A respectable president. Here I recommend to the Committee to conduct a bill to legalize social security laws, a sum of benefits, from a minority of welfare committees. The Commission has discussed the matter and received reviews from Iceland's Common Association, the National Institutes of Development and the Institute for Development. The bill suggests a change in 69th paragraph. Law on Social Security, No. 100/2007, that the improvement of social security, cohesion, and income insurance will automatically change every year according to changes in the pay balance, although they never increase less than the price of consumer prices. According to the current Regulation 69.g. the law on social security will change the budget every year according to the budget. The decision should take into account the development of pay with the same advance of minimal increase in the index of consumer prices. The decision to make a profit is, in fact, a financial and economic minister responsible for making budgets. Although there has been a positive and higher pay check, the budget has been clearly narrowed, having the main policy to follow the index price of consumption. This has led to the failure of the country's ideal pensioner development and has led to a significant increase in the total growth in their hatchment. The bill requires the fundamental change in the work of the law that the amount of money is changing automatically according to the pay sheet published by Iceland's Economics and Economic Ministers, instead of making financial and financial contributions. In addition, it is guaranteed that in a time of extreme inflation, the ideal thing for the disability and pensioners will not get worse. The main stakeholders of society affected by the bill were generally expressed great satisfaction in its contents. The importance that the bill would not prevent the increase in pension beyond the pay and price number, e.g. for correction of human skin during the last few decades, it was the counsellor's will to do so. In this regard, it is reminded that the Council can always change the money of the law or their calculators by altering the law. In that case, they will still take annual changes according to the pay number. Thus, in view of the memory of the part, the bill does not provide for further correction on the collection of pack-crowded pensioners in the coming years. The smaller section considers the bill to be a great requisite for community insurance unless it agrees to add an extra burden to the state's budget. The wealth of the state may be estimated to increase only if the pay in the country increases beyond inflation. If pay development is positive, the state's tax returns simultaneously, and the increase in income is expected to depend on an index-based increase in the amount of dollars and other payments covered by the bill. In view of my share, it is clear that the current implementation of annual changes in the social security law is unfair ▪ the law is presented in one form, but the implementation is different. The bill guarantees a consistent implementation of the increase in the amount of social security money and the support of further nursing services in the coming years. Is it a matter of great justice that the bill succeeds? The bill was submitted. In the fall, since then, the committee has been treated. This has led to the need to update the bill's validation code. According to this, the lesser part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following change: instead of the annual ◯2020 and ◯2019, to Article 3. come on: 2021; and: 2020. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this opinion and is also considered to be a grit. Councilmen Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Árnadóttir Kolblönnadóttir, Kolbrún Mogensen and me, Guðmundur of the Ingi of Kristinsson. In this context, I would like to point out that when these laws were passed in 1997, the subject was discussed. Then was the prime minister of Davíð the son of Oddsson, and I will give him a word from his speech, with the permission of a president: ▪ Beware of what lay before you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon spoke of improvements in social security and the commitments determined today, he is correct in saying that leading men to make up the elderly have greatly welcomed this connection, as it were, by two locks. The criteria are to be paid, but there is yet another lock to be used if so, which we hope will not be over the next few years, that the pay will increase less than the price, as it has now been. Later, the talk says of reformers of social security, with the permission of a president: Therefore, it will be more effective in such a situation than in the country's earners, so the law actually has a double lock. Then, with the permission of the president, they say: Therefore... it is suggested, at the same time, that reformers will be assured that their money will never be able to go beyond the level of consumer prices if pay should develop in a way other than prices. Double lock, belt and shoulder ties for social security workers. That was 1997. Sadly, these laws were not adhered to. That's why it's being made today. Let us see that the cost has been discussed. It's not because the social security system to micro- and older citizens is down to 60 billion. The government's savings in favor of a dollar is up to 40,650 billion when taken from older citizens. As a result, taxing and these impairments do not cost the price for this government to comply with the law of the highest degree. The minister of the day and head of the Independence Party, Davíð the son of Oddsson, recommended to ensure a double lock - a double lock. But there has always been one lock, one is broken, and only the other one is used; the index, and for the sole purpose of causing the mending and taking of the social insurance patients legally elevated.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u8	A respectable president. I am so grateful that we could negotiate this matter here in 2nd. and I'm sure it's for votes. I guess this must be the first time in the history of the council, where a political party writes its case, which is, in fact, a valid right, in here. So we're fighting for existing laws in the country, 69.g. As per local laws, social security laws, are respected and maintained. We in the people's Tracks have often talked about how painful it is when legislation is made so that it can be exalted in all directions and that the laws are not clear enough. I can't at any point see that 69. g. Social security laws are in any way blurred. There is absolutely no doubt in my mind that 69 C.E. A social law says exactly what she wanted to say when she was set up here. Like what? My associate pointed out in the preceding talk on the committee opinion, in fact, was overcrowding all doubt in 1997 when the article was in place and tried to ensure the future survival of public security officials so that it would be acceptable, what was the purpose of the rule, and what it was saying. With President's permission, I'm going to read it here, it's not that long. Then you can do it. Senators here and there. The people who hopefully are observing how we try to fight for the right to the high Council. By permission of the president, it says so in the 69th grade. Social security law: social security, as well as pay Sixty-three. and sums of money. 22nd But let it be changed annually according to the budget. Their decision should take into account the salary development, to be observed, to take into account the salary development -- while it will never increase less than the prices of the index price. A respectable president. I'm quoting law No. 100/2007, 69. gr. Social Security Act, this is what it's about. The General, the Lawgiver himself, agreed to establish in an effort to have a certain rule and extramarital care for the smallest of our brothers and sisters, those who need to rely on the forwardness of social security. My fine party brother, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, said earlier, in effect, referred to the article, stipulation 69 C.E. the law on social security should be rooted in 1997. I'd like to say this, for once, that fun and a little bit better that it was really so that our honored First President and then Senator Sigfússon Sigfuelson was not quite certain that the article was clear enough when it was being placed in 1997 by the Supreme Court. Prime Minister and Chairman of the Independence Party, Davíð the son of Oddsson They had a conversation, as if so much as we would like to be here at our great General Assembly, where we would communicate and we would try to draw out the right thing if we were in doubt about something else, we make a reply, and all sorts of things to try to figure out what is going on. In this case, on December 9, 1997, at the council, Davíð Oddsson requested that it be ensured that social security will be linked with pay development unless, in the case of the development of prices beyond pay development. This is exactly what we're talking about. It should have begun beyond any doubt that if there is a higher pay development in this country than there is an index to follow pay development, as will be the previous January when the index-corrected aquired progress of social security, which is always done for years. Then it seems odd that social security workers were corrected by 3.7% while the general pay development in the country was nearly 7%. Here we clearly see an additional giant at the 29% glitter we know has taken place in the past ten years. We also know what it was like when all other classes were corrected for their failings. Although it was hard to deal with, and we missed our salary and income in the difficult year trip we went through, we probably thought so. But the only ones who have never been corrected, not one dollar, are social security professionals, disabilityrs, and poorest seniors. Can you imagine? It is difficult to live up to this, but it is even more difficult to understand why even an increase in disability would have been said to have been, for example. In January alone, 1% more than that 3.7% would have cost the government a fortune over 600 million. K. and more than 800 million. K. would have had to pay more than that to older citizens. How can anyone think of allowing himself to talk about the cost when talking about keeping the right things in the land, letting local laws say what they should say? Is it really to be so, as I announced when I delivered the bill here on October 9, 2019, and we are now discussing it here at the council, that we need to follow it like when we and the group of the people were seeking justice on behalf of older citizens and did it with the state? This cost the State more than 7 billion dollars. with interest. In fact, it has gone far away that it has been said that it would have been better to make use of the funds for something else, that some who received money may have just had enough money for so that some of the funds would have been better spent on something else. What is being said, a respectable president, when it is suggested that we violate the laws of the citizens and especially those with enough money? Worse yet, it is to break law against the poor. Rather, they should have the right to maintain the law against them. But the others? Yes, it was all right to break the law on them. But we say: It is difficult to recognize that we really need to go to court now in an effort to highlight the objective of 69 C.E. has actually been flushed down the drain, how the huskling has been completely unattainable over the past ten years rather than being followed by the salary development laid down by the law in connection with the compensation. In fact, I'm going to allow myself to faddle so far that I wouldn't be surprised if this discussion of current rights, at the high U.S. legislation of the Lawgiver, would find its way into some textbooks in the university law because it's naturally completely unique. It's really so weird that you just don't quite understand how it's been like that. Still, we are grateful that we are here and now bring in this matter, even though it would have been better if we didn't have to cancel our contract, as it is said, when everything is going on hand just before intermissions of days and sometimes weeks of fighting about what we're going to get for our return to finish our councils. I haven't been here in a long time, Mr. Honorable President, but I don't think this kind of work is very good, and I can't figure it out. But it is worth the fact that we, members of the people, agreed on our current situation of 69 C.E. Social security, which we believe the government and the government at one time have now transfected the last few years of social security. Here we are merely asking that it be followed up as a nice Davíð Oddsson repeated to the Council's president during his time in 1997: There is no reason to believe that this goal will not be followed because, as it has been observed, I have a belt and shoulder ties because if the pay development is lower than the indicator development, the social security requirements from an index increase, according to a consumer number, will not be paid for the country's pay period. And there's nothing else we're doing here but getting to put the dot over the i-i, get to follow according to current rights, get to follow the goal, get to follow up on the legal papers with the Social Security Act, No. 100/2007. There's nothing else we're asking for. I expect it to be natural, considering what we're doing in this world that we're too smart and how clever we are in legislation, that we see that there's a reason to make sure that we maintain our rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u9	A respectable president. I've had some good discussions here tonight. I propose a deportation proposal for a bill to legalize a change to social security law, No. 100/2007, money improvement. It is important that the matter is further examined and affected by the survival of the state funds and the survival of the groups who agree to the social security law, No. 100/2007, will be fully evaluated. It was noted on the welfare committee that the commitment of the sum to the remuneration rate did not necessarily result in an increased improvement over the development of funds according to current legislation. Therefore, it is suggested that the work group assigned be appointed to map the bill's influence, to assess its impact on the quality of the budget, and to see which methods are available to achieve the target targeted on the bill. In view of the extent of the case and the views attributed to the case, it is suggested that the case be referred to the social and child - care minister as a ship of work force to evaluate how to increase the clarity and awareness of the development of a coin, according to Article 69. Act on social security.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u10	Thank you. Not a senator for this contraband. I just don't understand the paradox. I just don't understand it, and I pray. A senator explaining her a little bit more to me. If we're talking about the same law, which is currently right here, it's really a choice. We just expect the minister of finance to be out of his own jurisdiction how he directs this annual correction to public security. The rule is clear, it's supposed to go with pay development, except if there's a higher level of consumption. It's now every year that all of that stuff comes up on the table. We have enough geniuses who have calculated it to us, whether it's Hagast Iceland or anyone else. So I'm gonna ask you again, "What is this supposed to mean, what?" Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u11	A respectable president. It's probably an excellent question to answer. Inga Sæland's senator. Of course, finding out that these matters are important. I heard what you were saying in your talks earlier, and I've heard these discussions too on the welfare committee. Therefore, it is important not to be the financial secretary to decide on his own but to refer to the social and child - care minister that he appoints a team to review how to increase the clarity and awareness of the development of coins according to the 69th.g. Act on social security. I'm not a lawyer, so I'm gonna leave it to this committee. I hope that by means of the appointment of this group, the correct explanation will be received and carried out on this article.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Command a team, he says, to draw out the clarity of whatever I don't understand, either. The article is clear. She's only been abused. I don't know if this group of people might get some kind of payback in addition to everything else. I can't figure it out. As long as everyone understands what's going on, and if the words are put in place, it'll go up to the 69th par. I'm not going to argue that the words are set up so that all those who read can understand what they say.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u13	A respectable president. Yeah, it's just a part of the people's team agreement for this matter, and I hope the result will be ours and they'll benefit us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u14	A respectable president. I'm not going to keep it much further, but to the Commission's review it said that the link to a pay marker would not automatically improve the improvement. I kind of want an explanation for that. Whether it is during the pay or the indicator increase, these individuals are always being assured of the best possible rise, double lock. How, in any case, can you overlook it and try to get out of the way by not guaranteeing this? No one's talking about her making sure but doing what is right. How do you like it? A senator explains that the right to which the court has been put in Article 69 should not be guaranteed and followed. Social security law, according to pay development, otherwise by index?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u15	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. Of course, this group is set up to appreciate it and to explain it as a matter of course. A senator asks me to do so. I just don't have any information about it here. I can't answer how it's gonna come out. A discussion of this subject on the committee was excellent, as the senator described it. There was also no doubt that the cost would be at present. That is why it is also very good for equipment for the interpretation of this article to be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u16	A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this much longer than I'm just gonna say. Davíð the son of Oddsson, a member of the congregation at that time, claimed this double lock. He's the one who put in a bill to secure this. I even heard it say, if I heard it correctly, after this discussion ended, and it was passed into a law that had put belts and bracelets on it. What we want to do here is to dress it up as well so that it doesn't compromise and become clear that these individuals have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for the inquiry. I am absolutely convinced that Davíð, Oddsson, the chief. former prime minister, gave many fine laws at the General Assembly, and I am absolutely convinced that what has been observed here has certainly been his will and meaning. Still, it is evident that something has washed up and turned around if it is all true. I just agree with a captain that with belts and bracelets, let's make sure that the group here assumes to be appointed will do so and get us back on course, the path set by Davíð Oddsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u18	A respectable president. If it really was to separate kingdoms and churches completely, including financially, then all the odds are that a very similar bill would be submitted, if not in all the principles of the same. However, this bill is part of the promotion of the church meeting with the so - called additional contract. I can't support that, so I can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u19	A respectable president. This is where a long, timely change is proposed, i.e. I'm putting down the price-fixing board. It is in no way consistent with consumers, free competition, or producers themselves. We make this adjustment, while we're in session, that the prices panels will normally be put down.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u20	President. The bill, as it came from a minister, says that it is no longer mandatory to cut the ears of a million lambs a year. The manager of the case, huh? paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, he handled it very well, and he wanted to keep it in. There was a middle proposal that it was still mandatory, but men could apply to not cutting their lambs. This turned down the majority of the committee. This was rejected by members of the council of the left green. Hv. paritaprevir This proposal was rejected by Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Brylflfóttir, and you ask yourself: " Why? Yes, it is because of tradition. It's because, as if under tradition, animals can be treated badly by an animal, it's some tradition that humans want to keep in here. A chief veterinarian says it's unnecessary. A chief veterinarian says it's hurting the lambs, but he still wants the left of the green holding on to it. [[The president calls.]] Iceland's animal protection relationship resisted this, a chief animal doctor has opposed it. [[The president calls.]] Greenkers in Iceland who took care of an expensive road trip objected to this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Left greens demanded that they cut the lambs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u21	Hv. A senator keeps up - to - date and does not say a single word about his own view of matters when he makes an account of his vote. It is not appropriate to use this form of speech in this way. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator directs words directly to other members of the council and their stand but does not say a single word about his own position when he recognizes his vote. In the past, the president has consulted with several members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u22	Mr. President. We'll vote against this proposal for more of the committee and believe it or not, I'll come up here to declare support to the highest level. A minister and a way he suggested it. [[Up front.]] - Yeah, it's a nice change of pace. The presence of the committee made it clear that this hurts the lambs, as well as the risk of infection. It's just not acceptable, so we'll vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u23	President. I wish there were some words I could say in this pont to influence the conclusion of this case. I don't know if it'll do any good in any way, but I hope so deeply that the senators can vote under their own convictions. I also hope that the health minister is working on this, and some kind of bill will appear from the health minister. Of course, I would have chosen to participate in it and to submit a pedestrian decree that would drive a health minister with a bill, but it did not seem to be of interest. So, the situation is that we are now paying a vote on Pirata's bill, which is about to stop punishing sick people. There should be no basis for us to take this step. This discussion has been available for a very long time. She has grown up very well in a few years. The bill thinks I'm a good worker. [[The president calls.]] I don't know what else to say. I hope this case ends up in a good way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u24	President. The Treaty states: "The penalty for drugs has to be severed. The same thing says, heading left green. That's what this bill does, turning away from the harsh penalty of drug abuse, so that if they follow their convictions, if they follow their convictions, if I don't believe that it's the conviction of members of Congress left green or that they weren't telling their voters right and true about their course? Were they not telling the truth to their platoon council, who agreed to this government covenant and going this way? You've got a death option now by accepting this right here. We'll do that, then we'll break free from the severe punishment for the use of drugs. People who are unhappy to be addicted to drugs - we stop punishing them immediately tonight, immediately afterwards. The Independence Party also has a policy that has been from at least 2015, each district convention. It says, with the permission of a president: "National problems, not law - enforcement problems, need to be viewed as health problems. " It's an offer now, you're in a dead spot.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u25	Mr. President. I'd like to join with the former United States senator Valgerður Bjarnadóttir by permission of the President: ▪ We should remember to stop hounding people who are actually ill and to focus on helping the worst in the world to live as the best way of life in the situation in which they live. The union supports the whole mind of this important and timely matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u26	A respectable president. Looks like this one's been blessed. I have to come up here and mention that all the points of this proposal, from a- to an E- force, are based on some sort of misunderstanding. There's a bit of a mix-up out there, but it's all a misunderstanding. It seems that there has been consultation with the police and the health authorities at the preparation of a report, including a report. of this matter. The case was performed sufficiently in the committee. It is defined by an adjustment form here for votes, a definition of consumption by the legal authority for Ministers. As for the d- team, the experience of measures such as consumption space is not related to whether we want to punish people for being ill. Fifth, the E team is submitted to a report and bill. The report has been made, I personally participated in creating it, and here's the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u27	A respectable president. I want the Senate to know that this is a new arrangement that is proposed to improve the situation and to meet the concerns people face in order to oppose it. To vote against these changes is to vote to vote by making the matter worse, according to those who disagree, as well as those who do, and therefore is unconvincingly. These are positive changes that I know and that everyone in this room, regardless of what they think about accepting the bill itself or not. Also, I draw attention to the fact that if 1st parr. will then be let down by the bill itself, so that when this adjustment proposal is adopted or dropped, if it is 1. g., so modified or not changed, will be dropped, which I don't realize from the reading of the screen right now, the bill itself falls. We will see how this is done. No matter what happens, this adjustment form of action meets the anxiety that some people have said would prevent their support of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u28	A respectable president. A group of people support this adjustment and support the whole affair. I sincerely hope that we will use this fine opportunity to stop punishing sick people for their addiction.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u29	V.E.G. President. Congress Supports the idea of criminal possession of drugs. Sadly, though, this bill is not good enough. Social discussions have not occurred. Conversations with police and health - care professionals have not been conducted at all. As soon as we want to look to our neighbors, who have gone far beyond our means, we listen to the professional who calls for further expansion. V.E.G. President. We can agree that a criminal policy that has not worked as it has been. So we have other ways to go. However, the treatment of this case exposes the twin - skind Pirata here at the council. Take the patch away from your eyes, my good senators. Let's win this better. Come on, let's go. Let's do it well and at the right time. The applicant party has a good practice and is therefore on red today. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u30	A respectable president. I vote with a 1 st. and the rest of the bill, despite the change to Article 1. has been inundated, for incomprehensible reasons. If people want to take a closer look, then the change was the result of taking a closer look. If you want to limit your consumption, the adjustment was required. She was to cope with their concerns. If you want a conversation in the community on this matter, I think it's official that people just don't like it. At the same time, no one comes in a pit and says, "I want to punish drug addicts, because it's such a crazy idea. There's no one to say it out loud. No one wants to punish drug addicts. So let's stop. But that means pressing the green button and accepting this matter. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u31	A respectable president. It is important to abandon penalties and emphasize support, prevention, and treatment. A meeting of the health committee stated that the Ministry of Health is developing a bill on the subject that will be discussed in a broad way, and I trust it to the highest degree. A health minister would present such a bill to the next assembly. At the committee's meetings, visitors noted that the matter was not ready to be accepted. There is no experience with the normal consumption range and the important first step. I reiterate that we will continue to work in harmony with the Constitution and reduce the penalty for consumption and improved therapeutic management. I don't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u32	President. I vote to stop punishing addicts right now. We can do that now, that's available now. If there's a change of votes up there on the board, it's available now, there's gonna be a valid law right now. Hv. A gentleman in the left green says he was confident that a health minister will put in a bill but a high - ranking person in the left of green said to me and Pirata that the Minister of Health wasn't counting on him to submit a bill like that. [[Up front.]] If it's not true, it's not true, but it was what we were told. We said, "We're ready to turn our bill into a concierge proposal that obliges a minister to submit a bill no later than at the end of the year. " We are told that the health minister does not trust to do so. Either they were telling us a lie or a reason. A senator doesn't know any better when he says this in a pentula and tries to tell the people of the world and the voters left greener. I hope that's the case, but I don't trust it because it's always to wait and wait. [[The president calls.]] It's a matter of life. I vote by tonight we stop punishing addicts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u33	A respectable president. The objective is noble and the purpose is good, but the bill is bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u34	In what way?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u35	Why don't you just let me explain my vote and you for your honored senator? It's hard to imagine that the Pirates want to vote on this defective bill on this important matter. Unfortunately, it only shows one thing: They are far more concerned with winning the propaganda war in the case, perhaps in two or three news hours, than with bringing matters to success in harmony with their own goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u36	Where's your bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u37	I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u38	The president recommends that men be at peace to account for their votes, especially if they are now making an account of their own votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u39	A respectable president. I welcome the discussion that takes place on the important objective that this bill is about, which most of us are here to agree with. In the time of the forward - growing government and the independence party, then a health minister, Kristján Júlíusson, set in motion this work, starting this step. The current government has been working with consumers and more activities on this project, so everyone is working on this important goal. So we're not voting here today whether we want to work on these goals or not; neither are we more likely to vote on which way we're going. I think we need to take the right course, and we need to find the best way to reach this important goal. I don't think this way is satisfactory and not improving, so I vote against the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u40	A respectable president. I feel that the presentation of the government's greater part has been marked by a discount on the top. The matter has been discussed for years. I've been involved in a campaign several times, and we've always been asked what candidates are about our policy and our vision is on this matter. It has been named, the results have been obtained, and the conclusion has always been that sick people should not be punished. That's what this is all about. And at last, we have the opportunity to vote with such a speech. Then I will say, 'Yes, this is in the spirit of the restoration.' This is in harmony with the emphasis on restoration. That's why I support this case because we don't punish sick people. We'll put our arms around it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u41	A respectable president. We did not want this case to be referred to the government. That's right. Yet, we have not seen any pacification of work in the process of drug abuse during the three years that have passed in this ideal period. [[Up front.]] However, we offered to change the case into a synonym, where a health minister would be assigned to cancel doses of consumption before the end of this year, submit the bill of the material. On that accord, members of the council refused to accept the greater portion. Now we're the ones who're supposed to call their freckles during this council for requiring a vote on the matter. No, we didn't want to refer to the government in an uncertain direction. We wanted to clear a timeline. We wanted commitment on the part of this government, a stronger commitment than that found in the government covenant. Obviously.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u42	Mr. President. The goal of the bill is very good, and we should resolve to help and reduce people's drug use. I agree with what's been going on here, that the discussion has developed very quickly. But it's hard to say that the bill itself has grown up. Such cases require a great deal of preparation, and there are some of the missing ones. One is, for example, that a judicial committee was not given the opportunity to turn in a review, but its role is just to monitor the development of a court of law. I wholeheartedly agree with the representatives of the bill that the present system has walked to the skin, and the drug problem is closer to me as a health problem. The bill is largely based on proposals in the top report. Minister of Kristján Þór Júlíusson, of the understudy of prison punishment for holding doses of consumption. This bill seems to be going a little further than that. We have taken many steps toward the conclusion presented in the report. These include changes in criminal proofs, registration warrants for operating the consumption space, access to clean syringe supplies and maintenance of research and prevention work. And we are far from stopping. I will continue my work at the Ministry of Justice, and I dare.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u43	A respectable president. Of course I'm saying yes. The matter is very simple; stopping punishment. It's not that complicated. It's not difficult to get information from sources that everyone here complains that there's no news of it. Everyone can send in reviews. The process has been repeated to all complaints that did not have the opportunity to handle the situation. I guess they do. The problem that is not addressed here is that those who criticize this bill simply cannot mention one physical point of the matter that is defective, not one. Please refer to some vague non-concommunications that have been discussed throughout all these years. Give me one example, a material example, on the bill, and the proposed changes that are a problem. [[The president calls.]] Make a suggestion to change it and finish it. It is so simple to stop punishment. It's very simple. [[The president calls.]] You can't fuck this up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u44	Mr. President. We have yet to take many steps to reduce emissions and increase carbon binding in this country. We now vote for one such step, which contains a positive motivation, that may be rare, for legislation to add to carbon balance by means of which the best way of doing this is likely to fall. I'm going to thank you. The Economic and Business Committee for quick work on the Committee's opinion and celebrate the payment. I see green business and the recovery of wetlands, land healing, and forestry taking their turn because of these changes in income tax laws. I encourage all members of the council in this room to be in the green of the case like myself.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u45	Mr. President. I support contributions and encouragement to some positive measures to bind carbon, such as. In forestry and healing, but I put a question mark to support public taxation in filling in a ditch and suggesting that its results are highly controversial in scientific terms. In fact, there is evidence to suggest that it can be directly harmful based on greenhouse gas views when e.g. moves older ditches. The results are being made up of a major body of ills among scientists. To support such things exposes the twin in these material. The part of the matter that focuses on this point reveals the path of people, the path of virtualness.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u46	A respectable president. First thing. The Economic and Business Committee will open up here at 30. The income taxes I suggest we clean them up and remove out-of-date regulations that allow companies to draw contributions to political parties from their income tax stocks. This subsidies on political strengths means that if a company hands the maximum political level of 550,000. In a year, the state comes and pays about 110,000 bucks. vs. It is an inheritance from an old age, and in the new legal environment of political movements, it has become a time error that simply does not have room in the setting we have formed over political parties. I had hoped that since we had all the interests of the situation in the room, all eight presidents of the political parties, we could only take this for the sake of political conflict, but something seems to be taking the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u47	A respectable president. I come up here to express my joy that this case is going to be accepted. The matter has long been the struggle of Anna Kolb Kolbrún the Year's Árnadóttir, and I welcome the position that seems to be on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u48	A respectable president. Impartials are on their way, but Iceland is not alone. We see this at the labour market salary. The experience of other nations also shows that the remuneration of immigrants is less than that of the natives. They are struggling to attend a housing market, to start higher education, and even fewer to complete higher education than are born; high school leavings and little school support. We also appreciate in inadequate ways the education of immigrants, and we do not acknowledge professional rights well. Research shows that countries that focus on and put first the careful adjustments made by immigrants to labour markets and that society reaps the greatest profit. Iceland is supposed to be one of them. It seems to me that there is widespread support to this proposal, and for that, we in the United States are grateful. I ask the U.S.R. and the whole country to notice who are not trusting to support our policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u49	A respectable president. I am very grateful that we have this case here before the council. I recommended this bill on October 10th last year. Here we are, in fact, asking only to set the point over the i-i-the-what turns to the current right. There are current laws in this country, 69 Gr. The social security laws are valid. There's nothing wrong with what she's saying. Ex-president of the Independence Party and the Supreme Court. The prime minister, Davíð Oddsson, arrived in 1997 with this article in which he repeated that there would be no compromise that there would always be a social security staff that would enjoy the doubt, whether in terms of a higher pay sheet or a general development in the land of verses of consumers. There's no difference that this has actually been a complete disintegration of the principle's main objective, it's been aggressive over the past few years. Since 2010, the abuse of this article has resulted in 29% of our vastest social group. [[The president calls.]] That's why I challenge all of you now to be on our side and to show by our actions that we respect valid people. Well, we're the lawgiver.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u50	A respectable president. More than 20 years ago, the Lawgiver's will was clear about how we should look for the interests of older citizens and disability. We were to follow the salary development if it was more practical, if not according to the index price of consumers. But we haven't done this for 23 years. As a result, much of the poor and a certain percentage of the elderly live in poverty, and some are very poor. Let's change it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u51	A respectable president. In my work on a budget board, where annual updates are submitted to the interest of an eligible pensioner according to the 69th gross. Social security, I only watch how pay development is, how index development is to be done, and how the update according to page 69.g. is and has been. I asked the General Information Service for a summary of how the trend has been, how the index has been, and what remuneration has been. I compared this, and the conclusion is that since the law was accepted, there have been more than 50% of the mending. Social security bills should be in accordance with 69.3.3. to be more than 50% higher than it is if the law had been applied because it is not adjusted afterwards according to real index development or pay development. It's just based on projections at the beginning of the year, not on how evolution really is. This is where the problem is solved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u52	President. These things are always being changed when it comes to micro-piercing. In the years following a collapse, we saw that there was always a disintegration so that they could not get this rise. In fact, over a certain period of time, tens of millions of debts were raised to the disability of this country. They did not receive laws that should have been passed because they were decommissioned. Does anyone think that this will be done when it comes to the salary of members of Congress? Yes, we have, what, have we ever taken our pay off? What has it often been done about disability, to keep them out of the way? Clearly, it doesn't matter whether you're Jón or Pastor Jón. They're thinking about their business here, but this government has shown it over and over and over again that she's not looking after the interests of disability in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u53	Mr. President. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of approval for the continuation of General Assembly meetings according to Article 1. 23rd par. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to agree that meetings will be postponed from 29 June 2020 or later, if necessary, to August 27, 2020. The motion is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u54	A respectable president. So this is the first vote of four on transport, and I'm going to come up here once in order to thank the U.S. I think we all agree that it's good. All I want to do is thank you for the Environment and Transport Committee, head of the Management Board, Líneik Anna, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, and Vilhjálmur Árnason, who were part of a special team, and the Committee for the whole and Congress Committee for a wonderful work on complex solutions. It pleases my little heart or my heart to see everything green here tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u55	Despite those beautiful words, the highest. Ministers must remind the members of the council that it is proper to address the full name even if they are members of a party.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u56	President. What a joyful time this is! All of us can be proud and happy that we have experienced that time! But here we are seeing an enormous growth in transport in the capital area. I'm proud to be part of this. I'm just saying, congratulations Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u57	A respectable president. At last, we finally see real improvements in the capital area, improvements in transportation, and increases the individual's freedom of choice. We have this step here to improve the quality of life in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u58	Mr. President. It is very happy that we are now voting on this matter, for, as we have seen, this will mean much to the inhabitants of the capital area. We begin to see much more intensive public transport, and most important, it will be of great importance when it comes to climate issues and we can be more effective where diversity and environmental transport are available. So I'm glad to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u59	A respectable president. We'll vote for a change in pharmaceutical law. The motion suggests that there is a loss of divorce on the Committee to Medicinal Products Hospital. This is wise, but normally, a minister will turn to his key institutions and the nature of the case according to the court the minister will consult a land hospital, for the decisions of the Committee will usually be relevant to the hospital. Where there is a national committee, ministers can seek elsewhere, e.g. to the hospital in Akureyri or other institutions. This is a good change. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. A top-secret and educational committee for good work in this important matter, which is about increasing transparency in national and national communication, and preventing excessive compression of the land on the hands of few people. If we're ever going to vote for a public interest right here in this room, it's when we vote on such a case that the overwhelming majority of the people have called after the General Assembly. That's what we're doing here. I say yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u61	Mr. President. We in the Central Party will vote against this bill. The Member State's European Commission directive, which is currently in its legality, has not been implemented in the EEA Convention and is being reviewed in the field of the EEA and EFTA countries, and therefore the National Competent Guidelines may still be modified. This has not produced a national obligation for us Icelanders to implement this directive. The directive's regulations are not valid within the EU until this year, and some of them are not until 2023 and 2024. The entire group of languages is fragile, silent, and this law doesn't make up for it. There's no focal point for a whole pack of compromises. These changes are premature, and the representatives of the industry and rural governments have suggested that the legalization of this directive be postponed. Overexpensive and unveiled sources are also found in the laws for Ministers to further expand in Regulation, and we feel that this is too much and extensive for ministers. We're saying no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u62	President. In this case, what has been done should be taken out, that bringing fishing equipment to the land needs to be by law, as they have been disinfecting it in Keflavík or before entering the country. Middle-class officials who talk so much about disease prevention decided not to make a comment about this in the progress of the Commission, although it would be very clear that this is a time forindustry to take place in the river itself or before the equipment goes into the rivers. I think it's important that this be revealed because the same members of the Committee, why. Councilmen, want to justify the continuing earmarks, cutting in the ears of a million lambs a year, for disease prevention reasons, which are to be authorized to get fishing equipment back to the river instead of stopping it at borders. It is important that the people of the country know of these double - colored and disease prevention errors.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u63	Mr. President. The central category has supported most of the economic proposals of the government in order to minimize the damage the virus epidemic has caused. Similarly, the government has rejected all the proposals of the Central Party and the opposition that show the pointlessness of offering suggestions. Well, that's a pretty word to talk about, isn't it? The government's decision is slow and evil. Meanwhile, precious time and value have been lost. The bill doesn't go through a bad prognosis. In a new national economy, unemployment is expected to occur in an average of 8.2% during 2020. The forecast is the greatest unemployment ever measured within a year of the republican history. There's still a lot of uncertainty about the rest. The big project is increasing. That's where the government's out of control. The middle party doesn't vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u64	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion from the employment board on the bill to correct the change in the package travel laws and the interconnected travel proposals and laws of state responsibilities (the trust fund). The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted with the representatives of the Department of pro and innovation and Attorney Þórður Bogason. The committee received reviews of the matter from the Councils and the Association for Travellers. The bill suggests that there will be a special fund, a travel guarantee fund, which is designed to deal specifically with the financial problems of a travel agency by borrowing travel agencies for reimbursement to consumers for off-packing or canceling because of a pandemic of the Korean virus. The Commission suggests several changes to the bill, having agreed with the Directorates and the Ministry of Procreation. In order to make the operation more efficient and simpler, it is suggested that travel responsibilities be loaned to travel agencies to pay reimburse consumers for off-packing or unbooking packages rather than for tourists to apply for their own reimbursement. In this way there will be a significant decrease in the number of costs to the tourism agency, which will continue to be the responsibility of the companies who sell packages and carry out their legal duties toward consumers. The nature of the procedure remains the same, giving travel agencies loans to pay legal reimbursement to consumers. However, a travel agency will not take a particular position on the individual traveller's requirement, and it is likely that the procedure will become more efficient and that less time will be taking over the amount of money that is going to be made to an enterprise. The loan's financial resources will depend on the amount of cash paid by each travel agency, or, depending on the type of money you are applying for, which will depend on the financial needs of your travel agency. But a loan's financial sum can never exceed the sum of the available reimbursement requirements for tourists. At the time of the application for loan, travel agencies will provide information on the standing remuneration requirements and confirm that the quality of the loan level will include the need for their financial resources for the next 12◯18 months. The funds provided here include government assistance in the sense of 61 st. The EEA Convention, as per European Environment Agency legislation, No. 2/1993. As a result of the significant economic consequences of the Republic of Korea, there is a special issue of government support authorised this year that falls within this framework. On this basis it is permitted to lend loans on subsidies to enterprises which meet certain conditions. Because of the narrow time frame in which this case has been worked, the Commission suggests that growth and the conditions of an enterprise must meet in order to obtain a loan in a Minister's Regulation. Based on the interest chart of the EFTA Monitoring Centre and the conditions of the above, there will be a provision for temporary assistance. The Court's rights are directed to the Ministry that the Regulation will be submitted as soon as possible after the bill is passed as a law so that the action will be carried out as early as the end of the budget for many travel agencies at this time. The committee proposes a timemark of 1st par. will be extended by one month where some disorder can continue to travel after the original time point of the bill. The committee discussed whether the terms of loan should be set in a similar way to those performed in other laws relating to pandemic crown virus, including the U.S.A. In that companies were forbidden to pay interest over a particular period, that employees' wages were fixed at the highest level, and that companies are not associated with those who use the so-called tax industry to avoid tax pay that should properly go to the Icelandic state. The committee claims that with the bill, consumer problems are mainly under way. The amount of money involved is intended solely for reimbursement for a decommissioned or canceled package. The Commission specifically states that one part of its adjustment involves a warrant allowing an individual to be misinformed or insufficient in the application of intentional failure and a travel agency will be able to call for confirmation of how a loan level has been spent. Hence, the travel agencies that will be applying for loans will have to show the following how the loans were spent and whether the amount of money was in harmony with their financial needs. The Commission has a right to the changes proposed here are temporary resources and not intended to interfere with the rights of consumers already found in the package travel laws and interconnected transport forms. Ólafur Isleus Ísleifsson, ha. A senator who is signing this opinion according to a 4 mg source. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. In view of all of this, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Under these publications. Senator Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Elíasdóttir Friið Furfjörður Elisdóttir, Njáll Trausti Kristjánnsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðertir, Njálíri Friiðtir Friðbertsson, and Resak Brynjólfsdóttir Brjörðurfjörnóttir. In advance, there's a what. Councilmen Sigurður Jónsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, and Jón Þór Ólafsson My case is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u65	Mr. President. I was going to ask about one point about these packages and payments that I am interested in getting information about. Now, according to the bill, a tourist can apply for these reimbursements and organisers, seemed to me, can also get a refund from the fund. What I'm interested in is knowing and information about is how it goes with a credit card company. The responsibility of credit card companies is now quite high on many of these trips, and if credit card money is paid, you can often demand payment from the company itself, i.e. The credit card company. What's the involvement of this fund's responsibility for credit card companies? Are they taking responsibility from companies to this fund? Or how can this be understood?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The responsibility of credit card companies is not canceled that I know best. They naturally live up to their responsibilities, as stated in their rule, and walking according to what they have agreed to do. But on its interaction with this bill there's nothing specifically stated, it's a special firm, and we're not going into it that way. I know that in the first case, which was moved and then pulled back, they were called to companies with credit cards and they had not necessarily come to that responsibility because the companies had either paid off their trips or gave a credit card, and it had not been particularly trying. I've been unable to confirm how things have worked out for credit card companies now that this later issue came up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u67	I'm gonna have to take this time, okay? A senator, to ask about this, because this is important. There's 4.5 billion under there. If credit card companies are responsible for some of this and people are supposed to be able to ask them to pay their way through their maps, I feel responsible for the financial resources to start taking this responsibility for them. That's what I'm looking for. I can't accept this bill at all if that's the meaning, if I understand correctly, which I may not have studied at all. It's the problem of taking a case so fast that something like that can go away. I'm just asking about this: What's the responsibility of the credit card companies? Is the State taking on the responsibility of these companies? How's the interaction between us? I think it's dangerous, I think. I want answers to this. I can't, until I've got reliable answers, accept the government's responsibility for these big business companies, which are guaranteed in back and for most of the time. I'm against the government funds taking on this responsibility, absolutely.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u68	A respectable president. Yes, as this proposal puts it, it's natural for the tourism companies to take responsibility for their sale. That's what they're doing on the bill. We're not taking responsibility from the credit card companies. They're totally independent companies who take responsibility for their business and we're not going into that business directly. Above all, it is the responsibility of the tourism companies to deliver on the trips they have sold to their customers. They cannot deliver their responsibilities to the credit card companies. This is a prior trust fund, which is just cleaning up when the tourism companies do not live up to their status, and they do not continue to be referred to credit cards companies, for they are naturally taking care of their equal customers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u69	I'm not holding up Congress at all, not at all. I'm just going to state that I am fully aware that the tourism companies selling trips have the ultimate responsibility. You're absolutely right. They have the ultimate responsibility. I'm only talking about that if this responsibility doesn't stumble, i.e. If a travel service business goes down, who's responsible? Is it this one? Of course, he will if he pays the traveller. But if there's a responsibility at the credit card company, I'll put a question mark on it if the government fund is going to take that responsibility. That's what I'm talking about. I know, of course, that the dealer is responsible for the final responsibility, but if he's not around anymore, I'm worried about this. I'm not going to delay the council any more. That's just my comment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u70	Mr. President. Hv. The General and Education Committee has discussed the bill and has brought visitors to their homes and has received comments as outlined in a committee study. We discussed general aspects of the case, but it is a bill that is moved to the agreement of the state and the National Church from last year, which included improvements in church and State agreements from 1997. So we are actually talking about steps toward highlighting further separation between Church and State, the bill being intended to take a step in that direction. Two specific points are specifically mentioned in the members of the majority of the section for special consideration. On the one hand, be sure to make sure that, in a discussion of Article 6. The bill, which pertains to a change in churchyards law, etc., No. 36/1993 raised questions about whether these changes had been adequately agreed with the others and with these religions and societies. In this case, the arrangement that has been cleared will be removed from the cemetery or to the cemetery to cover the expenses of priestly services or the services of the directors of religious and principles for funerals. It would seem unnatural for this or this financial support to come through the cemetery, and though more of the committees do not suggest a change in the bill on this matter, we say in a committee list that it is proper to consider that in this matter, and the Ministry of Justice considered how to cut down payment on congregations and religions because of the cost. But in other words, a change in the bill is not proposed in this regard. On the one hand, there was another thing that we discussed in the Committee that concerned the question of whether administrative law should continue to apply to the church's inner affairs. To make a long story short, however, the majority of the committee concluded that it was a normal step toward further separating between Church and State from the obligation to cancel the administrative law of the church's internal affairs. The third point that we considered the situation today due to the specific Covid situation that has not been established at regular times has not been established. A greater part of the Committee suggests that for this reason a change in the bill will be made so that there will be a new provision for temporaryity as a result of the application of church council allowed to set temporary procedures and registrations with the approval of the Synod's president. These rules and registrations should apply to the next council meeting, however, no longer than six months from the day the president of the Synod agrees with them. Protocols and registrations shall be signed by the President of the Council and the President of the Council, and published in the same manner as the Council's Regulation. However, since this is a response to an unusual temporary situation that must be addressed, we suggest that this provisional principle be removed at the next year's convention, i.e. 1 January 2021. Under this view, more part of the General and Education Committee is written, Páll Magnússon, chairman of the Committee, Árnadóttir Kolb Kolbrún Yearnad, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Silja Þóra Árnadóttir, and Steinunnananadótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u71	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion on the bill to legalize a wide range of agricultural and food laws because of simple regulations and management practices, from a greater part of the employment board: The Commission has discussed the matter and received a number of parties, as well as information from Iceland's Animal Medical Association, Food Institute, Dr. Ólafur R. Dýrmundsson, National Relation and Former Market Guard, Sigurður Sigurðarson, a veterinarian and former vice president of the National Commission and the National Vegetation Society of the United States. The bill suggests some changes in food and agriculture laws, with the goal of simplifying regulations and administration. Moreover, it is suggested that a total of 12 courses of law be put out of existence. If this bill becomes a law, tasks will be transferred either within the administration; they will be simplified or reduced to more efficient and targeted management. The job environment will be relieved by a simple process in the working environment and by deduction of registration and notification in certain cases. According to a report on the bill, when it was prepared, extensive consultations were made with key stakeholders and agencies of the Ministry, such as Food Institute, Iceland's Basis, and its subsidiary, the Association of Industrial Affairs, Business Organization, and Service. Other aspects of the bill's content and objective are referred to in a series of articles. With 1 st. The bill is submitted to the change of 6th paragraph. the legislation on veterinary surgeons and health care in animals to authorise a permission to work as a veterinarian will be obtained from a minister to the Food Institute, where the veterinarian operates. The secretary will give further instructions on the granting of the permit in the Regulation. Iceland's Animal Medical Association and Food Institute put it in their comments so that with simple licences for veterinary surgeons, i.e. that permission teams will be reassigned to the Food Agency without the permission of the Ministry will be clear that a professional assessment by a chief animal surgeon will be conducted. The majority of these points to the general reference in animal and health care legislation to the role of the Food Agency regardless of whether there is a head animal doctor or another member of the organisation who has a role but no part of the law is specifically referred to by a chief animal physician. With 1 st. is also proposed to make this change to page 6. legal for veterinary surgeons and health care in animals to enforce a law that obliges veterinary surgeons to sign an oath for a veterinarian's license. In his review of the proposal, a food agency makes a comment that suggests that the experience shows that signed letters have a high moral value and are taken seriously by those who join them. The majority agree with their views and therefore suggest that the animal doctors remain obliged to sign an oath on the leave to veterinarians in the country. In handling the case for the Commission, the Ministry suggested that similar changes be made to Article 10. The law says you're on the 6th floor. Theirs, by replacing the Minister of Food, granting animal doctors permission to call themselves experts and work in this country. The majority agree with that view and suggest a change. With a count of 9. it is suggested that laws on animal well-being be canceled to inform the EEA about trap hunting in memory. Such fishing is allowed on the 21st floor. laws on animal protection as part of organized measures to control the memory of the population that is permitted according to laws on protection, peace and fishing on wild birds and wild mammals. In the case of the guests before the committee, it was noted that the breakdown of the reporting warrants for trap fishing would need to be considered in the context of a law allowing such fishing. Emphasis was placed on the loss of the source and other methods used to curb the smaller population. It was noted that the law on the welfare of animals includes rules that highlight neither the fishing of wild animals nor the destruction of pests that cause needless mutilation or pain. Then, according to the Food Agency, if it is general opinion that legal authority must be granted to such measures, it is necessary to ensure that some government or rural development. So the majority suggest that the EEA continues to inform the EEA about trap hunting at minutes. With V. chapter of the bill, there is a difference. suggest that it be ostensible to the earmarks of lambs but to choose farm owners to leave their lambs to the point where they are earmarked by the end of the 12th week of summer, as per 1 mg. Sixty-three. law, requisition, mountain cover, etc. At the same time, the market committee will be put down and the market guards will be assigned to rule in line conflicts. A great debate within the Committee was created for the suggestions presented in section V, particularly for removal of the earmarks of lambs. There were conflicting opinions in the reviews and among the guests who presented the committee. In particular, the importance of maintaining earmarking was shown to be related to the markets of sheep to sheep's disease prevention and protection from spread of infectious diseases. In the case of the matter, it was stated that the National Association of Sheep and the National Council of Iceland had met up with a joint review of this on government consultations. It said that the organization did not comment on the obligation to drop the earmarks of lambs, but believe that it would be reasonable to assume that in a regulation on the meaning of livestock, both animals would be marked in both ears if they were not earmarked. The label would be made with a printed logo and within 30 days of birth. Then a representative of the Lands Association of Sheep said that after the bill was submitted, there was some discussion. There were ideas of other implementations so that it was permitted to give an exception to ear extraction in certain cases. The more part of it feels that it is not the time for a well - thought - out decision to cancel the earmarks of lambs and thus suggest that the laws of the law remain unchanged. In the treatment of the case for the Commission it was noted that it would be desirable to postpone until one year, to adopt a set of regulations that require public information on the category of enterprises based on their performance as per official food control, i.e. both food management and local health monitoring areas but according to the rules of law No. 33/2018, the change in food law, animal doctors and health care laws to animals and organic agrienvironment schemes, was expected to begin on January 1, 2021. The Ministry asked for medical surveillance to determine if such publication is practical. The Ministry would have received a common response to health monitoring areas in Iceland, which is as follows: It is unrealistic to initiate public release on January 1, 2021, unless such a system will be ready for a good time, a review and a presentation process has been undertaken by all the benefit-care professionals, including rural health monitoring, so it can be implemented. With the evidence that a dose is being prepared in addition to a coordinated monitoring system, it is essential for publication to begin a greater proportion of the material for the change in the introduction of official publication on January 1, 2022, instead of January 1, 2021. The Commission's proposals, other than those mentioned above, are technical and not intended to exert material influence. According to the above, the greater part contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Sigurður Páll Jónsson, who was absent from the case, signed this opinion in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, chairman of the Committee, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffnsdóttir, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Brynjólfsdóttir Bryurfjörður, Sigurður Páll Jónsson and Ásmundur Friðriksson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u72	President. A discussion was created in the Committee on ear extraction. Just so you know, a chief animal doctor said that the ears of a million lambs per year were unneeded. There are other ways to go, like cot. The speaker of the case said that the earmark is an unnecessary suffering of a million lambs a year. That's not a question. The SEC said the chief animal doctor didn't make it, that's not a question. If the lambs cross a fence or are found on a sign, they are plowed. The most important thing on the committee was that they wanted to hold on to this because of tradition. Then it is just the same reasoning as when certain slaughtering methods are carried out on some religious basis, where animals are cut throats and bleeding out. It's not legal in Iceland because we don't want to. But now some people want to keep to the old limit and hurt an unnecessary million lambs a year. I wish this would be very clear. A minister gives a bill for making a statement in the law today that the lambs should be earmarked by the end of the 12th week of the summer. The minister suggests that this bill allows earmarks of lambs to be earmarked at the end of the 12th week of summer. One minister suggested that it be no longer necessary to cut into these millions of lambs each year. I know why. A senator and spokesman for the case, Ásmundur Friðriksson, wanted to keep it as a minister had it, but more of the committees of pigs bowed down both the minister and the spokesman, wanting to hold their duty to make earmarks. A chief animal doctor made it perfectly clear that it was unnecessary, injured a million lambs a year. In Iceland and Iceland's Association of Greenkers, both animal rights organization said that it was the least necessary for the obligation to be no longer inside. But those who agreed to this committee opinion, including Councilmen left green, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Brylflfóttir, insisted that it was no longer an obligation to cut off the lambs, that the duty be kept. I just wanted this to be clear. I told them on the Committee that if this were the result, the people would know that the animal protection concept would be allowed to depart from the left green on this matter. Rather, they want to hold down their boundaries and obligations. Then people need to know because this is not compatible with left green policy. The minister proposes to remove the obligation to cut the lambs. The left green member of the Committee demands, contrary to the will of the minister and spokesman of the case, both of which are independent men, to continue to cut into a million lambs each year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u73	A respectable president. In view of my circumstances, I'm going to try to keep it very short. There is something else that can be said to be said, but there is also a measure of dissatisfaction. that much of the Committee changed the Minister's bill to mean that there is now a bill and that the majority of the section is now far away from animal protection. I'm sorry, and I have to declare a lot of disappointment in this regard, in connection with the well - being of animals. There are very strange comments and changes that the majority of the Committee under the leadership of the Left Green puts out here. I'd also like to point out that I have a change in the agricultural prices committee that's changing the period of command from four to two years. That's good and good. It is a good change if you want to live with a prices committee, but in my opinion, and in our restoration, the awards Committee provides a complete set of time errors and, whether it is a requirement for normal, transparent competition or food freedom, as we would like to have it elsewhere. According to this, there are things to agree with, but these are the big things that I consider to be of no consequence to support the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u74	Mr. President. I recommend a board of members with a bill-change proposal to legalize health insurance legislation, with subsequent changes in access to psychology services and other clinical interview therapy, as the bill called. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a group of fine visitors as well as some reports. The comments received by the Committee, as well as from members of the Committee, were generally expressed with great joy in the subject. That the bill stands over a third of the world's councils across the council. So it may be that there is a clear desire to show that the council can meet for an important improvement and deal with good things in a financial and professional way. The bill suggests that public psychology services, as well as other comparable services, will be dropped under the payment system of health insurance in Iceland. It has long been called for psychiatric health benefits, and it is a primary factor. In view of the Committee, progress is made in mental health matters by providing spiritual health services on the same basis as other health care services are provided. In the treatment of the case before the commission, there was a view of the rendering of Article 1. The bill was not clear enough about the type of treatment that depended on the directive and that a better identification of who was bearable would be required to perform the services being performed by the bill. Point One, par. to ◯ Other clinical interviews were open and not guaranteed that such treatment was based on cross-checked and clinical guidelines. It would be important that the State's subsidies only be used for treatments based on techniques that were shown to be effective in handling and prophylaxis due to different conditions. It was noted that according to the surgeon's instructions, psychological treatment and benefit - tested treatment were discussed, but not clinical treatment. The use of empirical therapy was based on professional scientific research and methods that would have been shown to be successful. The committee agrees with the above views and suggests a change in wording of 1. mg. 1st par. the bill that non-active total therapy replaces clinical interview. The change in the procedure is then proposed only to the treatment provided by a healthcare professional. This ensures that credit parties are restricted to services performed by a health - care provider who has been granted the land surgeon's license to use the legal name of the health profession, such as Article 3. the management of health care professionals, including psychologists, social workers, mental - health professionals, and mental - health professionals. By opening up the services of more professionals than the psychologists in the bill, they have the right viewpoints to consider primarily the needs of those in mental resources and to promote the freedom of choice to obtain the appropriate systemic treatment based on scientific techniques. This is in accordance with the viewpoint of an individualised approach, which is designed to increase access to the mental health system regardless of the economy or circumstances. It may also be expected to contribute to long-term recovery and to reduce the use of antipsychotics. The 2nd issue, 1st. 1st par. It should be noted that the health insurance facility can separate expert certificates, family doctors or specialist physicians from the need for treatment. In view of this committee's opinion, who may be considered to be a specialist in the sense of the directive, it is suggested that medical doctors, family doctors, and specialists be taken into consideration. In addition, this term is more consistent with the health insurance law. In addition, the Committee suggests that the bill's validation laws will be changed to January 1, 2021; for the financial and financial expenditures will be expected to result. The Commission requested a memo from Iceland's Medical Insurance on State Fund Assessment of the Changes proposed by the bill. Follow up information on the estimated costs in the Committee to Re-Elect. It will be assumed that while the cost of changing according to the bill, in the long run they will save large sums of money and prevent needless suffering from people with mental health problems. By 2019 the total government's budget is estimated to improve as a result of spiritual disability by 19 billion dollars. and believe that they can more than double in the next decade. Although the new programme being targeted by the bill would prevent only a small rate of disability rates, large amounts of money are being saved. In addition, it may be expected that it will reduce the impact of mental illness on people's job opportunities, their performance will be increased, the number of sick days will be fewer, etc. The report on the bill shows that after 18 years of age individuals do not have the same right to subsidies as students do to strengthen them to attend psychological services and their peers at a workforce, e.g. ... froma classmate. It should then be considered that under the current law, Iceland's health insurance insurance is not permitted to negotiate psychotherapy and other advanced therapys. Thus, psychological services in the labs of an independent acting professional have been without official support for those who have needed the ministry. According to the surgeon's guidelines, the most advanced psychological treatment should be the first available option for anxiety, depression, and other psychological disorders. Bioavailability of psychiatric care is essential when early detection of psychoses and insures of appropriate treatment. By making a comprehensive treatment practical for those who need to be treated, the root of the problem is attacked and prevented or significantly reduced. In addition to what is stated in a bill with the bill, the Committee brings attention to and welcomes the legal reform that the bill involves for people who need to rely on disability benefits for furthering and thus fail to earn the right to subsidies of psychotherapy by membership in trade union societies, such as those who are active in a labour market. According to this, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with a change made in which the committee can be seen. Under the heading, everyone writes why. General welfare Committee, i.e. The one that stands here, the chairman and executive, Anna Kolb Kolbrún Year's Árnadóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándótir, Halldorra Mogensen, Orri Jóhannsson, and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson paritaprevir Resurrected and an officer of the hearing is acceptable to this opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u75	A respectable president. It may not be a traditional answer, but I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. well-being committees and all groups and all transporters who have not taken sides in this important matter that I believe is much of a future, longer, but also more recently. It may be said that this is also a typical case of Covid, that we are a little worried and prudent. If we listen to some specialists that we should especially do in these times, we are predicting a great deal of spiritual stress and anxiety disorder. In the fall. We are doing this in an effort to avoid costs in the next year and in the lives of people, especially young people who do not have the funds for unions to attend or who have built up some money to seek out psychological help. I especially want to thank the Chairman of the Committee, what. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir, but also the former chairman of the Committee, since this is the second time the case has been dealt with, and the work has been done very well. Former Chairman of the Committee, what? paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, also worked very hard at this. I have to say that the matter has changed positively, and I strongly support the change proposed by the committee in place of the words'supposed to a clinical interview'; and a medical specialist, a family physician, or a specialist; or a specialist; a highly-tested global treatment; and a health care professional; and a health care professional; or a specialist; or a specialist, a specialist. I support these changes, and I would like to use this opportunity to show that the council can work in opposite categories. Yes, the council can do just a little bit of modern work. We work long and short - term, showing this perspective, but let's show that it's good to work here at a council when we see things like this get first. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for answering. I agree completely, completely agree with her, and thank her and the members of the council for the initiative on this matter and for having invited and led this large group of senators here on this matter together because it is incredibly important. I think with the agreement and because all the committees agree to take it out of the committee, we are taking giant steps into the future when, at any level, we recognize a mental problem, to the same degree as a physical problem. Then we have only one step left, i.e. to make your teeth part of your body. Well, then we're quite far. But this is at least a giant step we're taking here, acknowledging that the mind and body go together. I would therefore like to thank the delegates for the initiative, please. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, thanking the Commission for her cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u77	A respectable president. I simply wanted to come up here to celebrate the appearance of this matter being passed during this council. How important it is that psychological services get under medical care! This justice has been fought for a long time. I believe that it will be a step in equality, as discussed in the discussion, that spiritual diseases will be evaluated to the same extent that physical diseases and will be supported by the public system. I also think that this is an enormous amount of equality in the sense that income - bearing groups will now have access to services that all equally have not been available for them. Of course, we know that more is needed. I thank you for taking the initiative to put the matter first and to work so hard on it. I'd like to thank you too. The welfare committee for the success of the situation and for teaming up to recommend that the case be agreed. It's a big step, and it's important. I believe it will be successful, and for our good, for the good of the people. I would also like to point out that this is an important step in advancing our obligation to provide all our citizens with the right to the best possible health. Its access to a psychological service at an affordable price is part of our right to enjoy the best possible health. I believe this is an enormous step in making up for the relapse that has been in the way Iceland's State handles our right to the best possible health. In recent years, we have not done well enough to improve health care. We have not had good justification for not adding to health care. That's at least Steps toward improving health care in Iceland and should therefore be welcomed. That's a lot of justice, and I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u78	A respectable president. It's one of the good things I've got up for my whole mind, so I'm on the committee's opinion. It is long time for us to deal with mental problems and to take them into the health insurance system, such as any other problem that needs to be solved. We also need to take a look at ourselves and take a better position in matters of mental health for children who are not currently in good shape at least in a certain group of children. That's embarrassing us. But obviously we are taking the right step, and we are on the right path. I believe that we will see to it now that all of them get the services they need when they need it, that they can approach her whether they can afford it or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u79	President. I spent a long time with my computer trying to find words to describe how important this matter is and how important it is to fantasize the inhuman punishment policy that has been at people for ten years and the suffering the policy has caused. Human life has been lost, and the cost for society has been high. I know, or think I know, that more of the senators sees this, sees that we're on the wrong path and that we're supposed to change our course. I also believe that, after my conversations with many members of the council and after the discussions that have taken place on the welfare committee, many members of the council are supporting the execution of punishments in the foundation but would have wanted to see a health minister work the bill in a broad agreement rather than accepting the bill Pirata. But the greater part wanted to refer this important bill to the government of Pirata. That's the conclusion that Pirantar and I couldn't accept. This is because with references there, there is no guarantee that the government will do something about it. The removal of punishments against drug addicts is in the Treaty of this government. But now, at the end of the second-last year of this terms, there is no need for such plans for the government. Understandably, then, we were not optimistic about the government's taking up this human rights issue by themselves, and although I have heard some vague rumor that some matter is coming from a health minister, it is not in hand to give up our business. We felt that it was very important to meet those members of the council who would have preferred a different way of delinquency with greater access to the government and the interests of the interests of the State. We want this important issue to be accomplished, and that is why we proposed a compromise proposal to submit, in turn, a synonym on the same subject. By means of it, the Council of Health would assign a bill of criminal possession of drugs for the next fall. Consuming is, of course, a more profound procedure than a reference to the government, which includes a clear requirement for a minister to provide a bill within a particular period of time. We were ready to go that way. We had a Senate resolution ready for backup. Sadly, though, that reconciliation proposal was thrown out of the table without any further debate as to how the synonym might look. Pirats and I suggested the approach to the minister to bring a bill and thus meet the concern of the senators of the greater part without killing our business. But there was no interest in that route, and no explanation followed why. So the conclusion of a council agreement with us is to vote for our Pirata, which stands completely ahead of itself. The process is that the bill has been long and professional. It began with the 2013 Synod arrangement that arrived in the report by the health - care minister in 2016 and the postpractication bill. Because the bill was referred back to the minister of the last council with a clear message from the welfare committee to eliminate punishment for possession of drugs. Then, during this council, we returned to our home in the middle of the bill, and recently we were welcomed by the Pirates. Pirata's bill is the next logical step in that work. We don't have to wait for this anymore. The criminal charge saves lives. We can accept this important matter tonight. All that is needed is that the members of the greater part stand with their own policy and conviction. At the very least, I'm going to introduce the committee's opinion and the follow-up proposals. President. The ban on possession and treatment of narcotics can be attributed first to the 1920's when national legislation on the formation and trade of opioids, based on the 1912 Haag release provided by Iceland became an individual in 1921. However, the scope of the law was rather narrow, and it was not until the 1960's and 1970's that all drug abuse was subjected to legislation and protection, and the treatment of them made penalties. Since then, drug abuse has continued to increase. In these cases, the negative effects of consumer consumption have become clearer and the problems associated with consumption have increased. At that time, no basic changes have been made in dealing with the consumers of drugs. Since the beginning of penalties, however, the use of drugs to consumers has changed to a small extent over time. In recent years it is mainly true that there has been no more severe punishment for consumer doses, as well as minor offenses that no longer have a criminal record. At this time, an increased emphasis on damage to the government has been made to counteract the negative consequences of consumption. Despite the progress that has been made in the media in recent years, it will not be overlooked that there is still a penalty for the possession and treatment of drugs for its own use, even if the amount of chemicals is very low. Therefore, consumers may expect to be guilty, but what may outweigh is the police'obligation to stop and prevent these offenses, end as noted by the chief of police in the capital area on the CDC of 149. Then police have no comment on what action they will take if they interfere with a drug defender. Meanwhile, the authority to punish consumers of drugs has remained responsible for the prevention and treatment of consumers, the maintenance of materials found, and the use of necessary research measures to inform the possible offenses. While drug addicts may be expected to stop their quest, use it in physical pursuits, and be fined when they consult the authorities or when confronted by police, an effective harmful policy cannot be maintained. It's just not going to work out. It has been demonstrated in all the countries that have taken the step to the full in criminal abuse that is first through the delinquency of drugs, which results in real success in reducing the harmful effects of drug abuse. That's very clear. This has been tried and results are there. We're not picking up the bike here. In recent years, the need for more criminal drugs has become clearer. Drug-induced death, e.g. Overdose has increased and their prevalence is relatively high in Iceland. In 2018, at least 29 people died in connection with their drug use, but all or most of them are likely to be associated with drug abuse. Compared with other European countries, the rate of death from drug abuse is considerably higher in Iceland, about 8 per 100,000 people, than in Europe at around 2.3 per 100,000 people. These minute facts highlight how serious Iceland's problem with the harmful use of drugs and the need to use less destructive techniques to reduce the negative consequences of drug abuse. President. I'm going to discuss just the adjustments we make to meet the main concerns and suggestions of the manager who came to the Committee. The bill is suggested to receive or purchase drugs that are subject to addictive and drug law that will be eliminated from the criminal grips of the law. Comments were made to the Committee that this could affect the treatment of criminal cases involving immigrants and the distributed materials. The views also showed that the goal of the bill is sufficiently guaranteed by limiting the lack of punishment only to the possession of substances for personal consumption. Therefore, the term "B" is suggested. will be brought closer to the current law and that the terms "superfine" and "successary" will thus be added to the article, while preventing material when the amount under what may be considered to be used will be penalized without punishment. A lot was discussed with the Committee whether it was right to define consumption doses and aims for punishment protection at specific dosages or daily doses. Such an arrangement is in line with what has been practiced in Portugal and other countries that use criminal drugs or possess drugs. The definition of consumption dose was discussed in any case in the Committee meetings and presented a point of view, including in the visitor's case, it would be important to have some definition of what should be considered the dose of consumption. This would facilitate the work of the police and the courts and enhance the clarity of the judicial decisions covered. The willingness to define consumption doses has been discussed. It has been held that working on such a definition may be extremely difficult for many subjects. In fact, there has been a slight negative view when it comes to the discussion of how to define dosages. That problem, however, can be solved by viewing countries that already have drug abuse, for in many of them drug consumption has already been defined. The European Commission with drugs and drug addiction is an independent European Union agency and its role is to provide policy-makers, experts and investigators with reliable, detailed, and broad-specting information on drugs. The Agency has already compiled the legal status of consumers in terms of criminality consumption and possession of consumers throughout Europe. According to the Agency, several countries have already defined consumer dosages or penal sensitivity to a small amount of substances, which could then be considered to be their own consumption, Portugal, Spain, Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Czech Republic and Latvia. Some countries have defined a short list of the most common drugs, while other comprehensive lists of all the substances defined as illegal in international drug and drug contracts. It is clear that already many countries have taken the job to define consumers in one way or another. In view of this, it is normal to seek knowledge from European countries that now have decades of drug abuse experience. An enforcing law contains regulations, and on the basis of it there has been a law on addictive and drug abuse and other monitoring materials, as well as regular implementation of new regulations for the list, on the basis of which addiction and drugs fall under it. It is suggested that the bill be added to a new Regulation authority where a minister clearly explains the amount of materials to be consumed by himself. However, the quantity of all the drugs that fall under addiction and drugs is not required, but mostly those that are common in Iceland. To define the amount of consumption that may be considered for itself, a minister may take into account the amount of materials defined in other European countries for its own consumption. It can especially be considered in the countries discussed in the Committee. Another possibility would be to consider the violations authorized by a police officer to complete a police ticket or to look to the small number of non-crime offenses that are no longer a crime and aim for the definition of consumer doses with that amount of material. Drug abuse is now not a criminal record when a crime is set at a rate of less than 100,000. It is suggested that a new paragraph be added to Article 2. The law in which a regulations warrant will be set for a minister in which he will be obliged to set a regulations that require the quantity of addictive and drug use to be considered to be of his own use. The actual quantity to be used should be based on the 10-day ingestion dose. However, there is no obligation to define these definitions for all substances of substance, so a minister would not be expected to work to define the consumption of all drugs. If there is a situation where there is no definition of substances that the police place on and unclear whether the dose for personal consumption or distribution remains the principle that the product is only punished when the amount of material is too high that it cannot be considered for its own use. For the Committee it was discussed the fact that with the bill, only the adjustment to Article 2 was suggested. the treatment of addiction and drugs. No change would be expected in other sections of the bill. There was evidence that people with addiction do not use just substances defined as illegal according to Article 2. The law, it's the law, but according to 3. ...................................................... Under the count of three. many prescription medicines that people with addiction often look for, such as morphine-related and stimulating medicines. The lesser part agrees with the view that consumers should take doses of all substances that drug abuse can consume, whether in the case of prescription or drug related drugs. So suggests the change in chemical defense to be executed in the same way that 2 gr. of 1st C. This one's bill. Where development factor 3. differs from 2. and the banred possession is stated in two areas in this article at 4 mg. This article will add to the new case, which calls for a penalties in possession when the amount is not exceeding what can be considered for its own use. For the more detailed definition of dosing, adjustment in 2 joints also involves less than 3.g. There was some discussion of the Committee's value range of the bill to children, i.e. subjects under 18 years of age. They were viewed, including by visitors and the committee reviews, that it would not be acceptable to make penalties for children without child consumption. The minority stresses that the objective of this bill is not to increase drug access but rather to help authorities help those who need help. The treatment of these substances will continue to be prohibited in the Icelandic territory. The only change suggested here is to eliminate punishment for the possession of the chemicals; the smaller portion is fully tried to reduce drug abuse and its harmful consequences by resorting punishment against consumers. It doesn't work, it's obvious. We've been trying for 40 years. The minority feels that there is no evidence to maintain the punishment of children when they are removed from adults and therefore do not suggest changes in this material. The reviews of the reviews and the visitors of the Committee also discussed the fact that with the approval of the bill, it would no longer be possible to maintain material. This allows them to have a chance, e.g. The fact that there is no evidence for drug uptake may arise that police can have the responsibility to give information to an consumer she has taken from him, who can even be a child or a youth. Such a situation would be unacceptable, i.e. that police are being made to hand over drugs that could be harmful to a child. This is a very understandable view, and the memory part agrees with the view that in the case of children, it is important to watch for a certain safety point, i.e. that authorities should prevent possible damage caused by drug abuse by a child. That view must be weighed against the contrary, i.e. What harm does a police officer do to a person by laying hold of his drugs. This view applies to children as well as adults. A child who has become addicted to drugs ends up in the same danger as an adult who is exposed to withdrawal symptoms or who is experiencing other negative consequences following the use of drugs. Two. 1st par. " What is best for a child, " says a child, " always comes first when making decisions about his or her issues. Must be considered as if the police are obliged to cooperate with the law of their work when it comes to children. There will be no doubt that other laws may apply to police interference by minor children other than adults. While it may be considered right to trust adults to make their own decisions about the use of drugs and what help they get from doing so, the State will not be overlooked in having a certain obligation to wrongdoers, but on a 1 mg basis. 1st par. A child's right to live, to grow, and to enjoy protection, care, and other rights according to his age and development, and without any form of discrimination. In some cases it may be right for police to intervene in an illegal child's use with the goal of protecting the child from the harmful consequences of drug abuse. Such an intervention, however, can come only for the best of the child - not simply because drug control is defined as prohibited. So the smaller section considers it a reason to add a legal right to the use of drugs in a child's possession when such intervention harmonizes with the child's best interests. It will improve as so far as it has been used for maintenance. Section 5. the treatment of addiction and drugs. It has been noted that unless changes in this article are made, police will be obliged to continue supplying drugs despite the approval of this bill, which may have been illegally acquired. The lesser part agrees with that viewpoint and therefore suggests that the next article will be added to 6 mg. Section 5. The law, as you can see in the motions of changing. President. I know it's been a long speech, but it's my duty to discuss the off-limits. paritaprevir The Halla "Signý" Sigar new Kristjánsdóttir. There are several reasons why this case should be referred to the government, and now I quote the subjugation, by permission of the president: ◯b. The matter was not fully developed in the committee, and rather than finding the channel that provides the goal of the bill at peace, it was taken out of it. I pray and hope to do so. A senator will explain this later when she recommends the proposal. As far as I know, when we had guests in this case and came to the committee's attention, the question was asked if visitors were over, and then the whole committee agreed that guests were coming to the end. Since a good and long discussion of the committee's opinion and adjustments was taken, I do not understand the reasons why this should have been taken half finished from the committee, when all the committee agreed that the case was ready. There is also a suggestion that further definition of dosing is required. So I agree completely, for it is suggested that the health - care minister should specify dosages of consumption. The proposal also shows that it is important to gain experience in resources such as consumption space before leaving the bill. That's when I want to give it up. A senator knows, and I'm going to discuss it -- I hope I don't run out of time - that I'll suggest that the law's taking account for January 1st, bearing in mind giving Ministers the opportunity to work on that directive and that there may also be some kind of experience in the use of consumption space. It also states that it is important to consider more closely how the bill will be referred to as the government to the recording of portions, consumption, and possession of drug possession. I find it important to add here at the end - and this is shown in the Commission's list of my section's members, and is part of the change proposal, and has an assessment of the impact and benefits - that it was found that one of the necessary reasons for achieving success in dealing with the harmful consequences of drug abuse is to make use of the funds saved as a result of criminal abuse to meet the drug users with emphasis on damage, and to spend more on effective prevention. The minority thus feels that it is necessary that together with this approved bill, it will be considered that the best way to ensure that the benefit of possession of drug abuse will be spent to promote damage and prevention. In order to accomplish this, a lower share is proposed by the health secretary to have an active control of the progress and effects that will be approved by this bill. If there is anything to be achieved in line with what has been seen in other countries that have taken similar measures in drug crime control, then money will be expected to be in both the criminal and the health systems. It is important, then, to make sure that it will be used to help consumers, further reducing the negative consequences of drug abuse. This is a key factor in this change of course, President, but such a committee can also monitor whether further adjustments are needed and if this bill meets its goal. In this way we can actually view this bill as a test project; it doesn't need to be viewed as something that is demeaning to stone. We can look at this - although it may be a dangerous word to use in the legal process, but I do not agree that it is - as a well - observed experiment, and if things go wrong, we can change the approach. If it doesn't work out, it'll tell itself we'll change it. The bill is based on the experience of other nations, who have adopted the course of penalties with very effective results. We're not picking up the bike. It's not just in the air. What we do know is that the criminal policy isn't working. It adds to the problem, and it is irresponsible to maintain a course that has failed in 40 years but has had harmful results. But as I told you before, President, I wanted to account for the adjustment proposed in a special Senate document. During the procedure, comments were made that it was necessary to give sufficient time to prepare a regulation on the amount of materials that might be considered for personal use. In this way, you could prevent the assurance of rights that would arise in the implementation of the law until enforcing the regulations. Therefore, it is suggested that a post office be suspended for several months so that a minister may have an opportunity to enforcate the requested Regulation. But right at the end, I'd like to mention a-party in the off-limits' motion. paritaprevir A Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir who says that neither the police nor the health authorities have been consulted on the bill, even if this is the people who will work the most on this subject. However, we received envelopes from these sources, and we worked on the adjustments to meet the reports that came out. I also want to remind you, as I said at the beginning of the talk, that I understand the view that the senators would have liked to see this matter work better and in better discussions with these parties. But we offered a pact proposal, and it wasn't interested, possibly because health ministers are being bound too much of a bill. But this was a suggestion we brought, and it wasn't interested in it, so the conclusion is that we will vote for this bill that is well won. It's not right that it's a little finished and it's not working well. It's been a long time since the 2013 Parliamentary resolution, apart from the 2016 report and based on the experiences of other countries that have tried to do this. Now I'm starting to repeat myself, but I think it's really important that we can vote on these matters according to our own convictions instead of making this some kind of politics. I would love that. I'm sorry I couldn't go along the way of reconciliation, because I would have chosen to go that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u80	Madam President. I'm not going to start with a long talk, which you always start by saying before you think it's a long talk, but I want to start by thanking you for it. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen. I want to thank her for her kind and emotional speech. I want to thank her for her persistence in this matter. I'd like to thank her for all the work she's been doing, and I'd like to work hard to get judges to believe in her convictions at times and sometimes to believe the direction of her classes. I want to thank her for teaching us everything she's read about this lesson. I'm starting to sound like I'm at a birthday party. Mogensen But it is true that this case would not be here if it wasn't for her persistence because it is indeed burning for this criminal abuse and the damaging treatment of all - sizes and types of addicts. It was my pleasure to be a cohesor of this case because I have strong faith that execution of punishment and damage will save lives. In fact, I feel very sad to find the conflicts that occur at the House on Human Beings, such as those we're dealing with here tonight. I don't like it. Really, we should agree to do all we can to relieve the suffering of those who suffer from addiction. The drug is a health problem, and we are to deal with the addiction in that area, from the point of view, not from criminal policy, by condemnation and excommunication. Unfortunately, too much of that excommunication is still exhaling in the minds of many here in the house, such as anywhere else in the community. And we need to do everything we can to prevent it. The drug-free look in Iceland in 2000 is dead. Sentence has returned nothing, nothing. In my job as a lawyer, I often met people who had the problem of being addicted. Often I heard stories about people who looked like freedom, who were afraid to call the police to help them, who were at a party and afraid to call an ambulance to help their friends who were in trouble, etc. This is part of the situation, preventing premature deaths that could be prevented, e.g. If those around that addict have the courage to call the police and an ambulance to help them. Selling drugs will continue to be punishable. Drug purchases and sales continue to be punished. But if this bill is approved it will not be punishable with consumption. But because this case is not coming from the right direction, from the right council members, it seems that the members of the administrations, who claim to be accompanied by damage, are not to support this matter. That's incredibly sad for me. I repeat, this is humanitarian. It's nothing but humanitarian. And it's health issues. That is why it is really impossible for us to, in fact, not all 63 of us to support this matter. Changes are made in the language that is beneficial and meet the recommendations given to us on the committee. This case was finished here for the year before we hit the ground. For weeks, a panel was dealing with Congress because no government case came into the committee until the end of November last year. That is why we managed to complete the visitors'arrival in the case and to work full on the committee's opinion. We managed to do this, so we even discussed the committee's opinion at two committee meetings without visitors. It was finished before we went to Christmas break. That is why it is not true that the matter is not yet finished. I want to tell you one story, too. She's from the police officer who allows the person he helps to drop the drug from the addict's gear and leave them on the floor in the police car without consequences because the policeman considers him to be in a demeaning operation. However, the policeman was not necessarily certain that he was a victim of criminal abuse, but when he was told by the policeman that he was actually performing a criminal charge without prior recovery, he admitted it. He believed that human care for addicts would be far better for them than for the criminal policy. I'd kind of like to let this be the final story for tonight in my speech and then finish the talk by saying again: Thank you, OK. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, for her toughness.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u81	A respectable president. Drug abuse has been punishable for nearly 50 years in Iceland and around the world, with tragic results. The war against drugs was and is a war against people, and this war has long since been lost with an untold, ongoing human sacrifice in the name of a bankrupt policy that has only resulted in greater consumption, cheaper and more drugs, organized crime, and a terrible, unjust number of premature deaths. When criminal possession of drug abuse and the criminal punishment of drugs took place in the General Assembly, the discussion was not long. This came as an invitation from the United States, that we should be involved in the war on drugs. I believe that there was neither much nor much extensive discussion here that it was decided to supersede a whole group of people in our community. Since then, drug users have been rejected. They have been discriminated against. They have been evicted from the community. They've been despised. They have been abandoned without assistance. They have been pushed into even worse situations or have been imprisoned. In time, it is no longer perfectly acceptable to speak for excommunication of drug abuse. It is no longer completely acceptable, at least ... ina little bit more credit. It is normal to talk about the condition of those who suffer from drug abuse, but they have not been able to provide enough health care to those who are said to suffer from a disease. Well, once we bring this important matter all the way here. ... we hear reasons that we have heard for so long; fear that the Pharisees of drug abuse, the judicious use of drugs. Madam President. There is nothing natural or normal about punishing people for drugs. It's just not normal. Normal conditions are abnormal. As the situation is now, it is normal to prey on people for being ill. It's legal that drugs are being used in a criminal way. It's normal to fuck kids for using drugs. We're suggesting that children who experiment with the police can go to the police without fear of consequences, that they will not be able to go to the police and ask for help if their friends make an overdose. But no, we'd rather they're afraid of the police, that they didn't trust the police, that they didn't trust their health care professionals, that they don't want to get help. Imagine how many lives have been lost because our young people do not trust the police to help them in such situations. So, rather, should we not ignore the presence of the police and the fact that the police are safe for children to look to them for protection, rather than allow them to have a criminal record, that it may cause them trouble, and that they are rather motivated not to seek help, possibly with a terrible result? I'd like to say that the level of damage and the intention to stop punishing people for the use of drugs has been well established by the arrival of Pirata in politics. As we have considered, this important issue will begin with a proposal for Congress in 2013 to report in 2016, and this report will be undertaken in a cross-cutting cooperation, including the year 2016. Police and surgeon. These participants concluded that 2016 should be punished for consumption. What is now called the end of the discussion has already been done, very much. But now we're going to make another report. Now people with drug problems are to wait a few more years while another group is assigned, while another report is being written. And while this group shall wait for righteousness. I just want to talk about the deduction proposal that lies here because I'm hurting what I think is just a very dishonest statement to her. First of all, the bill suggests that the law of the ban on possession, purchases, and receipts of chemicals is laid down. It is proper to point that there is a new proposal that ensures that purchase and reception will continue to be punished. So the first phrase is technically incorrect. Although it's true that it's in the bill, the deportation proposal should be made. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, well to know that this is part of a change in the motion of a carrier named with a bang. Senator. It also claims that the bill had neither a consultation with the police nor the health authorities. I properly referred to a health - care group that included the police and the police and the health authorities, of course, came before the committee. So the b-authority of the delinquency argues that the case has not been sufficiently implemented in the committee and has been partially completed. It is true that the case was ready for New Year's Eve, which has been held hostage at the greater part of the committee since then. [[Up front.]] Of course, prominent members of the greater welfare committee had enough opportunity to request further visitors and further information during the six months that the case was at the bottom of the committee after we first tried to get it out. In the c- team, a further definition of dosing is needed. Yeah, okay, but we'd make that decision by the Minister of Justice. Finally, of course, I want to point to what I find so sad, i.e. that the messenger of the proposal feels that it is important that the bill be referred to the government in order to negotiate a case report, another report. Let's wait for another report, another group of workers, and then maybe later we'll have a bill. Of course, this government has a drug abuse problem on its policy index, or I thought it somehow, I understood the policy sheet that way. It is now one year left of the government's ideal period, and it is still not infuriated. If you're going to write a report first, I just think that this government is going to do this, but of course it's a nice surprise to me. The United Nations and the World Health Organization, both of these institutions have recommended that the amount of criminal consumption be taken by the state. The government has had three years to do what she promised her voters to do with a government covenant, and she has not. And now we're supposed to wait for some report to get perhaps later legal improvements for one of the most peripheral groups in Iceland. Of course, this is a very sad, respectable president, and certainly not justified. I hope the senators will see that we've made a choice in this matter. We made a pact proposal that had a clear timeline, a clear demand to submit a bill for a New Year's Eve. But this was too strict for the greater part. It was not even possible to look at this idea, our policy of reconciliation on how this could come from a health minister so that the green button would be a little more comfortable for the council members. But that was not an option. So the fight was on our side. Unfortunately, he wasn't on the board.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u82	A respectable president. For several hundred years, God punished people with eternal hellfire for minor sins, such as sexual abuse. The society grew out of it. For a long time, and most likely, children were beaten to pieces when they disobeyed. Fathers beat their children with girdles, weeping at having to discipline them in this way, for their good. Happily, we grew up out of it as a society, but of course we never fully understood it. Of course, violence is prevalent against children, but as a community, we admit that it is bad because that method has failed to get our children to behave as we wish. We developed it because beating our children is wrong. It should never be. What else? someone asks. Something else, a respectable president. There are many answers, but one of them is: something else, or nothing else, if needed, but that. We do not punish our children with violence for disobedientness, and in general, we do not agree that God will judge us in eternal hell for failing any sexual code, such as. it has the wrong sexual orientation according to any worm or anything. But when it comes to drugs, we are still primitively punished for using drugs, and people die of it. There are well - known cases of death because this group has been rejected. Whether people have an addiction problem or not, a respectable president, that is wrong. It is only basically wrong to use the outcasts and prejudices that are reflected not only in the legislation but in the opinion given by the legislation, by the use of drugs. This subject is not new. Pirat and I have been fighting for this since 2013. At one time, a resolution of the establishment of a working group was adopted, and he returned a report. I was in that group myself. The report has been submitted, it has become the policy of several categories and everything. This has been done a little well in previous talks, so maybe I'm not going to give a complete talk about it all that way. The remainder of what is so public, however fear - inspiring the greater part is simply to take a stand on the matter. Why? Because of the greater part, a respectable president, we don't want to accept it. I think that's just the thing. They want to talk about meditating on it, and they want to take a closer look over it for years, over and over again. But it's still too much to take action, saying: A general saying they give public recommendations to the state stocks and the police that we stop beating our children, that we stop punishing people for having problems, for perhaps having a problem, for perhaps later we have a problem. A respectable president. We'll grow out of this one day. The question is when. I wish it were night or night. I'm afraid it won't be. Then, too, it should be to wait for why not. Is this because freedom-sufficient senators from freedom-sufficiency do not get along enough? No, that's not the problem, a respectable president. Is it because the Independence Party, with all its love for freedom, can't control enough? He'll be the one who'll settle this case if it goes down, a respectable president. Several groups are more into freedom than the Independence Party, talk about it more seriously, put out a case of realness, and vote in favor of the real freedom. There are some, Pirata, revered, and the Convergence, which is a left category, boasting about it. Why is this so? Why is it that there is a deportation motion to win another report, one more present, and one more opinion? That's because it's coming from the wrong direction. It's simple. If asked by someone other than a member of a government stand, the majority would agree to that, at least enough of the part to pass through. I often have conversations with voters, and I have to correct some misunderstanding that people have about the council, about why we're not all here all the time. And I say, isn't it normal that we're not always here in the hall? Isn't it normal that it's like gay, I say about something people have misunderstood. Someone says, " Sometimes things are rejected just because they come from the wrong direction. ' And, a respectable president, that's how it is. That's how it is and it's sick, it's crazy, it's broken, and it shouldn't be like that. When we're talking about stopping punishing consumers, we should be able to look at this matter for what it is. This is in good condition the least possible step we can take to achieve this success. There has been no modification suggestions on the subject, how to do this in a more delicate way, because everyone has been protected. We have belts and bracelets. Let's hope we use them right in the future. I sincerely hope that voters, especially the Independence Party, but also the left greens who have spoken as they would seriously want to do this, think twice in the next election if these two classes make this proposal tonight or night.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u83	A respectable president. I'm moving an off-limits on bill to legalize a change in the law on addiction and drugs. The original bill suggests changes in drug and drug laws, No. 65/174, that the ban on possession, purchase and welcome of substances will be removed. It is important that drug use and dosing are not punished and that support is more emphasised than punishment, and so there are others. During the treatment of the Committee bill, important tips were provided to consider the importance of continuing to work on the case. What has been observed is even This: The case was tore up, and visitors came, and it was not requested further visitors for the committee before Christmas. That's right. It's been days since. It is not stated in the bill that the authorities have consulted with the police or the health authorities even if they are members who will work most on this issue. It is disrespectful not to consult in the early stages. That's disrespectful. I've seen here a red button from the Porta Group, the Convergence and others because we've been missing our consultations, including Today, many red lights have been on fire because of incorruption and other factors. A great deal has been said about it here in the early stages. Second, rather than finding the direction that provided the bill's objective. It's not cool when not all can be involved. It is not acceptable when this discussion has not taken place fully in the community. This is an extremely important matter. We need to have mature discussions in our community too, not just at a closed meeting on a welfare committee. Hence, it is important to discuss the matter with this conclusion. We are not talking about totally disappearing to previous times. We're talking all phases of the case, in agreement. It's a fact that this word, addressed, was invented by the Pirates, but it's not supposed to be in the mood right now. Further definition of dosing is required. You're just supposed to hide a minister's decision? Is that enough? It is important that there is some experience with resources such as consumption space before the bill is supplied. We took important steps in the winter when we agreed to have consumption space because we want to take care of our weakest group. I think it's important that this important step be reached. This is a huge step we're taking here. We can totally take it together. This is an extremely important step, but it must be taken in small steps. We too need to consult, and we need to examine how this has worked out. They're going this way in Norway. Is it okay to hang around? Okay, we're in a hurry, that's absolutely right, but let's go together, not with some noise. This committee has been called violent. It has often been suggested in this discourse that violence is called violence. I'm not gonna say it's any kind of violence. This was agreed, and a bit of a special agreement, in these council contracts. It is important to take a closer look at the recording of doses and consumption and the possession of drug users in children. So here it is suggested that the bill be referred to the government, which serves as Minister of Health, in cooperation with the Minister of Justice, to provide a report. - It may now be one memo. It doesn't have to be a hundred page report that takes years. In that case, something good can come. But maybe, as shown in a case of which. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunns' Gunnarsson, you see, it's where it comes from. I understand that Pirats and their senators have made a big effort on this matter, and thanks. It's respectable. This case has been made far better with an approved transporterman than it had been accepted. That's for sure. Various arguments have been answered, visitors, and others. That's fine. I hope you can bring some bill. And I'll back it up, support this case when it's fully proposed. Here we're changing the bill, one, two, three. It is much better to do this in more discussions, in greater peace, so that all can sign it. And most important, those who work on these matters, I'm talking about the police and the health authorities, must be happy when they are given the matter fully out of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u84	A respectable president. There are a number of factors that can be considered, as we have considered, in fact all the doubt that appear either in the contraption form. A senator or her speech. However, the key question remains: Do we feel that it is right to punish people for having a drug problem, yes, or no? Do we sometimes feel that it is right? Do we never feel that it is right? I never feel that it's just like I never feel it's okay to hit my children. I never feel that way, ever. And that's the way it's supposed to be. This is the question, and this is the question that is always left behind. This needs to be examined. It's the only thing left to look at. I'm going to correct a few things in terms of this deliberation proposal because I was myself a member of a staff member who was appointed by a minister following a council hearing that was approved here at the General Assembly. There were police, health authorities, our report, and the proposal for crime control. The process is just over, so it's clear. This is a fact, and it can be looked up online. This is not something we need to reason on. I'd really like to ask you what. A senator to the d- team of deduction proposals, that it is important that experience is gained by resources such as consumption space before the bill is dispensed. I wondered what could come out of the experience that would do the right thing to punish drug addicts. Let us say that somehow this is a mess. So should we continue to punish consumers? Or if it works out well, should we continue to punish consumers? Why should we continue to punish consumers from the way consumption develops? If they are not done right or if something goes wrong, how does this lead to our being different in this matter? That's what I don't understand. The question is not what the police think or what the health authorities think but what we think of ourselves in the heart. Do we feel that it's okay to punish people for drug abuse? That's what needs to be examined, and I'm gonna ask you why. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the counter-sponsore. Is it proper to punish for the use of drugs? No, I'm not. But this case is not finished. Experience with consumption space, we know that we had a business bill last year, and it turned out that we didn't have enough to talk to the police. This was shown in their case that they were not absolutely sure how to work at it when it was done. [[For example, consider: They are not yet certain.]] V.E.G. The minister took the bill back, improved it, and made it possible, in consultation with the police, that it could be settled in agreement with the police. That's how we did it. So I can assume that with the experience of this space, it would be possible to live even more fully on this subject. This could be a better way to enter the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u86	A respectable president. I understood that one of the big issues of consumption is how the police should allow themselves not to punish consumers in the light of the laws proposed here to be changed, including. That there is more harmony. First of all, it is simply wrong not to have had a talk or a conversation with the police about this. There are only a number of forces within the police that want to keep their group of lawsuits as law enforcement phenomena. The whole point with this idea is that we should not have problems such as addictions or diseases in general as law enforcement problems but as health problems. That means it's not the question of what the police think. It would be like asking the police how to treat cancer or how to deal with health issues in general. The police want to keep these things to themselves for the simple reason that this is something they do now, and they don't necessarily know how to deal with the changes. When it comes to health questions and moral questions, we are not affected by the attitude of the police, as well as by what I asked. A senator and I thank her for making such a clear answer. Many senators say that they do not believe in punishing drug addicts. It would sound absurd, wouldn't it, if a senator came up and said, "I feel we should punish the addicts, I think it's a good idea. I don't think a respectable president, that the person would get a huge round of applause from no one for that end of a ridiculous idea. That's exactly the point. The problem is that people are afraid of changing something they've grown up for granted, the thing here is being punished for drug abuse. I want to thank you. A senator for his answer, and he accepts it as credible. I hope there's a bill coming up at the next concierge. A senator pleases. But I also find it important to bear in mind that when we say that we don't want to punish drug abuse, it has certain logical consequences, because we must support this bill. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u87	A respectable president. I didn't answer a question. It was just such a question. I don't think there's any way to talk about the police dealing with the diseases in this relationship. We can also get involved in other crimes that often, and most often are caused by some disease. The police are dealing with this every day, so they may need to get a clear system and be content, even if this is not necessarily controlled. This needs a lot of discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u88	President. This substitution suggests that the bill will be referred to the Government as the Minister of Health, in cooperation with the Minister of Justice, to provide a report on the case submitted to the General Assembly, and after the events, offer suggestions or bill that will address the above - mentioned issues and based on the experience of consumer management. It's come out of nowhere. A senator knows that this report has been won. She's here. It's a question of how many reports we need before we have to start working on it. In view of this, I would like to ask him why. A member of the Parliament why the work that has taken place on the report, the cross-cutting work, is not considered sufficient. Why is it the highest? The Minister wouldn't rather bring a bill? Well, maybe. A senator explains why it is not time to pray simply at the height of our prayers. A health secretary to return a bill based on the proposals presented in the completed report rather than any other reports?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen for the counter-reception. However, this is a great waiver because it says, "And/or bring a bill or a proposal for a bill." I just have to say in an honest answer that I'm not comfortable with the bill as it is now. I'll be on the red button, but with this contraption, I'm supporting my goal. I'd like to continue working on that, and I'd probably have supported the synopsis of that subject. I just have to admit it. As a result, I am supporting our objective but to reject the case as it is now entering the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u90	President. I appreciate those answers. Hv. A senator said that it would support a synonym as a health minister to bring a bill. In view of this, I'd like to ask her, if she, a member of the greater part, knowing or able to explain why the proposal was rejected. Why do you think so? A senator who denied the proposal to change this bill of our Porta and I into a Senate resolution where health ministers were assigned to bring a bill? That's a short question because I haven't had any good answers to it. I really don't understand why this finding is in place of going that way, if it's the real will of the greater part and the highest. Health Minister to bring a bill, to turn it into a synonym. Then all the work they're asking for in this contraband could have taken place.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u91	A respectable president. I think the highest. A health minister is fully willing to work on this matter. This direct reference to the government and to the Ministry of Health is, of course, done with her consent. She was willing to accept the matter and work on it. I'm not so high as to be in these negotiations, so I can't tell you why it went to Congress deals like this. I don't have an explanation for that. But that's how it turned out. I think it may have been, too, because it didn't come out right away and maybe it had to change right from the start. I'm not going to explain where it went in a ditch or ended up like this. But this is how it's set up for us today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u92	A respectable president. This interesting and important matter has already been discussed successfully. I thank the first missionary for his good entrovert, who I found very interesting and would like to agree with. The talk was full of sensitivity, feelings, and responsibilities. This issue is not about whether we really exist with or without drugs in Iceland. It's not about the drugs itself. Let's take it out of parentheses. True, people can have differing views about whether to legalize a cannabis and have certain opinions about drugs and its consequences for individuals and society itself. That's not exactly what we're talking about. On the other hand, we are in this bill discussing the people themselves. The bill is about people themselves, individuals who experience a serious straggling of their own skin, which even makes these people afraid to seek needed assistance here in the community, and perhaps there are not too many doors open for those who need help. You see, this bill is my opinion of people who have been taken away from the system because they are vulnerable because they have a disease. I myself have heard all kinds of stories about people who are seriously ill with drugs, but I also shy away. to call an ambulance because of the fear of having drugs in their possession. This, in turn, could also be charged with possession of drugs. A respectable president. By maintaining this embellishment of individuals, we are not facing reality in my opinion. The punishment system, as it is installed today, has not worked for this group, and it is totally overlooked. With our present system, we continue to keep this group of individuals, human beings, a group of people, these fragile people who need assistance, who need care, who need to think that the door in the system is open, not closed. People get bored in drugs for all kinds of reasons. There is also no discussion here, but it is also important that we look at the underlying causes of people's problems and social conditions. During the past few weeks, the talk about prejudice has been very prominent in this country and around the world. When we discuss this subject, we also need to face our own prejudices and personal ignorance regarding the reality of the people involved in this bill. Let the bill be the exact subject of individuals who need help. The least we can do, a respectable president, is listen to their voices and make sure that the system takes these our people but does not eliminate them from the community any more, the possibilities we would like to offer in the community and opportunities they follow. This bill is, in my opinion, a well-defined new disposal law on consumption, which is actually logical the next step. I respect the voices heard earlier from one government senator that there are some doubts. I'm going to respect them, but I disagree with them because we've been having a lot of discussions, not just this year and this loss, but over the last eight years. Reports have been provided that accurately answer the questions that may include the following: Council members of the administrative sector were made up of members of the Governing Body. I would also like to commend the committee for taking matters and setting specific adjustments. That means it's been covered. I know that the results of a committee have yielded opinions and findings due to criminal abuse. It was reviewed, so we can eventually embrace these people, we can catch the people who need help, and we can't punish them for their drug abuse. Besides, this bill is in line with the challenge of restoration, and that is in harmony with the direction of the restoration. In my opinion, it's time to face reality as it is. Therefore, in my opinion, now is the time for the council to accept this matter. That's why I'll be supporting it when it comes to putting it down.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u93	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this case to any extent. I'm on the bill, and I'm at my committee party. It's so simple. We don't punish sick people. It's not complicated. It's so simple, we just have to say it again, "We don't punish sick people." How on earth are we going to say that someone is born and say: "I am going to be a drug addict. Take a look at this. Is it not punishment enough to find yourself in the situation of addiction? [[Taken out on: right.]] We don't have to punish them anymore. [[Foreground on: No.]] Let's stop it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u94	A respectable president. I'm here offering a review of a transition from the Economic and Business Commission on a bill to legalize a change in income tax law, No. 90/2003, with subsequent changes, reduction from carbon balance. The committee discussed the matter and met with the members listed in the committee's opinion. The commission received reviews and also reviewed reviews of the previous council. The bill suggests that a new number is added to 31 grams. the management of income taxes, allowing the amount of carbon balance to be withdrawn from the income tax strain under the heading, although up to a maximum of 0.85% of revenues according to B-join 7. The law of the law in that year, when contributions are made. It's in number two 31. income tax laws can be found to cut off donations and contributions to churches, established euthanasia, culture, political parties and scientific research projects, but not more than 0.75% of annual income. In consultation with the Ministry, the Commission suggests that instead of the addition of a new figure to 31 p.m. the number 2 of the law will be changed so that contributions that contribute to the carbon balance are added. It also counts that the committee should according to the same maximum amount as that of the law, i.e. Seventy-five percent of each year's income. Finally, the committee feels that it is unnecessary to state accurately in a law text what is considered a step forward in the sense of the law and to suggest word changes for simplicity. According to the cost estimates at the General Assembly, if the bill is approved, the impact on the state funds may be negative in the range of 200 to 300 million. K. every year. In view of all of this, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following change. - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. par. put it Number 2. 31. The law puts it this way: single donations and contributions to churches, established charity, culture, political parties and scientific research, but not more than 0.75% of revenues. B team 7. in that year when administering or making a donation - And here's the change. The same is true of contributions to carbon balance measures, such as operations on carbon balances, as well as forest breeding funding, healing work, and recovery of wetlands. The secretary of the Regulation shall state the issues and institutions involved in this and otherwise implementing it. Hv. paritaprevir Although Davíð Gunnlaugsson's victory over the case, under the opinion of the committee, he was absent from the case. Óli Björn's Kárason, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Jóldur the Steindór of Valdimarsson, Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Brutish the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Smári Mccarthy, and Willum Þór son of Þórsson. I want to finally thank you. The Economic and Business Committee is very much pleased with the cooperation and work of this bill and is pleased to see that it is here to 2nd. and payment at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-29-130.u95	Madam President. We'll talk here for a bill or something. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson on positive incentives to get companies to strengthen carbon binding, best of business. But with the change in the subject, the question arises. The economic and business committee opens up an opportunity to deal with the inheritance of the past, which is in the 2nd number 31. a law on income taxes, which led me to suggest a change to the Commission's proposal that the word "political parties" will fall out of the article. In fact, an adjustment of the same material was introduced here in 1993 by the female list representatives at the council when this addition was added to a income tax law. Then it was agreed that a Minister's bill allowed a reduction in corporate income taxation from donor to church, charity, cultural and scientific professions was allowed to include political parties. The political environment and their financing were very different in 1993, today. Likely, this has been very encouraging for the companies back then, since transparency was not the least of what we're getting used to today. The tax was considerably higher than today, and there was no climax to political contributions. Many steps have been taken in the right direction regarding these factors to reduce the risk of political conflict but still hangs on by this inheritance. So we put it in context, this is seen from the state, and from the political parties as well, no huge sum. Political groups, the eight members of the council today, had a total of over one billion in income during 2018. About that time. 732 million. K. Through direct government contributions, there were only 47 million donations. If each of the companies had fully used the legal authority on income taxes to lower the tax stock by means of these contributions, we would be talking about maybe 10 million. K. A reimbursement from the state to subsidize these contributions to the political parties. So here we are not talking about any of the big numbers that are important in the government business, but these items in the legal set I believe are timely and in the spirit of what has been done regarding the financing of political movements in recent years. I think we should take advantage of this opportunity, since this law of the income tax is open here and now, and take here one short cut.
