ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-30-131.u1	So far in all the parts of the program that too little time has passed since these discussions have been discussed, so we need to seek approval that the discussion may be taken into consideration. Also so that the 6th session is overdose from dispensing the modification proposal in it, it needs to be agreed to accept the change in schedule. A vote for these species is now being given. The vote is over. The variants are agreed with 52 consistent votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-30-131.u2	V.E.G. President. Me and what. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzma is on the alert in this case. The primary reason is that the matter had to be established earlier in the present costumes and State responsibilities needed to ensure reimburse individuals on a package trip would have to be placed right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-30-131.u3	President. This is the best of all. The original minister suggested that people who were required to get their money back would be replaced by an introduction. As shown in the management of a professional professional committee, this would conflict with the Constitution, which would not be moderated, not carried out, other ways that would have been effective. It was pushed aside and waited. Finally, the Ministry offered another suggestion, which was actually very similar to the one who had the problem. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, had suggested in the beginning. Maybe she should have been listened to sooner. Finally, the distribution made it possible for people to go to a travel policy fund. No, there was a point on the property rights, that maybe you could tell the travel agencies, "We're in a loan program with the state we don't want. That way, therefore, was not gone. Then they pushed off the board next time. Finally, though, we made it a point for companies who want to pay these requirements to borrow money from the state at a good price. The government has a better loan salary than this, so maybe it won't lose anything on it. [[The president calls.]] Travel agencies borrow this money and can pay them out. The consumers are paid that money. So, for the most part, this is a good thing. [[The president calls.]] However, there may be some warnings regarding Kingdom responsibilities, but in general this is good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-30-131.u4	A respectable president. I'd like to underscore my gratitude for what it is. The welfare committee and the whole body of members for great support across groups. This shows how we can change our work habits here at the council in this important matter. We are not just ensuring a low income right to psychological services and other similar general treatments. Not only are we offering short and long - term prevention measures regarding the access to psychological services but we are now making spiritual diseases as right as the physical one. It's being made visible in the system, and that's why I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-30-131.u5	Hv. All council members. Because of the circumstances, I will shorten a very traditional summary of this time's Senate work as we complete a hearing this spring. Rather, traditional material on the Senate work and statistics will be thoroughly explained on the Generals website. But I'd like to say this: When the Allied Council met on September 10, no one wondered what the winter would bring. In December with the loss of electricity and property, hopeless weather gave rise to the concert, followed by a wave of snow based on Western soil, a land rise and an earth hit on smokejanes, and the crown virus plunged into Iceland at the end of February. After most of the epidemic had resolved, at least in the first round, there arose severe earthquakes in the north. The effects of the Korean epidemic have been vast in all parts of the world, and Iceland is no exception. Nearly 2,000 were diagnosed in Iceland during the winter and spring, and ten people died. We offer sympathy to their neighbors. It is publicised that the Icelanders have succeeded in their struggle with the epidemic and even with international attention. The Almanists trident, Víðir, Alma, Þórólfur, has won the minds and hearts of the people of the land, and although some may feel that carrying it in the trayful stream will be theirs, along with all the rest of this wrestling, thank you from the Council. The General has benefited from their counseling during the past few months, and when the uncertainty of how we could conduct our work here at the council, we had them over. The economic and social effects of the Korean epidemic were also rapid and intense, and during the spring months, the people's work became almost exclusively subject to response and arrangements for the pandemic. The work environment and the circumstances of members of the Parliament and the members of the Generals were also a challenge. It was successful to keep the European Parliament functioning through the unattainable epidemic. And it turned out to be extremely important, as shown by the tens of Congress matters that we in our daily conversations, have been mentioned as Covid's case and managed to handle, including three budgets. At the end of April, the Senate began to move to routine values, despite unusual circumstances in the extended plagion meetings, and more matters to reach than the one person who was directly involved in the Korean epidemic. Since the end of May, members of the council have been able to meet at a council hall, with a traditional seating ship, and regular committees assembled at a meeting place. Because of the unpredictable circumstances we have faced, a large number of unforeseen events, as stated earlier, have had to be extended to a total of about thirty linked to the pandemic. The establishment of the 151th legislature will be later than the norm of October 1, 2020, as the United States of Congress knows. The prime minister's bill on changing the Council of Congress by provisional regulations on a meeting day was approved here. The reason, like any other, can be traced to the pandemic and to economic uncertainty. I would like to thank all members of the council for their cooperation and vice presidents for their excellent cooperation with the council board. At the same time, I thank the chairmans of Congress and the presidents of the political party cooperation and their contributions to settle differences so that Congress can be completed near the scheduled time of the revised work programme. The Office manager and staff of the Generals thank me for all the professional and cooperative work that has been done, both during the time of the crowning epidemic, as well as in these last days and weeks, when the Congress was fully moving. The people of the Generals have great honor and respect for their contribution. Nice senators. There are many things written about the Generals as normal as they are, and sometimes we senators are very hard on our own. Less often, the Council is commended, but let it be done now and even if it is the president of the General himself. I believe the Council has successfully passed a difficult test, in fact, many of our tests, which have been put before us on this special, hard - pressed councilman, who is now behind and who will likely remember all of the people involved. I wish out-of-town people a nice visit and a pleasant return, and I hope we can all meet together here safely for a summer when we meet together again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-30-131.u6	Mr. President. On behalf of us generals, I'd like to present our presidents and vice presidents thanks for our cooperation this winter. I also thank the President for his warm words to us, and most important, I thank the President's cooperation with our council members. I would also like to thank the staff of the Generals for their good work and important help. The unprecedented situation that has existed during the council last month has brought great stress to the staff of the Generals, and the pressures have come in an awe - inspiring way. As soon as I wish the members of the council to have a happy summer and all the people of the country, I'd like to remind them once again that Covid is not finished; keep distance, obey Víðir. Finally, I thank the president and the members of the Generals and ask the senators to accept my words by getting out of their seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-30-131.u7	Thank you. 12th p.m. We're out of Suðvest. "The Guðmundur Ingi, the son of Kristinsson, for the warm words and good wishes of me and my family and thank you. Congress officials agree with them by rising from their seats. I repeat my thanks and wishes to do so. All members of the Parliament and staff of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-30-131.u8	President of the United States reports: I, apart from the approval of the Generals, authorized the prime minister to postpone Generalist meetings of 150th C.E. from 29 June 2020 or later, if necessary, to August 27, 2020. Bases, 29 June 2020. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for Pronunciation of General meetings By this request and by references to the approval of the Generals, I declare that General Assembly meeting of 150th is postponed. As noted, by the end of August, the General Assembly will meet for an extended meeting. The aim is to address the inevitable changes in financial policy because of the economic breakdown that has resulted. As noted in the case of the Council of Congress, a new assembly will meet on October 1 and there will await our greatest challenges, as is true of all society, but I am confident that we will be able to overcome these problems. I wish. All council members, members of the council, and citizens of the country all in a joyful summer.
