ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u1	There have been letters received from the following wanted-to-end advisers to provide written answers to queries: from a marine economist and agri-gri-gri-environmental ministers due to the application of the inquiries. 1163, on contracts of government funds, from Björn Leví's Gunnarsson; from the Minister of Justice for the Question. 961, about the number of police officers on February 1, 2020, from Karl Gauti Hjaltason, and finally from the health minister for the inquiry. 1066, on ADHD attention deficit, from Una María Óskarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u2	The President now plans to look for variations in both aspects of the program, but their distribution has been too short. In view of the unusual circumstances that exist today, the president has requested that these differences be granted under the authority of 1 mg. 80. g. Congress. Directors of Parliaments have informed the president that they have their consent on behalf of their members for the purpose of both programs. So if you don't object, if you don't hear a word of it, you'll have an approved look.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u3	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis proposal for a temporary investment initiative. This is one of the economic actions that the government considers necessary to attack to counteract a recession in the economy following the pandemic. The investment campaign is part of the first government response to support economic and international investments. The economy of the campaign is determined in a bill for financial support already recommended. Here it is intended to attack government direct investments for 15 billion dollars. Right this year. It is also assumed that an enterprise owned by the State will attack investments or speed up the economy for up to 5 billion dollars. In addition to the government's investment campaign. In all, then, it is public investments for 20 billion dollars. in a broad variety of investments that will benefit society. This arrangement does not have a parallel, but it is used under the special conditions that now exist. The spread of the Korean virus and measures to prevent spread of it have already had a major impact on the economy, and this effect is expected to increase. The current economic situation with rapid decline in demand, economic salaries, and small employment investment calls for an increase in government investments. As we considered the investment projects of this effort, there was a high priority on a work that could be done this year. On this basis, for up to 15 billion dollars, creation was suggested as a platform. for investment projects, as well as government investment partners, as I've been on before. These contributions account for an additional 74 billion dollars. to make investments expected in current budgets for 2020. The increase is therefore approximately A fifth. This proposal suggests that the General Assembly concludes that further dissociation of the above documents to projects and individual investment projects is being concluded. The To-do Groups are listed below: 1st Increased maintenance and restoration of state property. This is a variety of projects that will be distributed in many parts of the country and that will be carried out on most of the Kingdom Halls. 2. New construction projects and major reform projects. It's even here. Preparation projects for several construction projects of three main conspires. The projects will be carried out in cooperation with the current recruitment and administration of the state. 3. It's an entourage. This category has a wide variety of new projects as well as maintenance projects, and it can be said that these projects are all over the country and that they also take care of all transport, i.e. Roads, airports, ports, and bridges. 4. Energy exchange, green solutions and environment. The tasks discussed here are in the responsible areas of the Environment and Resource Ministry and reflect emphasis on climate and development in peace-installed areas. 5. It's a second-in-the-line job. Participants on the list include a number of important structures designed to correct weaknesses that have occurred in the last few months and can be referred to a specific report that appeared just around the February / February, late February, if my memory is correct. There had been a special task force and offered suggestions. That list lists e.g. estimated to be rapid because of avalanches, for example. There is another example. 6th Research, innovation, creative articles. These are contributions, which will largely flow to professional funds that provide financial resources for individual projects. This extends from basic research to practical research, as well as important proposals for creative purposes. 7. Digital Iceland and information projects. Under this category, there is a wide range of projects in innovation, information technology, network security, and digital services. For example, we are working to speed up 4,400,500 government services and move to digital shapes. So we're going to move Iceland into the highest order of the countries into the digital public service. We have a three - year assignment to reach our goals in this regard. What we already have is a very broad link, but it especially keeps us off in comparison with other nations as to their lack of service. This is where you plan to add and speed up the induction of this project. It is estimated that only on this project can be done about 140-170 years of work. As we can see from the categories I have considered, there is a special emphasis on a wide range of projects. They immediately create new jobs, across society, and include them. to ordinary occupations, but others also work as in the field of knowledge. They expect support for national culture and sports. In view of the government, it is important that this project be used to create a new demand that is important in the situations that have developed. Just as there is a demand for a variety of jobs, there must be care for opportunities for the country to be built like the capital area, for men and women. We will put forth special emphasis on working with companies of all sizes and types and on the basis of which society is in the long term being strengthened. This is the fundamental difference between going into investment campaigns such as this, which can increase production and profitable projects and simply increasing the number of jobs at the government that by doing so, it is not the same guarantee that we will be able to promote ourselves as a community. All of these plans share in the fact that it is realistic to implement them immediately this year. Finally, I'm going to remind you that as the government plays out this special Senate resolution together with the budget bill for 2020, it is, as it has been announced, preparing for an even bigger investment campaign to be set up for the next three years. We've been on it before. There we can envision an effort of up to 60 billion in that period. It would be part of the financial program that takes place in the spring months before the council to go further into the stitches on that project. A respectable president. I suggest that once we have finished talking about the investment campaign, the case will be referred to. The Senate budget and the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u4	Mr. President. First, I'd like to say that the Union, of course, supports the projects that have been planned for, but we still wondered why not more is being placed in innovation at this point. We see that the newly created elephant in the bill is only 2 billion, which is 0.2% of the government's budget. This would be the injection that would be extremely important to us at this point. This is an injection that really just requires a pencil on the part of the council. We can decide to double, or triple, the fourfold technical fund, the research fund, and the reserve without warning. I'd like to ask you the highest. Ministers, why not have been put a little more power into the practical investments. We can see that the rural communities, whether looked toward the Southnes, north, west, or capital area, have provided information to the Ministry that more projects are available and could be attacked today. I know something comes more later, but now is the time to spit in and I find 15 billion very little at this point, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u5	A respectable president. I must deny that 15 billion people are at this point very little. If we just look at it and relate that this year's overall production of transportation is an enormous amount of injection. There is nothing that prevents rural society from coming along and going to speed up projects as well. We hope to do that, and we expect the countryside to do it. We're expecting the official budget to do the same. 15 billion are what we thought was practical for immediate action. It's April and three months from the year. We are looking to the next nine months, so we face the challenge of getting a huge amount of money out of here right now. I don't know if it's realistic to raise the four-fold competitive fund. A senator refers to him. We need a normal share ratio, but it's certainly a matter of opinion where to draw the boundaries. We've been doing this in recent years, just as we've been doing a lot of research and development. I suppose innovation is one of the main aspects of the government covenant, so I agree that it is an important case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u6	Mr. President. In the collapse of the bank, a government fund was fired the first year after a collapse of 216 billion dollars. tilted to a calculated 300 billion. That limp helped us to defend our well - being and our work. 15 billion are small in this context, this is 1.5% of the budget. We can do more, and we can do it now. The rural communities are ready for a project that could be addressed right now when it comes to the competitive fund. Technology fund is not a big bite, it's over 2 billion. We get information from a budget board that only one third of the projects that score the highest are donated from that fund. How easy it is for us to cope with this situation by placing bountifully in this fund! New birth is a key to such a state. There are innovations and practical public investments that will get us out of this. V.E.G. The minister of finance here has parapolitic support, I assure him, to place more money on practical investments that can be attacked now and even more in innovation. This is where all the allies are. Minister and I are the highest minister. A minister to take advantage of the resources he has here and among the people to put hard work in. [[The president calls.]] We certainly need it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u7	A respectable president. I'm not going to complain about being on the side, it's good just to get a lot of support from attacking things that are human resources and promoting demand. In the practical process, I think that what we are waiting for is a realistic view of how much can be accomplished. We have been in a special effort to build a land hospital, and we have not been able to make this amount each year. We've been more trying to dance around the 6 billion. It's a huge injection if you want to say that it's only easy to throw 30 billion in the second eight, nine months of the year. That's a misunderstanding. 15 billion is a large sum of money. I'm not going to belittle the importance of the funds, so we're growing the fund in this proposal. We're putting 400 million in both basic research and practical research, but it doesn't make sense to place this money in connection with the collapse. The Hall now has a completely different subject than this effort, and I would not be surprised if it reached 200 billion. [[The president calls.]] It is obvious that he will be far north of 100, but he could be completely 200, even more than that, this year. There's nothing to do with any investment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u8	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for reviewing this council-sense proposal. There are many good things in it, many good things, but the next talk will be better if you ask a few questions at the council. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to the amount of transport. Show these numbers of tasks as e.g. The road took place? Is this the amount the Roadmaker considered possible for this year, or was the number found first, and then tried to create some project into it? I feel that it matters the way methodology is used in this regard because the road model clearly has a perspective on where the need is and where it is not. Then I'd like to ask a minister if there's any contradiction in the fact that in the Senate resolution proposal, these projects are expected to be extended beyond the dates contained in the budget bill. It is conditioned that a project will begin by September 1, 2020, and it will be completed by April 1, 2021. Does this have to do with the budget - law bill itself?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u9	A respectable president. It is likely that, if I correctly understand the question, if the project has not been completed, it would be this way of thinking that a detriment of funds could be made to some extent possible. In many cases, we are discussing projects that will need to be continued. In fact, we expect them to be funded in the next financial programme and to be included in the next budget. Some of the projects that we are starting with this effort may be two, three years of work, so they will need funding in the years to come. We haven't gotten a list from the Vega type and asked, "How much money can you spend this year? and accepted all of it. Yet, what would be particularly costly and practical for this year's attack was considered. That's why hard work is important too. That's what we were most looking for.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u10	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. Surely, there are many things on this list that we have seen as well as in this council plan. I may be able to do so in my second talk. Not all of this, though. Some of this is about some investments that I can't see in any particular number of jobs, even though seagulls are purchased and replaced. It's wrong to say that it's a wonderful performance package when things like that are inside. It's fine, that's right, but we've seen bigger measures when it comes to economics and maybe we'll go over them later. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister is asked to determine how many jobs will be made in these procedures and where they will be created. Will it exist in the private sector or become part of the government? What's the ratio? Has this been examined? Did they evaluate this? It matters when we're going into a package like this that people realize how much remains.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u11	A respectable president. We have not made a complete assessment of how many jobs there are. I mentioned an example that in the software sector, we could create, based on Digital Iceland, 1403/4170 years of work. There are mainly programming jobs that would fit into the frame deals and that are all jobs in the private sector. All these activities are also being carried out in the private sector in a number of work at road work. Everything assigned from the competitive funds is won either in the college community or in the private sector, especially everything related to practical research. That's how you can keep counting. What stands out is that we have tried specifically to set priorities that will ensure future employment and increase the long - term profits of society. We can then continue to talk about it forever in itself how big a loan we should take in because we are borrowing to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u12	A respectable president. Let's just get on with our jobs and priorities. Pirata's priority order is to protect homes, ensure health care and innovation. Here we discuss the priorities of the government and the number of jobs we're doing. I'd like to ask you something about your priorities because there seems to be one point that has been forgotten. In a paper with the Senate resolution, the President's permission is made: ▪ It is important that projects demand different types of work, women as well as men, and spread throughout the country. But now, a respectable president, two thirds of this investment feast, or about 10 billion, should be involved in building projects and road construction, and at first glance it appears to be a very male task. It's hard to argue that these projects work professionally for women to match men. I'd like to ask a minister if there was a law on public financial matters regarding the gender of funds at the time of the work being conducted here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u13	A respectable president. It's, like I traced to my case, a suggestion without parallel. It is performed under very special circumstances, and in itself there is no law to determine that there will be a conquistador, as I am presenting it here. Somebody said it should have been a special song bill. Some of the points we discuss are also in another Senate document called a transport program here at the council and is thus arranged for some other year, so we are in all respects in a very special environment. But it was my idea that we would contribute this in a special council resolution so that the council would have a natural way of forming projects together and eventually decide the sum of the money through the utilities bill. I find this to be very democratic, although it may not be according to the strictest guidelines on public financial matters that I feel are not relevant for in this case. Building projects can carry out many women's activities, especially those involved in design and preparation. It's obviously very obvious, for example. in the architectal class of Iceland, a fine ratio of men and women.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u14	A respectable president. When it's an emergency, we're going to tie it up, and it doesn't matter how sexy the budget is. Not at all. Public financial law lists costs and benefits as well as priorities. If we were to work better under the law, would it not be easier to find the suitable and targeted tasks to respond to compromise in the right places? At present, such activities are actually found in our transport plans, where projects are far better off than in other areas. That is why this may be an investment, based on the construction and road, because it is the location of a project on public finances. If we had it in all the sectors involved in the budget, it would be a potentially more varied investment initiative and, for example, an investment. ... ofweapon.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u15	A respectable president. I think it's important to realize that when you're making decisions what the effect on them is. Here, with the best members of our system, we have gathered ideas for projects that can be used this year. It is then especially noted by a group of government officials, especially economists, in view of the guidelines I have been given here. However, the cost-and-benefit analysis will never be a direct science. This is largely based on economic assessments that can never be said to give a precise answer on a decimal. But I think if people put all the traditional standards on the projects listed here, their distribution, their species, and their nature, they will find that they are very successful in meeting these priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u16	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. Of course, we support the expansion of the official investments presented here. What I'm thinking, however, is that there's a lot more to it than we expected when this scheme was started, and the effects of Covid-19 have been significantly increased. This is an additional investor of 15 billion, and we can say that the direct injection in this first government tool package is 60 billion, about 2% of the total domestic product. We're looking at a down cycle that could easily be 5◯8%. In itself, there is no reason to compete for who pulls up the tireiest picture. We only hope for the best, but of course we do what we can to resist. The legal committee has a good discussion of making significant progress, and I ask: I would be able to consider on top of it. Ministers, to do exactly that, to make a substantial increase in this sum, that instead of 15 billion, we are talking about an additional 25 to 30 billion dollars this year?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u17	A respectable president. What I'd be worried about about going to a 30-440 billion extension in nine months is simply getting this money into work, hiring enough machinery, and getting the right price if you're gonna shove money into the contractor's sector. We could lose control of supply and demand. I don't think it's a good thing for us to get into a match for a commission in what we believe we can shove a lot of money into an investment in the economy. Much closer is the fact that we sit over it with calmness, asking: " What practical practical things are being accomplished, and what are those assignments? Some of the ideas that have flown in are simply still in the stage of not design at all. When there are tens of billions of people in this discussion, I think they are beyond the next year and that the discussion is at home in what we're going to work on in the next financial program. [[The president calls.]] The subject is referred to here, the indirect extent is severe, i.e. what comes through the automatic fluctuation, and we've been discussing whether there are 100 or 200 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u18	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. What Is Realistic? It is good to remember that in general an investment in the economy is about 20% of land production, about 600 billion. I think that investment will get a hell of a hit this year. The career that is going through a completely unprecedented dive will cut down all investments that may be possible. The building industry is said to be at freezing temperatures in these circumstances. You can see more and more clearly evidence that investments will be greatly combined. That's why I think we're gonna find a lot of room for another 15 billion. For example, a slow game would be to look more at our wands. At least we'll see The meaning of their lives. The payout on research and development costs could be increased. You could add to the competitive fund and other such. There I assume there are billions that could be published. It would be possible to spit on land hospitals immediately. I miss again and again, despite all the talk of others, that there is no emphasis on the expansion of nursing materials that could be made to produce several billion people. We haven't even mentioned a Smokey Lane that we've been talking about for 20 years. [[The president calls.]] I don't think that would ever be a better opportunity to do that than right now. I'm not afraid that there will be no chance of finding things, but I'm afraid that the more part is not willing to attack them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u19	A respectable president. We have said that we want to handle things this way now that we prefer to do more than less. Rather, when it comes to the investment that we will gain as a community, it is a good reason to be absorbed in these situations. We feel that we are doing so, although we can always argue on the exact whether it had been to 15 or to go to 18 or 20 billion. It is pointless to take that discussion deeply into consideration without having something in front of you to discuss, some ideas, some suggestions, some specific projects, and ask if it is practical to implement them. In terms of research and development, I have recommended one case after another to increase the allowance of companies to reduce the cost of taxes, and I support it whole - souled. The same is true of the fund. However, the question is, When have we reached normal proportions of distribution? All these practical projects need to be reviewed. [[The president calls.]] To my view, it is the commission of the Committee to examine the lists.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u20	Mr. President. No one is aware that Icelandic employment is now going through unprecedented times and that economic and social infrastructure will be tested much. Of course, the union supports all good ideas and measures. This is important in the action ahead of us that we focus primarily on the public and the country's homes. We need to keep in mind them while taking care of them. I'm particularly worried about small and medium-sized enterprises, which, of course, are the grieving part of Icelandic employment. I'm talking about micro companies with one to ten employees. We especially need to consider these people who are largely involved in travel services and also in other sectors of Icelandic employment. The members of the tourism agency have visited the panels, and they have said the situation slightly so that they are going through a disaster. The situation is far beyond the order of tourism, since demand for other services in other sectors of employment has also been very rapid. It's important that Keynes'problem of action and use of Keynes' ideology, is that we use the government budget to increase demand while the demand for private citizens is intertwined. We see that the government has presented 230 billion dollars. A pack of measures, on the other hand, large part of the pay may be made by public fees, credit responsibilities, or self - interest assessment, special savings. All right, if we take it off, the real injection of the state's funds at this point is only about one third of these 230 billion, 60◯70 billion. Ministers have said that they want to do more than less. I don't think it's in the council odor proposal that we're discussing here, nor in the budget bill we're still talking about. We can do more. Everyone agrees, all classes, and the nation calls for further action on the part of the government, and it truly is needed. We'll see if we just look at the investment rate that's not particularly high, about 15 billion. The total total budget of 1,000 billion is more than 15 billion at this point. What chef books does that make? I know there's a call here that we can do more than need now, and there's more to do. I'm not worried about that, like the highest. The secretary of finance spoke of, that money has to be crammed into the business or to a contractor. That's not the case. Today, there are projects that can be done for more than 15 billion. This knows the government because it has received memos from local societies that other projects can be attacked now. A rural society in the capital area has set priority priorities for projects that include early implementation. You can't find in this synopsis proposal. In addition, the South American community produced a 13 - page strategy on a project that could be considered. The same can be said of other places in the country. Now, the wheel of a job life that has slowed quite seriously to receive an injection from the government. The industrial organisations closely associated with their members have called for at least twice as much injection as you need to do in this case. We can do that. That's a series of actions and investments we can attack. That's why I encouraged the highest. A minister to take advantage of the responsibility of this council hall. He can surely receive support to put more money at this point in order to meet the blow. We've kept saying that, I think all the senators, that we're in this together. Let's solve this together. Here are some new projects and funds that can be developed right away. It is so easy to build up funds like a technology fund that is a key source of employment. It's over 2 billion. It's not bigger than that. We can see that money could be increased by just one piece of paper, one piece of paper, none of it needed to be designed, the opinions of the road and the Department of Transport, or anything like that. We can simply decide to build this fund. Technology fund is to receive only 400 million in this Senate resolution. That's not enough. In fact, it is far from enough. Technical Development Fund receives applications from people and companies but can only give money to 27% of the jobs that receive the highest ratings. There are so many projects that meet the requirements of the fund that are strict, but there are not enough funds to strengthen. Similarly, more money has been called for in reimbursement because of film making. It also makes jobs, Mr. President, so the funds are an enormous easy way just for us now, later today, to put more money in to promote innovation. It's a innovation that will help us get out of this. The magic word is new. Today, a lot of people are about to lose their jobs or go to a smaller proportion of jobs. Since there will be a great movement in the commercial market, it is now the opportunity of the public to demonstrate more of its share when it comes to innovation. You too can strengthen more culture, art, and sports. It's a special part of the council odor proposal. Everyone who wants to know that culture, art, and sports are getting a real hit right now. This is also something we can decide to add. It's not a big deal. I realize that it can be more complicated to engage in practical projects because they have to be asked out, designed and prepared, but again I repeat, considering the information we have at least there are more projects than 15 billion ready to go. Let me give you a few examples. There should be 400 million available in this document for health care institutions in the country. Indeed, it is possible to do better, and I especially want to mention the health care at Smokejanestown or the health care clinics in Akureyri and the departments there. These are the things we know very well, and we know who have visited these places and have been informed that these are prepared to attack. There are many good ideas, e.g. An operation plan for the Southnes. There have been reports of the Smokey Way and other roads. The nurse is a big deal. The number of nurses can be increased only now without even building one or more. There's room in nursing homes, but there's no money in the business. Only 1 billion are needed to finance 70 medical conditions. It creates jobs in the condition we are in, especially women's jobs. Bear in mind that jobs are not limited to traditional male activities. This creates work, mostly for women, but it also helps with the hospitals. This is an operation that we can immediately attack. Similarly, it is possible to have two nursing homes in Reykjavík, according to the local information. I'm just referring to some good ideas that can be applied relatively quickly. Electricization is imminent. To name the University of Art, it has been in the starting holes for a long time, and now there is an analysis of its best location, an ideal opportunity to attack it. The government has decided to build a rescue center. Let's put power in a facility that would unite the governor, the police, the public security, the National Guard, and the fire department. It's been a long time in preparation. These assignments I'm referring to are all well along in preparation. It is assumed that only 700 million will be given to me as one and a half bridge as I understand it. It's not that I know how to do two bridges, but as I understand it, it's a huge operation, but it's not that complicated. They can be attacked relatively quickly. A list of bridges certainly exists. Here, we could simply double or triple that amount. There are a lot of work I'm trying to do to clear up this platform, and, of course, will be doing on a budget, a project that we can do relatively quickly and effectively. That's what it's all about, Mr. President. I don't share my concerns with the highest. Minister that we have a problem finding a job. We'll do much more. Let us take advantage of the government's budget to soften this blow. I had a chance to answer to the minister before the first year of the crash, I think the highest. A president of finance was the Hall of State Fund 216 billion. If we grow up in current prices, it's about 300 billion. V.E.G. A minister is well aware that there will be a great limp on the wealth of the empire. It's perfectly normal in such conditions, but we need to spit a lot in practical projects, at least ... intheflight. We can agree to put more in the fund. I know there's a very good conversation within the budget board now that we do a little better at this point. I know it's the highest. A minister brings more prime radios, other funding later in the year, and so on. I'm promoting good works. He is responsible for this Hall of Congress and for the nation's putting more money here on the urgent task today, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u21	A respectable president. I am pleased to hear that tone about the importance of this matter, and I understand that people are eager to go further in some ways. Then my main concern is that people are realistic because we've been through three months of the year, and we're going to have financial and financial plans for the next year. It does not in itself work by placing money that will not be useful until the next year. That, in fact, is a discussion that belongs to the 2021 budget year. That's what I'm saying when I hear 30 billion more or something like that. I simply think after sitting over this, that document is not born without preparation, that it is completely unrealistic. I'd like to say about the angle of the past, compared to what's going on now, that humans have to look at only how it came to be in 2009, how it was put together. The government was forced to step into the financial system and spend enormous sums in order to restore the financial system, which was a large part of the angle at the time. If you're concerned that this year's cock won't be large enough, I think it'll soon flow from men because everything we see, last with a stage photo from the Navy bank yesterday, there's evidence that we're going into a very refreshing angle. If they want to add to the angle of some 30, 40, 50 billion, as I sense in the discussion here, they just need to pause and ask themselves, " How are we going to finance all of this? ' There needs to be some underlying thought about how to finance the angle that is inevitable, just because of what leads to a business crash in the state and a huge increase in taxpaying from social security. Then, if a person is going to add to some specific activity that is far beyond what we have been offering, he can begin to place in certain uncertainty of the sum of all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u22	Mr. President. Me and the highest. A minister does not have to argue about what is realistic and what is not. In fact, I should turn the answer to the minister and ask: If contractors, businesses, and societies believe that it is realistic to attack more investments now, then it is not the highest. Minister ready to face that? We can fight about it in this room, neither expert on roadmaking or competition funds, but if these people think they can use it now, it's not the highest. A minister to face that? That's a good way to go, isn't it? As I say, I'm no expert on what calls to double the road or bridge, but if the members working in that field tell us in the case of the committee that they could accept more money now, don't we just agree to do so? Is that not a good start? I agree with the highest. A minister says we need to be realistic. But with regard to the fund, it is perfectly obvious that putting more on it is practical and realistic. Before this blow, although they met high - grade criteria, a Technologies Fund did not succeed in carrying out what was available to him. These are not the big numbers, but Technologies Development Fund is an incredibly important phenomenon, Research Fund, Wood Fund, etc. It's all funds that are but a violation of the government, but they could be so useful at this point. Of course, one way or another they have to finance the angle and the highest. The minister has repeatedly brought it to light, owes the state funds not particularly much, and the balance is about Thirty percent of the nation's production that's jealous, and I'd like to give the highest commendation. Minister for achieving that position. Surely, then, there is room for debt to meet the state's palace, and then we should be careful to take advantage of it at the critical time we are on for the practicality.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u23	A respectable president. I think we're right next door. A senator that is not upbuilding to us that we are dealing with it here in a speaker's use of how much can be accomplished. But this list is designed with several points in mind that I have been referring to. First, it is realistic to implement these issues this year. But there is something else that we are looking at, so that is not the only question that needs to be answered, Can we get the money out this year? We are trying to look at projects that meet the situation in the economy so that we are especially looking at activities that involve human activity. They have become more important than others. Of course, this list can be identified as a variation from that emphasis. I'm not going to say it's completely clear, reserved solely according to the human need for each project, but it was very much looked forward to it. Third, we need to keep our eyes on how profitable our investments are. I think, for example. it is not of particular importance now to take some projects that are in the long future, something in the discussion, and to speed up the year 2020 that will not add to society's profit. Then we should take another matter. These are some of the principles that we've wanted to look into that I think men should continue to try to support in the council's work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u24	Mr. President. I agree that because unemployment is beginning to grow, we need to set priorities and set our priorities for a man - made industry. When 10,000 people are out of work in Iceland and 30,000 straight jobs are in Icelandic tourism. Can you imagine, 30,000 people getting hit right now, that's what I'm talking about. We see that the pros and prospects of students for spring and some are falling apart, so somehow we need to face such a limited group when it comes to business. So I agree that we have to contribute to the harrowing of tasks involving both genders. Everyone agrees that we need to keep our glasses on when it comes to their work. Then there are the other tasks that may not be worth the human life but that are profitable, of course that are just new and green. You may not want to be negative at this point, but it is disappointing for green solutions and research and innovation to obtain more than 2 billion. Remember, we have 1,000 billion in budgets for this crisis, so here we can put a little more on, and especially on the subject of profit, because it's the highest. A minister mentioned it. It's a innovation that's gonna get us out of this, innovation in agriculture, fishing roads, energy, technology. It is a innovation that young people will turn to, and older people will like. That's what's the password, innovation, innovation, innovation. Then there are other opportunities, like nursing homes. We have a memo on a budget board that already makes it possible to attack 70 new homes without building a single new house. Of course, we need to build more room, and this is a treasure of human life than it is. To decide here that there will be only 70 nurses by putting only 1 billion more into the business. This relief will come at the hospital, which is now under extraordinary stress. We will consider it a little more closely in a budgetary committee, but financial contributions do not fit in with health care at this point. [[The president calls.]] I'm hoping we can do that, because it's so obvious that the cost is growing in the health system today. Again, I reiterate the cooperation of the United States to support good business, but we would like more ideas to face the unprecedented position we are in, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u25	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for this background on this vital task that we all face and need a steady reassessment because things are changing rapidly. The effects of the tremendous contractions we are facing because of the Covid-19 epidemic remain in all sectors of society, and thus the response of the Generalis needs to be rapid. The economy is dropping rapidly, and there is virtually no demand. For example, the organization of industry said that it was a business organization that said that it was a business organization. at a hearing with a financial committee that they had never seen anything like it, we could see the tens of us shrinking into national production, even more than in the collapse of 2008 and 2009. In larger industrialized countries, up to 10% contracts. It is therefore of utmost importance, Mr. President, to speed up the investments that you can quickly and reroute. But they must be varied and correct, and I agree with them by the highest degree. Ministers that they need to be profitable as well. The lack of employment is growing rapidly and is becoming a major change in the job market. Sadly, in the community there is a group who do not live in security when problems arise. The contraction could be even greater than you think it would be. The World Bank Fund says that at best, the recession will be the same as in the financial crisis 2008◯2009. At best. It was found at a meeting of the labour board with the Industrial Association that half the members of the organization have financial problems. It will be difficult for many companies to pay their dues in the coming weeks and months. So the investment package that we discuss in this synoptic arrangement is of utmost importance. We can then debate whether he's powerful enough. But we have discussed it within the legal committee that it would be necessary to increase this total amount and add to the work. I'd like to thank the chairman of the budget board for being open to all suggestions in that regard, and there I'd like to cooperate with us in the lesser part. Classes and I have provided suggestions and then other classes in the smaller part of the section, and these suggestions are now considered in the Committee. I expect and I hope to see that there are some suggestions that can be applied and added to this investment package. We in the Middle East may not be talking about the need to add dozens of billions this time because there will be more rescue packages coming later this year. But some billions can be added to projects that are already ready and that could be of great importance. I'm not going to, Mr. President, be specific in this council resolution, just saying that we in the Middle East support them fully and emphasize that they will come to work as soon as possible and thus be used to minimize the economic losses we face in the nation's economic affairs. We support these suggestions wholeheartedly, hoping that they will be listened to our suggestions in the same way that we are willing to cooperate fully with them. Happily, the wealth of government is well equipped to cope with these tragedies, and this allows us to expand our public investments in most areas. It is simply so, Mr. President, that it is the social responsibility of the state funds to present handsomely in unprecedented circumstances. It was also noted by the Associations of Industrialism that the building market is nearly frozen. In that sector, some 16,000 are active. It would also be possible to attack apartment investors through a so - called share loan. This was shown at the meeting. This is also the case with this discussion that it is important to encourage citizens of the country to trade national and domestic services and to choose Icelandic. This has a lot to say. Defending our jobs is a common interest in all of us. It's about 43,000 people in industry, about 16,000 in the construction sector, as mentioned, and about 17,000 in production and 12,000 in the software industry. Thus, these are enormous numbers of classes that we are discussing, and these efforts are of great importance to them. How important it is to deal with your contractions in a handsome way! The industrial organisations suggested a meeting of the budget committees to raise this investment package by about 30 to 6 billion dollars. They also mentioned that the government's deferral fences were too high. There is something that needs to be examined. I decided that a minister called for some practical suggestions. I agree, and he also pointed out that reviewing this was the project of the committee. And I just reiterate what I said before, Mr. President, that we are all invited and prepared by the Committee and in the smaller parts to cooperate, offer suggestions, and try to find the projects that are already ready and can be attacked. There are a number of tasks that are ready, design finished, etc., that can be attacked, which are not included in these packages. We've put it up at a meeting of the Committee, and I really hope it's going to be examined. I'd like to state that I believe that it is normal for land induction to arrive at this investment package in some way, a very powerful company that has reduced construction in recent years. The same is true of the hosts, it is essential that they increase their implementation in the light of this. Again, I stress that the state's debt is good. She's about. 27% of GDP reminds me that in Italy it is 130%, so people see that we are really in an envious position to cope with the unprecedented conditions in society. Then we should take advantage of the extent to which we have the opportunity to bring in handsomely by means of public investments in order to minimize the damage done. Therefore, Mr. President, I believe that this package can be added well. And once again I repeat that the Central Party is truly willing to bring all the work required to make it a reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u26	A respectable president. Maintenance and improvements in real estate 2 billion. New construction and major renovations 700 million. Transporter for 6.2 billion. Energy exchange, green solutions and environment 1.4 billion. Another project 1.6 billion. Research, innovation, and creative branch of 1.75 billion. Digital Iceland and information projects 1.35 billion. At last, in an emergency, information projects that have been called for years can be carried out. Many of these projects, as one minister puts it, are practical to do so this year. The reason has been that they have been called for these privileges for many years. They are finally practical when it comes to an emergency. That's interesting to me. And when it comes to doing more but less, it is good to consider the context there. A total of 15 billion are in an investment campaign that could be described as the first government's response to a contraction that many predict will be worse than the collapse of the past. Overall, it must be said that these packages contain some things that are good, but I am quite thinking about priorities. The underlying position in the campaign seems to be a very large drop. Slick, drop, and drop. A little malbak too, but most of it goes into a different kind of project. In fact, the green solutions called concrete solutions are also high - and that are not partially crushed. Two thirds of this investment campaign are dropped and crushed. I will not minimize the importance of the products proposed, but these are all projects that have not been obtained from the government until now. All of this is an assignment that has not been made in the financial or transport program until now, although it has been requested for quite some time. Although there is much good in this record, there are obvious holes in this investment plan. For example, we need a lot of access to innovation and information technology. In this context, I would like to agree with the firms of industry, which have suggested that the estimated extra productions in Technical Development Fund could be regarded as just a drop in the ocean. Technological Development Fund has been found to have only funding to support 27% of applications evaluated by the fund to the highest rate as a desired project in the last application cycle. The Technical Development Fund has about 2 billion, so there is a 70% addition of projects that have the highest grades that would only be very easy to support, obviously ready for work. The activities of the industry provide $3 billion, which should easily be made into this fund exclusively, let alone all the rest of the funds, such as Research Fund, Industry Fund, Regional Application Plans, Environment Funds, and Others. The opportunity is right in front of us, but the government chooses concrete. In fact, concrete is a gender error and an environmental error in a government fund, in my opinion. It is predictable economic depression ahead, and it seems to who it will be about how deep it will be, while many expect a worse decline than in the 2008 economic collapse. At the same time, we are expected to be dealing with environmental problems and to carry out our commitments to international agreements. There is nothing that can harm economics as such. There is an opportunity, so there is not something we should ignore. The government plan describes a total of 1.4 billion in energy exchange, green solutions, and environment. But I think the government holds free its interpretation of what appears to be an environmental and green solution. Encouraging 1.4 billion in about one third or 500 billion. K. Even to exchange energy for rentals, heavy transport by country, and electricalization is to be turned down. The same 500 million should be used in increasing efforts to bind carbon by foresting, agriculture, and recovery of wetlands. All who want to know that these projects are far more expensive than 500 million and easily this year. I'm not minimizing the need to build footpaths, e.g., which are classified as green cases, the structure of walkways within the reservations for 315 million. In recent years, the disturbance in various places has caused tremendous damage. It is certainly good for the environment to reduce the risk of continuing damage by measures like this. National park building gets 300 million. It can be classified as an environment, but hardly, it's more transport and infrastructure. Jackion receives 50 million people in parking lots, along with fences, aqueducts, and fiber optics. It is also a little difficult to define these projects as environmental. CA, rural development, 200 million people get it. Isn't this an internal issue rather than an environmental issue? Granted, the consequences of poor irrigation are bad for the environment, but this is simply a matter of meeting demands. The suggestion says that there is a great need for building up in this series of languages. There's nothing new. The question is, How far can it be said that the government's interpretation of what really constitutes the environment is? At least I sense a certain green laundry in this account. There is also concern regarding sexual error. We are to have the sex of money and, as a result, fuel money laws under official financial laws. The need for this condition is well reflected in the investment campaign. Clearly, two thirds of the amount of money seems to go on jobs that largely produce men, and it seems that men earn most of their profits. The last time I checked, it was about as many men as women in this country. Or is this perhaps a man's crisis we're about to fall into? We'll see about the next few days just unemployment amongst men? If so, it may well be very sexy with funds, but it doesn't seem to me. It is also interesting to me that there are no minds on two obvious problems with government proposals. It is a protection for the health - care system at home and for the funding of the medical system. Although the late bank says inflation goes down, no defense has to be made before the damage is done. Such precautions prevent corrective foam, such as during the last recession, since they received most of the help they needed. Let's do this up front now. It would be better to do so. It's also time to consider the educational system. The next fall is a predictable pressure on education system, based on predictions of unemployment. There is an opportunity to make a good contribution to the field ministry and to make voluntary donations. All of this also tells us that this government with feminists and kidnappers in charge was not ready for any big investment project that is green and commercial for women, e.g. It wasn't even a large green feminist project on the drawing table. I'm saying this because here the emphasis is clearly placed on a project that is available, is ready to get started this year. Of course, it is important to double the bridge and asphyxle roads. I also feel that it is important to restore the national airports, restore 6 billion of them for transportation, and 2 billion for maintenance of buildings. It's all important. However, there is a set of priorities reflected in the government's investment campaign that brings attention to the streets of the government. Although I'm a fan of some of these plans, such as that it's finally to promote avalanche control and strengthen our infrastructure against the storms we saw the other day, I miss many of the things we're going through. Now I'm not saying that the government shouldn't double every bridge in the country, but you might want to see what it takes for the overall population, at least you may place as much in innovation as in green solutions. The opportunity exists there, as shown by the Technical Development Fund. I don't see that there's a plan to build up a climate fund. Why not? Why do research, innovation, and creative articles need only 1.7 billion injections when we know that these articles are the future, when we know that these are profitable investments? Only a technology fund could take all this money, 1.7 billion, and get it into a lucrative new creation project and a pioneer in a moment. Pirates stress a few points at this point. We need to secure defenses for our country's homes. There are delicate groups to consider, not forgetting any groups now that were lost. Let us consider sensitive groups at this point, that the elderly, the farmers, the poor, the students, the tenants, all whom we forgot in the last crash. In this case, medical funding and access to the health system need to be ensured at this time. Eventually, all aspects of the community and all parts of the country have to be brought to an end. You have taken some steps to keep companies alive, but there is no predictable cover for homes if everything goes wrong, which can happen very suddenly. Because of the epidemic, there is a predictable health system cost. There is no cost to financing now rather than to do so afterwards. There is a positive tone on a budget committee, and I look forward to seeing the council handling these matters. I sincerely hope that a positive tone will return in good suggestions for the council, but we ask for a conclusion, thus showing that various positive sounds have returned in a different way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u27	V.E.G. President. Like others, I want to thank you for the subject that is being discussed and that you are being treated. I'm not drawn to saying that a lot of things in this case are nice, there's a lot of good suggestions. I'm going to go through them, though, just because I think it's necessary to get a sense of them. I miss the fact that there is no attempt to produce information on how many jobs to be made in these operations and where to make them. I have a feeling that some of these actions will lead to a job that may not be needed, e.g. ... ina statehouse,allthething. I'm just worried that it wasn't appreciated. It is not good to realize how much of this money will remain in the government, i.e. Go out and come back in. The funds would have had to go out and stay there to get the most out of them. I miss not much about the construction industry, and electrical cables aren't part of the infrastructure that's supposed to be going to the building, etc. You have this feeling that the art I'm going to go through was won, so people met up with lots of wishes, put them on the table, and then they tried to sort into the 15 billion - billion box so that everyone could get something. It's a bit of a smell like there was a meeting where they tried to share things out. It says that since the budget was submitted, some of the fine things mentioned here are not going to run out within the amount of time given and therefore will not be useful in the months to come. As indicated by the synopsis proposal, it has already been said that a project can be extended to the next year, despite the fact that it was conditioned in the budget bill that work would be completed at the latest on April 1, 2021 but had to be completed on September 1, 2020. On page 18. 4 Explained on the case, it is important that the project demand all kinds of work, women and men alike. No one can see that they have achieved something special, but it seems to me that everyone in the government has something to do with it. On page 18. 5 In preparation or design cases, this is referred to. So it is assumed that considerable amounts of these funds, which would have had to go to work immediately and create jobs, go to design and preparation. Then you wonder where that work will be done. Is this a design or preparatory work within the institutions of state, within the council? Which of these goes out to a private person? Then I'm just gonna go through a few of the suggestions because I don't understand some of this. Maybe it's just my problem not to understand it. This refers to the responsibility of the Kingdom, the maintenance of various Kingdom property. In one place it says: 'Environment of the Management Board's tasks'. How many jobs will reorganize the members of the Council create? It also speaks of the design and restoration of a council hall. I don't know what to say in this fancy conference hall. I hope some people are going to get a job doing painting or getting up again, but it's just a nice room. On page 18. 7 then says that the plan is to build a new nursing unit in Húsavík. They've probably been up for quite some time. Do you have any drawings? Will we be sure that we will be doing this work that is of great importance? Why, then, there is no more construction work in these suggestions, such as. building other areas of nursing that are missing in many parts of the country? On page 18. 8 The design and preparation of all kinds of work are mentioned. Is it design and preparation that the Road program will take care of and go to the Vega type, or will engineering agencies take care of all of this? It says again about the Vega Make-up, by permission of Presidents: ▪ In the wake of a storm during winter, there is a need for a renewal of various systems and measures. Enlightenment of roads, weather and sea layer information systems, re-create waves... A respectable president. I can't quite figure out how to make the jobs we need. This includes 150 million who may not be so high, but they are still investment projects, and I cannot quite see what it means to try to create jobs on the big unemployment that is obviously ahead - renewing waves. On page 18. 9 The speed of infrastructure is referred to as the speed of transport energy exchange. I'll get to read the sentence: ▪ The aim of the project is to speed up infrastructure in order to contribute to land transport energy change and to the need for land activities. What are these sums of money going to do? Are they going to go to companies like Energy Nature, who are building a loading station or what are they going to do? Then it says: ▪ In particular, cars loads and heavy transports will be made and electricalizations will be turned down. There are 500 million in all of this. This also involves efforts to bind carbon from forestry, land healing, and the recovery of wetlands. It is difficult to see what is really going to be done in the works listed. How will people make their jobs in land rentals and heavy transports? Then there is one suggestion, a respectable president: ▪ Build up a place for national parks. A study is to build up and improve the position of Lake Bay Park on Skaftfell. There is also the matter of building a facility on Lake Mysia. - There's 300 million there. Then there's one of the best projects, I have to say, as it is, that men get an enormous amount of money with a proposal of about 50 million in the first phase of the construction of infrastructure on the glacier through the construction of parking lots, roads, demandings, and straits. I don't know who this first leg is exactly, but he's not all of this. On page 18. 10 Talks about Iceland's project light - related, extra effort. Sure you have to plow strings and connect, something happens there, but I would have liked to see the electrical strings too, i.e. improving the national electrical security. Then there is an investment for management and coordination of infrastructure, a complex operation to better control and coordinate the infrastructure. I just don't understand how this is going to make any special jobs. On page 18. 11 says, with permission from the President: To ensure global competitiveness in scientific work and research environment with improved financing. I can't figure out what the job is. This is certainly important to the future, but I cannot see that this will help us with our work during this month or in August. The brochure was written to provide information on a variety of ways that gifts may be made either now or through a bequest at death. It is very good to encourage domestic gardening, but why is it not a matter of reducing energy prices to gardening? It would be no less important than this point. Then you will put money in the registration of cultural memory, which is definitely important and good. There's talk of Digital Iceland and all that, and it's put into all kinds of work and investments, it's nice not to cut back on the streets of the country, but then there's something called a Senate puzzle: ▪ A political puzzle is part of the development of digital services for the country's elected representatives where all the data related to their Senate work are in one place. There are 65 million. I hope some programmers get this job, but I think very much about the suggestions that have been made. I must say, Mr. President, I think this smells like bullshit to me. I think the government is preparing to set up a matter that can be used, not soon, but the next fall and the next winter when the election begins. I don't like it if I do. What needs to be done immediately is making money for human life. A home needs to be built. It is necessary to go to different corners of the streets and the like, and then, of course, to talk to the most damaged tourist attractions about what really matters to them. We need to be ready when the land opens again. I'm sorry, but I don't find the suggestions that are being taken very well on today's situation. This is more and less one wishes list from the government's councils.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u28	Mr. President. Here we will discuss suggestions on a special temporary investment initiative in which special projects are expected to be spent at 15 billion dollars. Conditions are said to be special, and as a community, we are trying to cope with a shock that at this very moment we do not know exactly how much will happen. Yet, it is clear that it will be significant. In this situation, it is vital that we take to heart the advice that gives all of us, our professional, and the public the country, confidence that we are doing what is reasonable and are doing enough. In later stages, it is better to be able to reduce the need for action that was not needed. The suggestions presented here are excellent in many ways. There are a lot of good in them. I still think it's necessary to do better, and I think it's also very important that we think for a short time, which is the most urgent thing to deal with, but also for a long time. We must not forget what we've forgotten at times in the past, that the variety of jobs is enormously important to us. We now see that the biggest blow will be in the tourism service, which has been building up extremely quickly. We've become very dependent on travel services. In the past, other sectors became so large and extensive, and I think it would be very good to consider, in the long run, trying to change and make the job more varied. That's why I think it's very important that we think of something new in our country. We feel that it is realistic and reasonable to take action that will be of shorter duration, especially to the long term. In this regard, we think it is wise to raise a so - called remuneration roof for research and development, which is so that companies who are involved in innovation and development can obtain tax deduction because of such a job. I think it's very important that we raise it to further research and innovation. Similarly, it is important that we direct funds to finance, such as technology in development. There is a possibility that these funds, which have done a great deal of good, are the ratio of applications that get strength very low. There's a range of 10◯14%. Clearly, very many good ideas and projects do not get started, although they have been counted worthy, but money simply does not exist. Other tasks that are also urgent, such as, e.g. investing handsomely in and starting a building in nursing homes We know that there is a great shortage. Building a nursing home, therefore, helps to solve the problems we faced before, a workforce. It is a means of transportation that needs to be addressed, and it is also very important that we consider implementing projects that are profitable and that at the same time create work. It can be done better in our view. These include such projects as bridges at Alphia and the Horn of the Earth. This should take immediate action. It can be done. In general, I think it's right to say that here are suggestions that some of them are very good, different and could put question marks with others. At this point, I think it's very important that those of you who are going to do this talk up, put a punch together, and try to improve these suggestions. We feel that there is a need for improvement, that we need to move a little, or even a substantial, emphasis on these investments. I'm convinced that if the government listens to and the government fails, we can improve this and then we can create a strategy in this field that will benefit us at the end of the day. My name is the government and the government's position to come together. It's best to be able to do this peacefully. Of course, there are differences in emphasis, but in the end, I think that it should be possible to achieve good results for society in these difficult times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-26-83.u29	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the labour management, loyalty and security laws associated with CE markings on the personal guard. The bill is presented in the light of the conditions in which there is great uncertainty due to the crown virus causing the Covid-19 disease. This uncertainty has even been exposed to the unsuspecting point. to see if there is sufficient supply in Europe on the instruments and equipment necessary to prevent the spread of the disease as well as to treat infected persons. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that the government work programme can guarantee that a reasoned request for a non-CE-marked identity shield can be obtained due to the spread of the Covid-19 disease. The objective of the bill is to ensure that there is no shortage of land on the necessary personal shield for healthcare professionals to control as much as possible the spread of the Covid-19 disease and to cope with the consequences of further outbreaks of the disease. However, emphasis is placed on importing the personal shield without CE markings ensures that the shields meet established safety and health standards, although they are not CE marked. Therefore, before granting access to the import of the work programme, the Agency will assess whether or not the personal protective equipment involved in each case meets the established safety and health requirements deemed necessary for such equipment. It is not expected that the expanded CE marking will apply to the general import of the personal guard but only to personal guard which is necessary for the health system associated with the spread of the Covid-19 disease. Because of the temporal nature of the situation, the changes proposed in the bill are also expected to be for a fixed period or to the end of this year. In this case, the subject of the bill is in line with the Commission's recommendation on the compliance assessment and Marketing Authorisation Management in relation to the impending risk due to the Covid-19 disease. A respectable president. The impact of the bill is primarily that adequate personal protection for healthcare professionals in this country can be ensured despite the potential lack of such equipment in Europe. Is this particularly important in view of the rapid decline in personal shield supply in the country and uncertainty as to whether CE-marked personal protective manufacturers can provide another demand in the EEA under current conditions and not at the end of the world. So I strongly emphasize that this bill will be adopted at the General Assembly as soon as possible and suggest after this discussion the case will be referred to. The welfare committee.
