ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u1	A respectable president. I'm here to discuss a vote on this specific change proposal, but it's proposed because one word was raised at 13. the bill, i.e. The word "companyed " had slipped into the text, which was reserved for clinics only. So these are technical adjustments, and no further explanation is needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u2	Mr. President. Here is one of the issues that did not get adequate treatment on the welfare committee because of lack of time, unfortunately, little wants more than that in a reasonable way. It will be seen after 2nd. Make adjustments because some words are overcrowded. But this is not the only problem with this matter. National surgeon's advice, against the advice of all health - care professionals working at Land Hospital and other aspects of the Lodge in a land hospital and how this kind of work is built up, so we can't support this operation. This case is not mature enough, there would have been a need for a better job and a better review on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u3	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. The head of the welfare committee, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, said that this case was sadly under way, so I'm not at her committee. It's kind of sad to know that we're in the situation of winning the case so fast and bad that it's not really possible to accept it because it's a good thing and could have been done in harmony, but unfortunately it's not right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u4	Mr. President. We talked about this fine thing here at the Assembly Hall for ten hours, I think, yesterday. This is a matter related to the energy exchange in the second, and one of the main changes is the changing role of Energy Fund which is no longer determined to support projects that reduce fossil fuels use, but also projects that contribute to energy security and competitiveness in energy, and energy related tasks in line with government emphasis and policy. This is a government program that contributes to a powerful exchange of energy over the years in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u5	President. The purpose of the law and its objective is very good. By switching to this energy exchange, fossil fuels use reduces but increases the use of domestic renewable energy and energy security. The increase in Iceland's competitive prenup is about the energy, the climate policy is seen, and the local policy is seen, I can't even remember the other policies, yes, it's the innovation policy, and someone else, so it's very broad. It's a good purpose. What we have criticized is one factor. The minister proposes a legal bill, and the law comes here, how to have this, the Minister appoints all three members, but the Regulation is on how to divide the fund, to whom to consult, which is only the Power Institute, and possibly any other party, if necessary, verse what is done elsewhere, e.g. for the Technical Development Fund. A lot more parties must be accessed. I spoke to a minister yesterday about this, and now just before, that a minister has a possible route, since the committee decided not to do it legally, that it would be possible to have a professional consultation and some part to close a moral problem. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But a minister might mention that plan here at the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u6	President. We're having jaundice on the matter because of what I mentioned about the management of the fund as to the lack of potential professional views and the present moral problems. We've been in green with the change, which was good. Hv. Friðbertsson Njáll Trustinbertsson recorded it from the Society of Industrialism, which called for increased transparency in this respect, reducing the problem of temptation to some extent. Still, it remains that there is a minister who gives the law bill, a minister gives the regulations on how this should be done, the Minister appoints these three members. They only need to consult the Power Institute and possibly someone else. This is the situation, so this fund can distribute a quarter of a million dollars, and it has. If there's some sort of boiler up, it's the responsibility of those who accept the case here and are responsible for the minister. But I heard a minister - I thought she was going to come up here and discuss this now, but there may have been some misunderstandings between us - that she was interested in putting in the Regulation some kind of professional advice and starting testing things there. The minister nods, so I'm right in this regard. So there is a possibility that someone will be shot before this in the treatment of a minister of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u7	A respectable president. Here we will vote for changes in the laws on loyalty and pollution. The Environment and Transport Committee contributes to significant changes in the bill and stresses the importance of maintaining the focus of the bill on simplifying and clarifying the subject, while pointing to an overall review of the current law, with the importance of developing monitoring as closely as possible. And that the government's central government, which says government agencies, plans to coordinate and give government support and guidance where necessary, and that there will be increased emphasis on electronic administration to ensure harmonization in the service and monitoring across the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u8	Mr. President. I'm here to explain a committee party with a change in bill proposal to legalize cooperation projects. It's been known to be a PPP project. This is a six - part project that falls under this bill. It is the round road of the northeast of Selephos and the bridge of the Elfuráus, the corner of the river, and the bridge of the Horn of the Earth, the Axes Road of the East, a double Hölfjörður, a highway around the Mýrdal, and a tunnel in the mountain of test, and at the end of the Sunwater. All of these are different assignments. Two are animals, if we put it that way, but the other four, who are mainly round projects and then Axes Road, are of a different nature, are much less expensive and more related to the traditional activities of the Vega they have practiced for years. I'm going to read here, with President's permission, first just from the committee's opinion to set the tone. It says: The bill suggests that a new set of co-works on road projects will be adopted. According to this, the Road Building is authorized to negotiate with a private member of the joint work on specific transport projects listed in Article 1. The bill. Then the bill suggests that reimbursement will be granted at costs for their implementation. It will be permitted, in part, to finance the construction work through the construction work involved. The road can assign privates with a cooperative contract to cancel the contract during the contract period. The road will also be permitted to establish a special company with the role of remuneration, after incidents while caring for individual aspects of cooperation, or to hide a special member of the State in that role. And then the raisin comes in the hot dog tip: ▪ At the end of the contract, there will be monuments, along with all the property of the state, without a special price. So that is, in a sense, the Cradle tunnel model. So says the following: To the Commission it was a general pleasure with the bill, including the representatives of the rural society, where it is proposed that the projects authorized to negotiate on the basis of Article 1. The bill. It was generally encouraged that the bill would be agreed as soon as possible to engage without further delay. It would be reasonable to consider a wide variety of funding, and road expenses could speed up projects that would result in a positive impact on urban development. At the end of this section: ▪ Road construction provisions have not been sufficient to meet an increased need for the construction of the road system. Clearly, a number of important projects will not be started in the next one to two decades unless there are other methods of financing. At the very end, it says: To stimulate economic and economic development throughout the country, it is important that a lucrative investment project be undertaken in this country. Investors in the country's road system are made that way. Then there's a section in general on currency and I'm going to grab hold of it, with the permission of a president: While community opinion is on making roads, with a wide range of funding, the money should be able to speed up sectoral development, promote development, increase economic growth, competitiveness, and safety of road users, and benefit from the fight against climate change. And at the end of this general chapter, it says: The ◯ The more part emphasizes that when deciding on a roads, it will be carefully taken in order to ensure that road users are helped to open the target, to keep the guards equal, and to get paid in place so that road users will be provided in all cases at least as much or more than the cost of their use. In this regard, it is important to consider the amount of money paid in terms of payment, which may include: assessment of travel time saved, improved traffic safety, and reduced distances. I would like to state, Mr. President, that this is, of course, one of the core elements of the concept of currency, i.e. in any case at least as much or more than the cost of their use. I would like to add that the river is based on the actual cost of using the short - term vehicles. Then, consider the arrangements that were paid and collected. -Thirty-three. The bill has authority to finance a roadside cooperation project. The volume of the wording of the law suggests that various aspects of the agreement will be implemented according to the most appropriate work, to form the proportion of funding at the expense of the total cost, and to each State - owned partner, a charge of the individual activity covered by the project takes place. The transport projects described as an extended cooperation project in Article 1. The bill is very different in its nature, in its circumstances, and in the amount of traffic, as well as in the preparation and position of an organization and a transport program. The majority reminds us that the road construction process relies on the initiatives given on the bill, except for the construction of the Sunways and the double Hölfjörður tunnel, is a standard road project, which makes it useful to continue with a more varied work on road construction projects than the two tunneles of the previous year. I also remind you that there was a view on the part of a visitor that would need to take a further look at the characteristics of stress and collect roads in the bill. In this regard, the viewpoint was presented on the need for caution. The bank of roads would have to be simple, efficient, and secure, consistent nationally and kept to a minimum. A transport and local government memo reports that reimbursement will be implemented in the agreements made by the Road making on cooperation projects and that negotiations can be taken into account by the comments received in the handling of the case. Despite the high flexibility the bill offers in the implementation of cooperation, however, a specific framework for the projects is set, e.g. that the currency will be up to a maximum of 30 years and that the choice will be different. Qualifications indicate that the export will be comparable throughout the country. It is evident, then, that traffic flow will be maintained only by spontaneous remuneration. The creation of land - to - land currency systems is simple in that the road system is not linked to the roads of other countries, making it easier to collect. Experience in Norway has shown that the cost of remuneration has declined over the past few years, and the implementation of currency will be regarded as the experience of neighboring countries and of European standards that apply to it. Then the memo says that the main purpose of the flexibility of the bill is to allow space to find the most practical solution, including arrangements, and if available collect roads. In view of the greater part, it is important that the most practical way for society should be taken into account by the Member States' income-financing agreements and the financing of projects. Source Article three. the bill provides sufficient space for this goal to be met. In this article, you will find a section on objective responsibility, with the permission of a president: ▪ As determined by 1 mg. has the owner of a vehicle or its handler's responsibility for paying a road tax. This includes the objective responsibility of the owner or manager, i.e. The responsibility to pay a road tax, regardless of who is a driver of a vehicle who uses money related to construction. The committee held the view that objective responsibilities of this kind would have an unfair, illogical effect on short - term worker drivers. [...] The experience of a company who rents vehicles to less time because of such objective responsibility would be very poor.How bad! According to the Department of Transport and Division's memoirs, examples are responsible for the owner and driver of a vehicle's licenses, including the U.S. by 3 mg. Section 6. Implementation of stocks on road construction, No. 97/2010. On this basis, objective responsibility rests for drivers and drivers who drive through a Valalead tunnel. It is noted that drivers are generally responsible for paying road fees in Europe and the United States. Thus, it is well - known in the countries that tenures were handled by the management department in collecting roads. Then the memo says that it would be difficult to collect unsolved traffic fees from drivers, where it may be difficult to obtain information about them by means of cameras. The main purpose of this bill is to ensure simple, efficient, and safe collection of roads. Because of the nature of the roads, which are for the sake of public interest, the Ministry considers it normal that the regulations of the bill remain unchanged. So here's what it says: THE committee found that in overall terms, collections in the Valale-holes were successful, and rentals have generally paid the tax and have continued to collect from rents. So the majority feel that it is right to agree with the Ministry's viewpoint. He recommends that careful consultation be made with stakeholders in this subject and that it will be negotiated as the most efficient and most practical way to collect. It was an objective responsibility. So here's a chapter about a so-called law. In Comb 4. The bill says that the road and the extra load should rest as a law on vehicles that are not due monuments without paying for their access, and that they go above all the solemn commitments for one year from the loss of the fee, except for expenses to the state. The Committee held the opinion that by the law the rights of companies and persons who are owners or drivers of vehicles and those who have legalized or other driver's licenses to form insurance companies and financial companies were severely handled. Furthermore, it was noted that the legal right could hardly pass the Constitution, and the legal rights would be considered an unregistered violation of property. This multicited memo responds to these views, stating by Mr. President's permission: ▪ The purpose of the law comes from time to time. to ensure that the most successful result is when a cooperative project is made. In preparation for projects, uncertainty is reduced by the ability to collect charges safely. The issue of the entire community is that an economic agreement is less dependent on uncertainty about individual factors, and it is suggested that legal requirements be ensured. The Convention on Cooperation includes the implementation of risks and responsibilities from the government to the private person and thus as a form of cooperation is considered to be of national importance and practical importance, which is exactly the only requirement for the legislation of the legislature in certain holdings. All evidence supports the challenge of a vehicle's course. The memo underlined views on the uncertainty of the law's right level of law and suggests that insurance spending goes beyond legal expenses. In the process of subsidence, the majority agree with the above opinions of the Ministry on Legal Affairs and contribute to Article 3. Section 4. the bill will be adjusted according to the motion proposed in the memo, i.e. That insurance will work. The next is a short line on priorities, and I'm not gonna tire out. Congress is supposed to go through it very accurately. However, it states that it is important that the methodology used ensures that capitalization is first used in projects that prefer to increase the production of the economy and that the OECD has criticized governments for not also supporting the interest analysis, which is in line with the principles of the government of public finance. The Committee has knowledge that the Ministry is involved in further developing priorities and the work of administration in the spirit of OECD. The majority stress that in priorities of performance and the following events, the selection of new projects for tender implementation as a teamwork project requires a careful interest analysis with regard to national and social views, such as national, security, and environmental issues. Thus this section of the Committee's list concludes with the views and repeated reviews of such careful profit analysis. Then there is a chapter on the impact on other transport activities. It should be said, then, that in protest, a project to be completed during the period of construction or their business would be called after the arrival of a government fund, which is now at an increased financial risk of cooperation with other activities resulting from a travel - service crash. Instead, the management board should use low interest and employment levels to perform extensive improvements and maintenance of the current road system. Then it says in the opinion of the committee that counters this, by permission of the president: The Treaty on cooperation projects provides an opportunity for practical risk distribution between private and public. In this way, there will be opportunities for personal initiatives, such as innovation and flexibility, to build up infrastructure. In this way, financing of infrastructure allows for maintaining the level of employment during a difficult year's trip and speeding up national interest in transport. The majority claim that in the bill it is authorised to negotiate with the private members of the agency for a set project after the tender date of tender tenders. The road always evaluates the aspects of the projects to be offered, evaluate the activities in general, and set out each partner effort. Since this is only allowed, a discussion with the Committee on what procedure would be considered if the warrant was not used because of the changes in predestinations. Projectors might change if workers did not show interest, treaties were lost, traffic weight declined, cost-effective changes changed, road sharing, and other unexpected changes did not occur. (b) What should be done in order to improve the quality of the budget? In terms of cooperation, the greater part stresss that there is no impact on other projects that are already funded on the transport program, rather than on other means of financing. Uncertainity thus surrounds this level of cooperation underscores the fact that the proposed number of projects in the current situation, following the Covid-19 pandemic, is actually an attempt to work as a development project with the main objective of hurrying where necessary transportation is possible. Successful as to some of her early assignments, it could contribute to the choice of more cooperation projects, in many parts of the country. So the majority of it is important that this bill be given to identify the processes involved if co-works change according to the assessment of Vega, so that they cannot have planned cooperation work in harmony with a transport plan. The response to these situations can be mostly two, that cooperation projects will be referred to the next transport programme that the initiatives of the Environment and Transport Committee or the Road Administration send a message to a minister who can respond by offering a solution to the council. Here is the conclusion of this section, which is very important: The Commission has confirmed that neither transport plans nor Congress laws are an obstacle to the proposal for a change in the terms of the application of the next Council. This ensures that changes to cooperation projects, or changes to other transport projects, can be met at the council's scene with a proposal for new solutions due to the possibility of failure. No new transport plan is needed to make up the new transport plan. Then comes a chapter, the second, for the arrival of a private member of the community in cooperation and cooperation with government matters. For the Committee, it came to the opinion that having any investment would be more expensive than having a government fund of financial support by itself, which would require investments in order to get a benefit for sharing in cooperation work. With reference to a report by the Department of Transport and Regional Ministry on road funding, published in April 2018, it was pointed out that due to the provision of risk and higher financial costs, the experience in Europe was that a cooperation project cost 20◯30% more than a project funded by the state's funds. In addition, there will be expenses from collecting roads. It was then claimed that the introduction of private investments to transport was the result of the inflexible laws on public finances that prevented the development of the State. Commenting on this bill, it was noted that contributions to road construction have not been sufficient to meet an increased need for the construction of the road system and that significant projects will not be carried out in the next one to two decades unless there are other methods of financing. It is estimated that road costs will increase the proportion of those who come to use the most efficient but will also have the most economic advantage due to new transport. The Committee referred to the work programme, i.e. The report there. I'll just read it for an explanation because it is cited in the committee's opinion. It takes back the experience in Europe that a cooperative project has cost 20◯30% more than a work done by standard means. In contrast, social benefits in the form of innovation, shorter production periods, and a lower risk for the public are needed, says the report. Moreover, it is concluded that a cooperative project can be a way to maintain an investment during a difficult year's trip. Second, a cooperative project is a way to enable the benefits of private transport, in particular innovation, flexibility in the structure and maintenance of the road system. Third, cooperation projects can help the taxpayers get more for their money, the services become better, and the risk exchanges between the public and the private business are practical. Finally, experience abroad has shown that private workers usually complete projects at shorter times than public members, especially since public funding is often distributed in much longer than is required for their implementation. So this is an attempt to argue why they might face the larger cost from abroad. In addition, this project, especially the first four, inexpensive terms, was noted to be that the road modeling is also around all aspects of tenders and preparations, so it is not provided in advance that costs are increased in the same way as other experiences have shown. I take back the chapter somewhat further on the arrival of a private member in cooperation work. It says that prior to a cooperative project, it needs to be established whether and in what way the project will affect the survival and/or commitment of the State on the basis of the standards established for accounting and reporting under official financial legislation. So says, with President's permission: In relation to work in a special group of people, who had considered new means of financing road projects and were fundamental to the development of the bill, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs requested the government's opinion of the State's Council on the effects on the budget, taking into account the different tools for the development of transport workers and their funding. In the former financial and economic memos, the results of the Council are tore up. It is noted that the implementation of a category within or outside of the A State and that the IPSAS account status and the GFS economy provides a broad range of principles to guide such categories. The above highlights control and authority over an assignment, but the latter highlights where the benefits and risks are, i.e. Building, access and demand risks, with the cooperation of the project. In the memo, the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs stresses the making of agreements for individual cooperation work under the bill. In addition, it would be considered that there would be a request for the release of the State's Council of Accounts for individual agreements. It's trying to have belts and bracelets. Then it says, and I'm about to go to the end of my case, here in this chapter on the arrival of private partners in co-works and a financial partnership, with permission of the president: The ◯ The more part agrees with the above views of the Ministry and aims to consult with the Ministry on making agreements on unique cooperation projects. Social improvement in innovation, shorter performance period and a lower risk of the public is an important factor in the assessment of the global welfare of co-workers. Similarly, social factors involving development, safety, employment structure, and the environment are important factors in this assessment. The majority stress that making a decision on implementation will be considered for practical, electronic solutions and in accordance with official financial legislation. Then there are adjustments that I'm not going to read all of them. There are six of them. In the introduction to the conversion proposal itself, it says: The ◆ The more part contributes to the above-mentioned change of 3mg. Section 4. the bill for a more detailed explanation of legal rights due to unsupervised roads. In addition, a change in 1 mg is proposed. Section 5. as it is not proper to state the origin of the road generation as a result of a form of possession in ◯ different rights to which sources of possession are responsible, it is subject to the right to the right. Then the bill's headline changes to conform to the wording of the bill. Other changes are word changes that are not meant to have material influence and need no further explanation. Mr. President. We'll settle this committee with this majority wing party. Thus, Bergþór Ólason was absent from the case. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson signed in advance, which I expect it to account. Under the heading, write why. Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, who stands here, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, in advance, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Linika Sævarsdóttir Anna, Vilhjálmur of Árnason and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason. So I've finished my long case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u9	President. This issue is about the failure of a weak transport minister to get enough money into a transport program to finance road repair infrastructure, which was also the case. The promise of this government. Web structure, infrastructure, infrastructure - these were the promises for the last election. This is one of the highest burnouts in the country today, the highest priority in the nation's priorities, anyway, last year, in terms of the government's budget. As a result, a weak transport secretary is not able to get in on this and decides to take out certain challenges that, if agreed on a transport program, are stuck outside parentheses. I know why. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, does he know that three of the six projects are in his own jurisdiction? Does he know that two of the three people being started immediately are in his district? Does he know what voters in his district will? He only listens to local administrations, and what department governments are they? Is it perhaps the unit administration of the Independence Party that sits there and wants private projects? A rural government that has been calling for private action for a very long time, called on the fact that it is funded by private funds at the same time as the U.S. automobile owner's Féglag says in this context of his review, with permission of the president: This summary shows that participation in private investors leads to a 33% higher cost of five planned road cooperation projects than if a government fund finances the road. The road users will have to pay 20 billion dollars. greater according to FIB's calculations In the Treaty, it was promised to use the government's income from its property, profit from banks, etc., on road projects, in transport infrastructure. No, that's not the way, that's to be taken out. That's what I'm talking about. A senator has told his voters about projects that will be taken out of parentheses, that they will have to pay more for them, and if they object, after they have agreed to a transport program at the council, are we stuck on the path to which the minister was offering? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u10	Mr. President. No, of course I don't know where these projects are. I have no idea that they're in the South Sea. Senator. But the local government calls for these projects all over the country, not just the Southern District, and I now think it's all right to listen to them. That they're led by an independent party, I don't know what to do. A senator was referring to whether he had crossed all the rural governments that there were supposed to be involved and how they are made up. Funding is an attempt to speed things up. It is being financed by many other roads in a direct manner. It's simply trying the Hahfjörður model, certainly with a certain variation that involves more involvement of the State than it was there. This is a warrant for the Roadmaker to check on negotiations. There are belts and bracelets set, let's say, to go this way. [[The president calls.]] If this fails, however, it will still be possible to complete these projects in another way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u11	President. Hv. A senator may then have to tell his voters in the Southern District that if this route is gone, and a policy of transportation will be approved, it will not be revised until years have passed. [[Three years of presentation.]] Then the work will be taken out of a transport program that would otherwise be in a transport program now, and the only way for the three years will be, who? To go as far as a transport minister suggests, to do a way that costs people who need to use this road much more, according to the calculations of the Icelandic car owners, 33% more. Of course, companies are going to make a profit, and it's going to show. What will it cost if the government borrows? One percent today. Of course, even if there are other roads to go, this will be much more expensive. But how will they be maintained? Where do they land in a transport program? They end up at the back because there's another way to go. But you have to pay. It's something that's wrong. A senator has to make it clear to his voters in the Southern District that if this route is agreed and then, by the day, it's not practical enough and something like that, the conditions that the senator is referring to, people have to wait for three years or accept the need to pay a lot more. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u12	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. Of course, in the ideals where these projects are being made, other roads are being financed on a large scale, as I said earlier. These are being taken out to speed them up by this specific method. The Vaults came to be fine. Traffic declined through the Hagland, certainly. Of course, the other available routes will be maintained, these are internal roads, etc. When it comes to making this up with the proportion of roads against others, I am absolutely convinced that the urgency and the economic and environmental benefits and the other factors involved are worth their money.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u13	A respectable president. The Ministry told us on the Committee that this ideologies, this PPP project, a private and public project, had been chosen. At the same time, we are also told that the cost of such projects is 20 to 30% higher. For example, suppose we had some priorities for a project that has not been set in a transport program. It is priorities based on the most profitable and the most social benefits, etc. If we had such priorities, we would obviously be saying that the projects were those that were paid by taxes, etc. and are profitable for use in public. And what does it say that these projects are not exactly there, and why should they be taking on projects that are profitable and practical for society and charge an additional twenty-three0%?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u14	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. I believe that in my case, when I was explaining the majority opinion, it was clear that the social benefit of hastening these projects is what we're stressing and ideologies are the same as being used in the capital area. We're paying for this. [[Up front.]] They're paying for it, it's being made to do it... [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u15	Don't talk in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u16	They are being rushed by a similar ideologies and are used in these areas, and we know, of course, very well that the benefits of such rapid and effective implementation and short - cut ways and that are large, any profit in relation to, whether it is a social advantage, a security profile, a climate problem, or anything else, are justified in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u17	A respectable president. In a sense, if your priorities reflect such costs of delays in the construction of the procedure, you can justify a more cost of such a transport. However, we do not have such priorities. She just doesn't exist with this project without a transport plan. If the project is down in the list that the community cost of storing the project for that long is greater than 2003-30%, there is a very good reason to consult private partners to speed it up, but these projects are very socially profitable and should be very high on the list of projects funded by our community transport agreement. To reduce these high priorities is nothing but a tax increase, in fact, because the economy of the nearby community is developing these projects because it is a national interest. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u18	President. I appreciate the answer. This can be answered in many ways. I want, for example. points out that I had a relatively long record of why a higher price might be justified. Humans are stuck here with this 2003-30% European experience. I also considered that this particular project could be just the right way to feel about such projects because there is nothing available for the European figures to do. The road is holding the contracts. Of course, the priorities are very clear, and it is quite clear that the money available in the road to repair is no more than if we are really going to speed things up, we have to look for these financing systems, and if we were to take them as government projects, we would have to postpone someone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u19	A respectable president. We're here on a cooperation project on road projects that are just a check on charges and reimbursement. I simply object to the charges for the simple reason that they are unfair tax returns, very unfair tax returns, especially if, as noted, we take over the estimated cost of these projects to be 20 breakdown30% higher and there will be billions to start paying extra, above the government. What I don't understand about this, too is why Axes Road is in there. I think that road should just be on track. He's that ignorant of putting down on him is completely incomprehensible to me. I'm asking why in there is that road?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u20	Mr. President. I appreciate that question. It's about charges. An unreasonable tax returns. Likely, then, it was unfair tax returns when we collected 50 cents. To drive the old Chefavik way, which was made up and brought up, and all rejoiced. And it's natural to shorten the Whale Route about 60 miles, including unfair tax returns. I think, yeah. A senator, that men just think it's wrong. An Ox is an excellent example. It shortens the way for those who have to take it - of course, tourists and others can travel it - about 70 miles [70 km], and the average car cost is 100 k. ... ona mile. The statue of going to Axi and paying for maybe 500 or 1,000 bucks there. So saves the slayer a large amount. That's $7,000. driving the other way. I don't understand how people get the idea that this is an unfair tax system, apart from safety and anything else. That's 4 billion bucks. This is one way to speed up the project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. An unfair tax returns are because it differs from income. Everyone pays the same amount, but the payment is just a fraction of the highest-price income. Remuneration may be two, three or four times higher in those at the lowest wage of 300,000 k. Exploited and may have to use that road to get out and to work. That's not fair. This is exactly the same thing as done, e.g. with traffic tickets. Of course, it is quite remarkable that two people have to pay for a $100,000 ticket, and one has $300,000. a month, and the other with 3 million. K. per month. And it's called fair. It's just a long way from being fair and can never be fair. If we could just put it up so that there could be a money check. Then they're the ones who are tempted to go through and who can't afford to pay, and the car's just underneath.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u22	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. Here's another basic problem. Before what? A senator became a member of Congress, perhaps with a range of income. Let's just say we've driven the same kind of car. We paid the fuel and oil charge for driving, regardless of our income, and we've been doing it for decades. If we're going to get baited into it and a income bond, we should have done it with the rest a long time ago. Of course, it simply depends on driving, and the abbey is obvious, as I did earlier. So I can't see that this is a yes, these concerns are not related income, which are naturally not tax returns. The tax we've paid and paid for, the fuel and oil, has never been attached to.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u23	Madam President. I'd like to grab off the commission, with the permission of the president: ▪ Road construction provisions have not been sufficient to meet an increased need for the construction of the road system. Clearly, a number of important projects will not be started in the next one to two decades unless there are other methods of financing. I would like to ask the senator if this is really so clear, although in recent years the government has provided no more roads. It is not physical laws. It is a decision made in this hall. Of course, if, like this branch office, we decide that these contributions will not increase, we need to look for some other way. Instead, we simply want the Kingdom to do more. Why not?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u24	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. The words as hell. A senator is naturally equipped with a 15 - year transport program. We have here, and now we have not fully understood the cost of transportation for the next 15 years. Therefore, these two transport plans are quite different, and there is a review of the budget for traffic over the head. I think putting it out this way is going to work. We're looking to the next few years, let's say, three or five. The schedule will be reviewed within three years, so I don't understand why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u25	Madam President. My concern is simply that in the opinion of more part of the environment and transport committee, the transport system should be built on a mutual basis from a joint fund. But I'd like to ask a question. The article states: ◯ Then it was claimed that the arrival of private investors to the point of transport was the result of an inflexible legal framework on public finances that prevented the development of the State. I can't read from the accompanying committee whether or not it agrees. It seems so quickly to me that the committee agrees, that it is the cover of public financial management. I would like to have it confirmed by the senator, and especially since this chapter concludes, the greater part emphasizes that the decision to make a withdrawal will be taken into account in harmony with official financial matters. [[The president calls.]] Are they in charge rather than taking pride in public spending? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u26	Madam President. First of all, surrender for the social funding. Of course, in proportion to them, it is a great deal, though we have gone out to this experiment, so to speak, in the opinion of the committee, and the Roadmaker sees it. In fact, we have experience in the course that in the Hölfhjörg gang, it was that the state's funds went under two responsibilities, not on loan responsibility, but on buying bonds if certain things happened. So we're moving this into a new form with this and we trust it. For these defenses that are in the committee's opinion, yes, we'd like to get this straight. We also encourage a review of laws that make it clear about government and rural development so that the cost of development under these programs is clear because of failure to provide for things. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u27	Madam President. I recommend a minority elemental strike-in-the-head section-of-whisper. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason, chairman of the environment and transport committee, and the one here speaking. We have some comments on this bill and on the opinion of the greater part, and I'm going to introduce it to them in this talk. First, we agree that it is very important to engage in transportation and find a reasonable way to do so. It is important to find money to expand these projects, especially road transport. We make comments on objective responsibilities found in the bill. We also make comments to the legal rights of the bill. We make comments on the way to expand our budget, providing another way that we feel is more reasonable in many respects. We make comments to the project selection and production of the whole bill, i.e. choosing these six projects. They're very different and different. In terms of their presentation, we feel that rather this should have been put in a set frame of law, and then the projects, when they reach that stage, should be approved here at the council to apply the proposed process, which is, in many respects, fine. We support the basic idea in many ways. We may make the most serious remarks about ourselves. We don't think it's a good idea. We make comments about how this is actually started. This car is pushed off without showing off the cards. The government does not show the cards, but it still promotes this taxation idea to a great degree by means of this bill and other elements. The card's out, but it's not shown. The public, roadfarers, car owners do not know what they hope for, nor do we. It's unclear. I have previously said in speeches that my opinion is that this round-up idea of a head should appear here in a complete bill so that we could see the cards that the government may have on hand or is looking for at least, instead of giving this vague presentation in this bill and other government bills that exist here today, and I will mention it in my speech. But I'm going to review the committee opinion. In the bill, the Roadmaker is authorized to negotiate with private partners on the cooperation of specific transport projects listed in the bill. It is permitted to finance the construction project in part or entirely by reimbursement of the monumental structure involved in the cooperative work. At the end of the contract period, the Agency is expected to be owned by the state without any particular price. The bill has a maximum of 30 years in this respect. I'd like to remind you that the contract period for Hölfjörður was 20 years, and it was a lot of people, especially those in Western lands, Aklini, Citynes, and so on. They thought it was enough. That was a major road. It may be said that it should be some degree, but by giving up the ball over 30 years, I am a little afraid that it will be customary then to put such projects into a 30-year reimbursement process before the State takes over. They're giving up a fixed ball in this regard, and we haven't seen such currency in the past 30 years. She was about 20 years old in Hölfjörður. There weren't many years with the Smokey Lane, maybe ten or less. Others may have that information on a rhythm. Few things are more important to the inhabitants of this country than easy transportation, with a large, long, difficult tour of the land. Thus, growth in transport has been the challenge that governments face at any given time, especially in order to meet the demands of inhabitants, on the other hand, in rural areas that often take over a difficult road block, and even more so in the capital area where the population has increased rapidly in decades, but major transport activities are often made up of all other circumstances decades ago. No one on the roads of the country is aware that the road system has not been ever accompanied by an ever - increasing number of tourists. The requirements of time have not been met, especially by inhabitants of the country's demand for improved transport to seek employment as well as by health care. In terms of my 1st share, ours. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's son, it is absolutely necessary and long time to engage in a massive campaign on roads. In many parts of the country, increasing the rate of construction of key roads is needed. Transport contributions have failed to meet the expectations of the population and to meet the demands of the day. We stress that transport projects will be prioritized in terms of economic efficiency, national equality, regional policy and safety perspectives. It will be emphasized to expand individual sectors, break isolation, and facilitate the way of inhabitants to attend service, especially health care, regardless of where they live in the country. We make comments on objective responsibilities and feel that it is advisable to bring up the laws of objective responsibility of the owner or driver of a vehicle on the payment of vanities, i.e. requirements that arise because of the behavior of others. It must be noted that such responsibilities can be most unfair. Thus, while a driver is someone else, the owner or driver of a vehicle is ultimately responsible for the payment of a road, and this also applies to rentals and rented companies. The cost of recovery and its management are entrusted with objective responsibility, i.e. The owner of the vehicle, rather than the host of the transport man who is supposed to be a private member by the bill. We feel that they are being given a great deal of practical wisdom in collecting the fees that start when driving through the roadside side and the person doesn't pay off right away or pass through without using keys or whatever it takes. Then the responsibility is placed on the owner of the vehicle. To do so, we must consider that there is something very important in our view. When this is weighed against the fact that in the vast majority of cases the executives and those who collect premiums according to this bill, we feel that we are way out of line, Madam President. Also included in the bill collectrs, i.e. The same party, afforded an advantage to cover the expenses of a vehicle, and in the interest of a private member that would most often be a tax collector, as I mentioned earlier. We make serious remarks to the fact that privates are given such management once again and again, and a priority to collect their requirements. It is not only this objective responsibility that I was to mention but it is also a practical option to legalize the workers in the vehicle. This is true only in extreme circumstances. These rights are commonly given to the State to facilitate collections of government funds, as most know them, and there are cases where private workers are granted the same rights, e.g. to collect due insurance insurance from pay companies. But why would that be about insurance? There is a greater argument and other evidence because public security depends, of course, on the fact that all driving vehicles are guaranteed insurance. It is public security to prevent innocent road users from having an accident and the other person from being disloyal. This is public security. That's why they're here. In this case, for the sake of road costs, additional profits and rights are being given to the vehicle. And who's collecting them? Private. In my 1st section, we make comments about this. Madam President. We also contribute to other means of transport growth. We believe there are several ways that we can do that. When a massive project was attacked to bridge the river of the South, not less than 50 years ago, yes, it has been 47 years since, something like that, the country's inhabitants were sought for funding and sold into securities, and a large share was made among the citizens of the country. It was under national effort to finish the circle. Today, we are going to a national campaign that is comparable to that of bridgeing the glacier. We're about to improve a very poor road system. With increased traffic, it is not merely a distraction but a direct danger. At present, there is a very favorable advantage for the loan markets and especially for the national groups. A lower share of 1 thinks that it is possible to attack on high and favorable measures at favourable costs and at lower costs than often before. Especially is it tempting for the government to finance projects with favorable loans now that there is a significant drop in the job market. In that way, the car's wing is actually only the construction capacity of a contractor's company. 1 less part of the estimate is that financing of similar projects on the part of the private car could be considerably more expensive, which affects users in higher road charges. We believe that there would be a better way for the bill to be implemented as a framework for future projects. The General might later conclude that certain projects were carried out in place of the proposed legislation. to establish authority to negotiate specific cooperation projects in the law. Some of the projects listed in the bill are not particularly suitable for such projects, but they are standard and practical for the roadmaking process. What are these assignments? The bill's report shows that large, well-defined new projects offering private opportunities for innovation in design and structure are suitable for cooperation. In a national sense, it is fundamental to increase the improvement in water production from innovation and work management in an increase in cost. The dwindling Diving and the double Hölfjörður are specifically listed as suitable cooperation projects that end up large and costly new projects where preparation is not started and a great amount of space is available for the use of the private output, innovation and design. The six projects listed in the bill are different, and their possible time frames are very similar. Three projects, i.e. Through the Horn of the Earth, the highways north of Selephos and a new bridge across the Fairy River and the Road for Axi, all of which are designed to make rapid movements, but according to road data, it is realistic that they all will survive in the next two years, all three of them. The design of the first two projects, Hornhjörður Roads and Elfieberg bridges, is virtually completed, the environment assessments are completed, and roadlines have entered an established organization. That's the first stage of a circle around the Horn of the Earth already begun. The preparation of Olazax will only be shorter, but it will not be completed. The other three projects need a longer priming period. Circles around Snow Valley and the tunnel to test Mount Investments are relatively available for planning and environmental assessments. The topic of Diving is such a special chapter in all the sense of that word, very special. It may be mild - tempered to talk about extreme delays, since it is considered for decades and still does not provide the end of the project. In the immediate future, the doubleization of the Whale Vault is not urgent. According to this, it is impossible to criticize that all of the six tasks are set up in the bill as a professional project in relation to the pandemic. It is not proper to support the need to implement these six pandemic projects, Madam President. It's just that it's not right. Two of these projects have a considerable future. Part 1 is also considered to be a project far in progress not to be followed by the core ideology of road cooperation projects, for which there is no apparent improvement in private relations at this stage. We'll make comments, Madam President, in the inaccuracies surrounding the implementation of the taxation concept in this bill and in a number of prime places, that it is largely unpublished and completely unsure about the amount of roads paid, both in isolated cases and in general. It is essential that the reference height of roads be clearly stated as soon as possible and that it will be discussed in more detail about the implementation of a cross-cutter. We give special attention to the reduced restrictions on the car owners in response to the costs. In fact, we overemphasize that the idea of paying off does not result in an increase in the size and size of a car owner in general. It will be necessary, if this idea is carried out, that other spells will be reduced accordingly. When this route is better implemented, avoid a product product collection of those who have to pass many roadways, e.g. to attend service to the capital. In this context, based on the assignment given, inhabitants of the Cape of the Hornfjord will have to pay a price to drive about three blocks of transportation to reach the capital, three monuments. But not all of the story is said because if you also collect payment in the capital area on the main footways, then the Hornlain may have to continue paying hair tax on the capital so that there could be four monuments and possibly more. The inhabitants of Aranesp, and all those coming from the west and north, have to pay a cut-off of at least twice in relation to these ideas. The first minor part makes comments on the implementation of the future budget of traffic are no further than the case, and it is important that this work be done when making transport decisions related to cooperation projects on road roads. In fact, we feel very strongly that this taxpaying concept is fully explained to the taxpayers, but it does not come into the council in many different capitals and councils without a complete debate. There are now more government cases than in this cooperative bill today. I'm going to mention them here in my speech, Madam President. The bill for a license to establish the official transport construction community in the capital area provides a plan for such remuneration in E-ili. The bill that says that the roles and tasks of the Society are also that insure quick and traffic costs in the capital area, the law will legally impose such charges, and build up the infrastructure of such charges. There are plans to collect traffic bills in the capital area. In a panel of more parts of the Environment and Transport Committee for decision-making on a five- and fifteen-year transport policy strategy for the 202020/2034, which is also being treated at the council at this moment, it says on a tunnel section: The EEA also supports the vision that direct contributions from transport and land management programmes depend on part of the implementation costs of soils, and to cut off the traffic capital of parts as well as on the price for operating and maintenance of the tunnel. That's the third idea of reimbursement here at the council right now, i.e. Retribution in a tunnel. Madam President. I think it's a felony, and I think I have some reasons for that. Why not bring in a holistic bill for reimbursement, one bill that we could discuss here? No. Instead, the government with three different counts of Congress is now a treatment. And what is the discussion in society? It's the next little one. Why? Because people are not aware of this, but these matters are now before the council. Thus, in many places, there are ideas of government bankruptcy that are as different as there are many of them. In the capital area, currency ideas go out to collect fees within the capital area, the so - called rapids, which were formerly called taters, and one of the goals is to limit traffic through the streets of the city and seek to direct citizens in a so - called city line. In fact, it's the goal of something quite different from the other two cases. Then there are ideas about the use of funerals, regardless of the way that is discussed in this bill on the cooperation project on road work, which is yet another distribution of the payload. As an example, the first section of the memory feels that a quest for a tunnel to shorten a way includes the quality that is natural to be paid by users, especially if possible by another route, but has comments on the very inexplicable production of currency ideas in the context of a number of cases presented by the government and I have torn in my speech. We warn against these conflicting ideas about payment in the road system and believe that the 1st thing is that while all the export is in such fog, these ideas are only useless and complicated. The government should endeavor to clarify these ideas better before proceeding further. Now I've finished reviewing the committee opinion. In principle, we make comments on the charges and violations of their appearance. We make comments to the whole bill, i.e. The work there is assigned to do. They're very different, and we don't feel that they should be in this group about which the bill is about. They're different, and they're in very different stages. Some can begin almost immediately, as roads through the Horn of the Earth and the Algay Bridge, as they were almost possible. Others are in a faraway future, such as Half - ravine tunnels and the Daffron Road, which we naturally eagerly await the start. It increases safety around the capital, shortens the roads, and increases the value of nearby buildings on the way up to Mosfellsville. The development of development in the capital area is unsatisfactory by blocking and preventing such urgent projects as the Sunway. The central Party has its bearings that the waterway will be initiated as soon as possible. Then we made comments about the law and the objective responsibility. We may feel quite well placed, Madam President, that private agents will be given so much profit in the collections against those for some reason they do not pay on the roadside to be exacted. We feel that it is indelibly suggested that private employees, who are expected in many cases to do so, are provided with this kind of economic advantage. In fact, we do not object to this economy in many cases and understand the problem of collecting roads through the remuneration gate, which is given to the tax collectors a great deal of practicality and rights to other requirements, objective responsibility. We feel that there is a great need to be very careful in spreading such good things without much thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u28	A respectable president. Hv. In fact, a member of the council spoke of an interesting point in his speech on charges of charges, three cases on the committees, and one or another on the General Assembly program of some kind. But all these matters are also about how these are not the norm. It is always referred to by a team and something like that, where this is being tried in a collective way in terms of energy exchange and so forth, but still comes in a small way in which it is not needed. I wanted to draw attention to it in the discussion, in this larger context, that in this matter, for example. The user expenditures for the individual projects we know, both in Venal halls and in the Whaleyards, and have provided both very well and very badly, different from the end of it, regarding the implementation as it went on, etc. In a temple tunnel, a project was on top of the priority list, and there are ideas on how interest should have been gained to the users. It is somehow justified, apart from the scope of the project and the failure of plans. The methodology to decide that was political rather than professional. The exact data on these notes are those who try to justify these charges, that they are actually useful to users without even explaining how lower the priorities of these tasks are, how they are not taxes, from taxes we already pay, which pay for these projects. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u29	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for these comments, which I think are; this was not a direct question. This is to say, I can repeat what I said in my speech, and I drew attention to it earlier, that there are three cases of administration here, or suggest that there are supposed to be a collection of roads. But this is interesting and true, and I agree with it by reason. paritaprevir Björn wife, the Leví of Gunnarsson, and thank him for these comments, that this is not part of the discussion today. These charges do not seem to be in the discussion, despite the fact that here is one three administrative hearings requiring reimbursement. With the argument, it's also fragile, I agree with what I think is wrong. A senator was leaving. Here in Reykjavík it is clearly being a delay in traffic and in direct traffic any other way, i.e. that public cars should be used rather than private cars. Ideas behind the charges here may have another purpose, seems to be. As far as the tunnel is concerned, the purpose appears to be to speed up soiling, normal. It's a matter of safety. It's a matter of shortening paths. As for this project, I'm trying to speed things up, and I might agree with the Pirates, with maybe. is now less expensive for the government to finance this and take a loan because it is cheap instead of granting open fire to privates, it is to charge the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u30	A respectable president. Two things: counters and letters. This is a bit of a conference board without going to the conference board, saving that team. An answer is not necessarily a question, there is no need to ask questions, you can just come and make specific comments and discussions, and the members of the council can answer that question or make some statements at a convention, etc. It's been in the discussion lately, not to ask any questions or such, and it's fine. The rest is about Stab. There was a person from Stafir who contacted me and sent me data on payments to these so - called "bombs " or the actual roadside gate. If the amount of money that people paid to cover and from work over a year is combined - these were taken up over each month and each record, they were very good data from the companies that charge and can be printed - they are higher than the person paid for all year's expenses. I'm just gonna let this filter into people's minds. The amount paid to cover expenses, to go to and from work, around the staff was higher than the person paid for all year long. It's where we want to go, isn't it? I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u31	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Björn of Levi the Leví of Gunnarsson for such meditation, should we not put it that way? I wondered about this occasion, and I continue with what I was saying earlier, that we now believe for a time that it may be cheaper for the taxpayers of the country to borrow the money because loans are now very good. In fact, in the mention of the majority of the objects that I could not find in an instant, there is a real cause, and I don't think that reason is powerful enough. Why are private workers being given these tasks, in the way this is supposed to be? It follows that they need to borrow on a higher level of interest. There's some difference between 30 years of growth. These are large amounts of money all the way in order to cost the currency and the state in some cases. [[Up front.]] We can't figure this out. The reason was said to be that this would promote innovation. Yeah. They found a more inexpensive solution. Yeah. But it's so much money that I don't see it coming. The government borrows 5 billion with 1% interest and then offers a doll. Then the private will come and make the bridge. Of course, the government has certain demands on how the bridge should be, so it does not change anything. I'm afraid it'll cost more to users, and especially now when interest is so low.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u32	Madam President. This article discusses the 662nd issue of this article, the bill on the cooperation of road projects. We've been listening to the Commission's opinion of more parts of the environment and transport committee and a secondary opinion of 1st smaller parts. This will be the main point of a second proportion of the committee, which can be found on a panel. 1743. At the beginning of the 2, a smaller part of the government is severely restricted by the failure of the national transport system for the rest of this terms during a time of great expansion in all areas. We have enjoyed prosperity, and visitors from all over the world have been unprecedented. Of course, pressure on all infrastructures has increased simultaneously. In this respect, the limit to endurance is being reached in many places. A lower part of the government's criticalness for having completely neglected to take care of these infrastructures in the upcoming hours. The opportunity has been there, but the priorities have not been that way. Other smaller objects want to underline, rights, and stress that good transport is economic and provide rapid and reliable recovery with increased traffic security, shortcuts, accidents and positive environmental impacts. An immediate and dramatic effort to build wood is needed in a practical way and in a general sense. In order for these goals to be met, 2 smaller items do not need the legislation offered by the bill, i.e. to become known as PPP or, by permission of the President, to be partnership-Private. The aims can be achieved by much more efficient, more efficient and more efficient means, so that society is all, all of us, users and taxpayers, benefited and is of great benefit. This as a result of a resurgence, a 2nd takes less attention to 40 st. Laws on Public Economics, No. 123/2015, of course, on the authority of the Member State to negotiate cost-effective projects, business and limited projects over the age of five, of course, of course, of universal approval. Comments of the paper on the law, in the bill on public financial matters, discuss what constitutes cost - making investments in this regard. It is noted that this is dependent on individual assessments, especially on extensive negotiations and complex tasks, e.g. type of tunnel. The same report also states that since financial programs reach at least five years of age, legal rights of that kind are naturally set aside for investments to form a legal warrant. At the same time, it is suggested that there is a complex, expensive, and extensive task, such as. Building a private hospital, it's natural that such agreements are based on law code. The work of cooperation given by the bill is of the sort that they are not considered to be a complex and vast amount of transport, except for the projects listed in d- and f-jords 2.mg. 1st par. the bill, i.e. Double Hölfhjörður and straggle Sunway. Their design and preparation have not begun, and the projects are not likely to reach performance levels until four or five years. The other four projects mentioned in 2 mg. 1st par. The bill is simply a traditional road project proved under Icelandic conditions and cost entirely predictable. Thus, little seems to prevent the cost - giving approach to the public, to the taxpayers of the country, to take advantage of a more costly option. In this connection, a memory of 2 points to the fact that a government fund does not have the means to put more money into the infrastructure, including the U.S.A. by the laws of public finance, in other words, the inflexible financial code prevents the necessary implementation of the State. To avoid that straitjacket, tasks are carried out outside parentheses rather than simply changing the financial rules in situations like these. As mentioned above, 2 less estimates are that the methods of financing in the bill are inappropriate on the basis of economic community interests. The six tasks laid down in the bill are very different in size and size, e.g. traffic pressure. Even so, they are all put under the same hat as a cooperative project. The members of the greater part report that all practical logic recommends that the implementation of these projects will be comparable across the country. The task remains very different. In fact, there are no data on daily traffic weights on Axes Road, but a schedule of 220 cars is expected. The estimated daily traffic at round, northest, Selephos, and bridges across Elfishi, is 5,500 cars. In view of the complete pay of the project after 30 years, compare with Article 3. The bill, and the payout of that time is directed to conclude that it will either be charged with paying a much higher price on Axe Road or that the wealth of the state is largely up to the fund. And there is some form of discrimination. In this regard, there is reason to wonder about the willingness of the local people to pay. These and most other applications and doubts have not been answered. The management and approach of important projects that are reflected here are listed 2. Less things severely. Therefore, it should be taken into account that in the members of the majority section, it is clear that there is always another way that road users do not want to pay for the use of a traffic trajectory. - You know how to handle this arrangement and compare with a project now completed, i.e. There's a tunnel. Most people do not view driving as a realistic choice, but he is certainly there. - Then it was pointed out in the committee that the payoff should be permanently completed 30 years after the start of the payoff. At a meeting with the Committee, the representatives of Vega also confirmed that if a petition arose for a period longer than 30 years, a legal adjustment would be required by the Council. There is reason to soften this situation, of course, because it flew when 20 years had passed since the opening of the Whale Land March if it was not intended to continue as yet, but it did not occur where the matter would have to come to the council. One of the basic governmental reasonings on the bill is that with a more varied budget than government funds are able to speed up progress, develop and strengthen the development and development of rural development and that this way has a practical and practical advantage. It is possible for humans to succeed. This attitude is also reflected in the panorama of the greater section, where it also claims that some of the necessary tasks will be carried out in the next decade or two, except by the way the bill foretells. A lower section feels that in these words, a subtle pressure, even a threat, is hidden, and that this is not appropriate. That argument was a little shallow and unconcerned. A smaller section shows that the experience of other nations is that such projects are often more costly than other possibilities available. This point is discussed in the leading party of the rest of the section. A report by the Department of Transport and Development for the Ministry of Transport will be considered as a basis for financing road initiatives since April 2019. It points out that due to the transfer of risks and higher financial costs of a private person, the experience is that a cooperation project in Europe cost 20◯30% more than a project funded by government funds. This points up, and I repeat: In a report by the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, there is an increase in costs of 20◯30%. It can then be suggested by the Department of Transport and Transport that the Ministry of Transport is fully aware of the costs of the related work on road projects. The benefits of innovation and employment need to be overcrowded by the higher financial and preparatory costs of private people. There's only a small amount of the fine performance and performance of the Roadmaker. It also shows in the financial and economic memos to the Environment and Transport Committee that the key motivation for the implementation of transport projects is mainly to achieve better solutions and expertise, without further explanation of what to do. Better solutions, more expertise. Where is your expertise greater than that of Vega, which, of course, should bear the weight and heat of such projects? This memo says that the motivation for getting external funding is less than the largest market budget. This cost of financing is to be taken to a historical minimum at this time, so this should be a trace. Finally, it is reasonable to assume that there is a report from the Icelandic car owner's Society, which is the largest car - owner business organization in Iceland. This is where the opposition to road charges is decisive. A review of the bill gives evidence of that position. The Society believes that by means of an investment in the road, the overall cost of building wood is simply being hidden from the overall cost of society. The debt status of the state's funds may be less positive, and the private amount of money is collected by user fees rather than by one or another. The Icelandic car owner's contribution has made a assessment of planned projects and has been reported in the work group's report on transport funding. The conclusion of the Society is that participation in private investors leads to a 33% higher cost of five planned road cooperation projects than if a government fund finances the road, with the exception of the Dizziness Way. Thus, the cost of roadfarings will be 20 billion dollars. above that. At that time, we would collect roads due to the same five cooperation projects, except for 213 million. K. per year, as assessed by the Society. During a 30-year pay period, the cost would be less than 6.4 billion dollars. which could be one smaller tunnel with high demand. Little wonder, then, that a lower part of the problem is that infrastructures in the road system will be funded in the intended way and that governments will be careful not to comment without careful assessment and consultation with stakeholders in the respective areas. This lacks much in connection with these plans. To name, e.g. Lack of analysis related to the benefit of projects, the payment of road users, social impacts and benefits, reliable traffic measurements, traffic forecasts, and so forth. It should be noted, on the other hand, that, on the other hand, in the current final study program at the General Assembly, there is a similar way in which currency is offered for driving through all tunnels, but the implementation of them is not discussed, rather than in other areas, when discussing road expenditures. A lower portion violates such explicit measures and considers it unacceptable that those who have no other choice may thus have to carry the cost. The bill on cooperation projects on the surface of the deck. 1122 is not extensive, detailed, or complicated. The subject itself, however, is the underlying ideologies. Such cooperation may be acceptable in various fields of construction, and it may be convenient for them to be carried out in many cases. However, another lower part considers it necessary to stress that the existing bill is not only fixed to a particular project but also available in the text of the output items in most ways and, therefore, as a result of warning 2 less parts of the fact that this bill, which may be a law in one form or another, will be used as a pattern for PPP projects in another context. For example, a cooperative project has not been defined sufficiently, except for what is stated in Article 2. the bill, e.g. what is required in order to meet the definition. Thus, 2 less important is that the Council more clearly define the concept of cooperation in this context and in other ways in terms of the establishment of the State Fund. A respectable president. I've now run on committee party 2. Less share the one that's been signed here. It will still be put to the conclusion that the Group of Congress feels very strongly that there will be an immediate start in the construction of our infrastructure. Of course, the defenses made, and the comments available on the part of the second part, of course, are not presented to delay matters. We are, however, in the early part of the energy exchange process, and it is predictable that, as a result, the whole of round traffic will need to be reimbursed through Iceland's road system. A respectable president. We feel it is inconceivable to experiment in an unremarkable and unjust way with taxable automobile curses that will bite double the weight of road users in the coming years, especially the inhabitants in planned currency areas. This overall review would have been required to be available at the beginning of this procedure, although it would have been only planned. In this regard, of course, there have been many developments, and this is a technical process. We have countless examples of roads, but the simplest point is to measure distances, i.e. Just measuring a mile, paying off on a mileage. It's one way. It's the simplest. Instead, this predatory road, as noted, is set up in cooperation with privates and investors that the nation so resides and pays in one way or another a figure of 20 billion higher than there is a reason. It is the will and firm faith of an independent party, the forwarding party, and the left movement of ◯ green supply. A respectable president. Where is the financial responsibility now? Where's your economy? Where is the practicality of the flag - bearingkeepers of wood acquitted and holy? I believe that there is a considerable lack of common sense in these plans. National economy is served as a service to interests that do not share responsibility and counsel. This is not the will to seek into the armory of the practical mistress, and of the skillful householder, to make all the money profit. Here, the process of blind faith continues. Some ideological fantasies, some emotional mismanagement. It is not a matter of fact or of long experience. We are familiar with recent examples of Icelandic society when that mantra walked, e.g. About at the local level that our rural society should not own its home, that it would be much better to get rid of money, sell housing to privates, and let them run it. Many rural communities searched for these routes, were in serious trouble, and have been seeking to return, but it is difficult for them to do so. Some rural communities have just landed on cold ice. A respectable president. We are discussing difficult and difficult things that do not necessarily please the mind, encourage, or build up. You need to lift your mind and think of something easier. It's an old Latin proverb that says, "Ars loga, know mannervis." Art is long, life is short. Arts live, life ends. That's exactly what we're planning for a long time. We're planning for the future. We are preparing the nation for a changed period of transport, energy, environment. It is often said that politics is the art of the potential, but those today do not know it. They are trapped in a box - shaped box and do not see the day or the road. And speaking of art, they've been put together full operas about when emotions take over and dominate people. I can think of a popular scream, the Love Donizetti by Donizetti. It was hot in the coal, and the passions were overwhelming, but everything ended up fine. I have a feeling that senators of the left movement came into this love drink and took too much. Of course, the drink tastes good, is delicious, but the aftertaste is bad. This, of course, turned out to be the cleanest hoodlum. In the opera all of this worked well, and let us hope that it will also be with the plans here, that it comes to governments that the choice of the course of reason rather than the dogmas that many advocates of the government recognize to be financial and contrary to those who pay, contrast to the public, to the taxpayers. A respectable president. Few successful people will heal and have everything they need. It's a good investment. Is that strong enough motivation, strong enough reasoning to go that way? Is the interests of taxpayers best cared for in this way? I've got a lot of doubt about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u33	A respectable president. We're in a bit of an interesting position with these projects, and this case, as it's fairly obvious that the state's financial status is very good, but, of course, government funds cannot be borrowed indefinitely. For example, a comment on financial schemes has been made on how to maintain government finances is not just being carried out and in debt, etc. but also in the interest of investing projects. We have this comparison of the state's fixed debt and interest and maintenance of money at the same time, if these projects are as profitable as they say, as the Ministry said the right assignment had been chosen in this model, and, in turn, we have subsidies concerning the average cost of extras, e.g. In Europe, and according to the FIB calculation, the cost of working in this way is 20 to 30% higher, 33% higher, according to FIB calculations. It rhymes quite well with Icelandic experience, since the Whale Vault may have been on about the equivalent of a budget, would have been less expensive in a state - of - state effort, with a state responsibility at which the cost was dropped twice as much as that of the Vendor tunnel. So we're comparing this possibility to offer the country's population a project that's 20 to 300% cheaper than is proposed here. What would be our justification for not taking the opportunity to make this much less expensive? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I can't quite figure it out, and I wonder if. A senator has come across the evidence of the greater part of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u34	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. We are here discussing six projects, all of which, as mentioned, are very different. Remuneration is applied as they are considered to be self-important. Then, of course, it's a crushing business and, of course, why investors are being taken on this kind of project. Why is the most practical route not chosen? Of course, we have reason to believe that it is difficult to do this for formal legal reasons because the government law on finance is some obstacle and we cannot overindulge the state funds. But I don't think that's just enough reasoning. If it is at the table that we are choosing more expensive advantages - and it has really been confirmed to the Department of Transport and the Ministry of Economics, they realize that we are choosing more expensive advantages - how will we justify it to the taxpayers? I don't think that's possible. In my speech, I mentioned here that politics is the art of the possible one. There's no idea where it's going or how it's gonna go. It doesn't take much ideas. But that's all we need. They exist. I feel that, no matter what the currency, I believe it is possible to set aside public societies or societies, but the road structure was, of course, the heat and the weight of the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u35	A respectable president. This is exactly the key. Why do we choose more costly advantages? It won't be much more complicated than it really is. Is it just because of these financial rules that prevent greater borrowing? How intelligent, then, are the financial rules, especially those that we have received of increasing progress or borrowing? the profit of going to the project pays more than the burden of debt? Then we'll pay off the loan with the money we've made from the project. Of course, it will take some time, but will it not take even less time than paying off the loan? That's the basis we're in. And because this is the basis for how we should make decisions about what to do with them, it is noteworthy that these criteria are missing in all these projects and are actually most familiar with our transport projects. Privates in effect only take into account the benefits they can receive from the project, but public citizens can make a much larger profit from the work that can be justified in paying off government expenses. The social gain will never get private clients through user fees. They have to charge more. For one thing, the cost is 2003-30% higher, which is simply a tax increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u36	Madam President. That's an interesting discussion. Of course, if the financial rules and the laws on public finance are too tight, unswerving, and being used by governments in this regard, then it is serious if financial rules are directly working against us so that serious interests are involved. But this, of course, is the dogma of certain political powers, that the personal enterprise solves all problems despite the fact that one blow is riding over the ideologies after another and that it is easy to pick them up, but it is not here. It should be noted, however, that the shock we now experience, a pandemic crown virus, of course, confirms how important it is for us to have a solid infrastructure, a solid network in our community, a stable social fund. It is easy to convince investors and all of us that we should work to finance such a large task that we will have to do in abundance over the years with mutual funds and common sense. The frame should have been ready by now. Of course, we are going through the first phase of energy exchange, and we would have had to take up the discussion on how to obtain a currency in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón of Brjánsson Thomson reviews my committee opinion, and I would especially like to thank him in view of the fact that it is very important to have a little critical debate over the methodology that we are initiating. I'm basically against him, though, because I think I'm more of a person. The doubts I may have had at the beginning of this case have been very well answered by the representatives of the Roadmaker. That is why I was very surprised at the talk. A senator when, in effect, said that this methodology was somehow beinglittled the performance and performance of the road model. So I would like to ask him if it is true that prior to the Commission that the road was precisely continued in this process in order to improve her ability to study new methodology and to adopt in various ways in cooperation with the parties involved. And so it turned out from the roadmaking process that, of course, important polls are being prepared for all the different challenges, some very far away. Is it not true that the senator's request is being prepared by the Road program? As it is also clearly stated in committee meetings, much more is needed in the preparation and implementation of these projects or in other ways that have been nailed, including Compatibility, but in various road works. So that's also the methodology that's being developed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u38	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It doesn't freeze me to minimize the contribution made by Vega in this context, rather than any other. That's where all of our finest people are, and we're supposed to have them on the lead. Of course, the road itself wants to build a road and rejoices that we will get on the road. Although she may have some effect on these avenues, I do not particularly remember that she recommended such a course. It turns out that these six projects are as different as they can be, as they are now urgent, they are all absolutely necessary. We have been leading the way over Axi, especially an urgent assignment. But it's not my opinion that this kind of currency is going to happen. It's just the local population for the sake of it. We're supposed to take all the traffic bills for a full reexamination and let all road users enjoy the same thing. I don't think it's fair that these areas don't charge citizens at least. temporarily, beyond what happens and generally walks in the highway system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. As noted by the senator, this commission is quite different, and it is not a matter of making a special opinion about the route. On the other hand, what I came up with is the advantages of this method. This made me feel very clear, and just how different the projects are has drawn up the benefits of having a certain expansion of knowledge through cooperation on such different projects. Then I wanted to introduce to you something else that has been discussed during the discussion. It is that on such projects in Norway, governments set the goal that, although funding may become more expensive, as it has just been shown, the aim is that the total project being 20% lower than the government's total budget and in most cases the target. That's what we're headed for here. Then I just wanted to access the traffic readings. Of course, we have traffic readings on all these routes, and we can see them on the road site. Anyone can look them up. However, when they are being transformed some way like the way through Axi e.g. And even the same thing about the Horn of the Earth, there is no way to draw too much conclusions from traffic throughout the year from the modern transport workers, since driving will be quite different. [[The president calls.]] Can the senator agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u40	Madam President. Still about our fine state roadmaking, as it was, I don't know if it's still called. It continues to make roads, and these, of course, are professionals who want to rely on the latest and best knowledge available and who have performed well. Could this be an interesting experiment? Maybe. But is such an extensive and expensive experiment necessary? Is that not possible? I'm asking why. A senator, a respectable president. Regarding the traffic measurements and the pressure, because we're talking about this particular route east, where I say that there were 220 cars a day on the bill: Of course, everything will be right there, it's obvious, and traffic will grow a lot during the summer and winter. It's probably almost exclusively a summer road, and it's going to be a completely different picture. Hv. A senator noted that in Norway, there is a trend toward a more inexpensive use of 20 to 30%. I'm surprised that this is not one of the main objectives of this bill. I've never heard of this before. This is not stated in a committee party as far as I've been able to get next. A respectable president. Just before I'm finished with my case, I just want to underscore the Continental opinion that we face a changed situation of energy exchange and we're supposed to take this whole thing as a whole, not to discriminate the people in some sort of social fee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u41	A respectable president. Now word comes that the president is interested in having a meeting after the weekend, on Monday or even Tuesday. That is why I believe that June 2 was a signed contract, the written agreement of all the presidents here at the General Assembly, of the date of June 25th. The reason why the above words were added was that hopes for an even sooner end than that. No one thought that a council would be held until or beyond the election of presidents. That's why I'm asking the highest. The president whether or not he stands for the written agreement of all presidents here at the General Assembly of June 2nd. I realize that the government would want to end a lot more cases than any government would like to run out of time, and now we've done more with this council than there are any cases. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u42	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, who comes up here, makes a talk of the agreement of the prefects. Hv. A senator is as aware of this as the one mentioned here that an agreement was based on an understanding of the issues that would be resolved by this council. That agreement has not yet been reached, unfortunately. I reiterate what I have previously said to the prefects: I thought that we were all falling on this time frame with full integrity, in order to get together on the subjects that would be completed. It's taken time to get along with them. But it's only been fogged, like a whale. A senator knows very well, but still there is no agreement with all groups at the Council on how the matter should be exactly completed. All right, everybody. Senators who signed the agreement should have an understanding that it is hanging by the fact that we're getting together on a final case list and their payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u43	Mr. President. First of all, it is very special to hear it here on the Generals' march that there are plans to be made in the future without a discussion with any members of the council, political presidents, or anything like that. That's very special to me. I thought it might be according to tradition that it should at least be discussed in that field. Then I'd like to say, Mr. President, in this signed agreement, it is not said that there is a certain number of cases to be completed or such before the council is terminated. That's not a word of it in this agreement, so it's clearly stated. I just expect men to respect this agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u44	President. I just want to agree, and point out that when it comes to making an agreement to complete a council now, I've been waiting last night for Prime Minister to just call me or ask for a meeting and continue our conversation with Pirata about our business and what we've been waiting for to do. [[The president calls.]] It's not on us. There are two people in the conversation, and the government needs to get in touch with us as well and show the will to finish it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u45	A respectable president. Sadly, over the last few years, the end of Congress has become increasingly strange and complex. Humans have gone to the point where people no longer sit down and agree on things. Rather, they have written their name down so that there is more likely to be agreement. In the conversation held here several weeks ago by the heads of the classes, the goal of completing a council around 25th June, plus minus a few days ago, was, of course, prepared to complete the matters that would be approved by the council, the prime project, and that was discussed. Two or three cases were set aside. They're gone and, in fact, a lot more. It should come as no surprise to anyone that a work plan is decommissioned. Then it is in the hands of all of us, all classes alike, to show the will to finish here democratically the work we've been doing for the whole winter and enter the summer's break. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think that everyone should take a look at themselves in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u46	Mr. President. In view of how this discussion began, it may be appropriate to consider the matter and even point that question to a problem. The head of the Central Party whether he thought that when the presidents of the Party signed their agreement, it would give him the opportunity to halt the success of all the affairs of the government, going day after day, week after week, in a lawsuit. Does it really matter to humans that it was the purpose of the prefects of the Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u47	Mr. President. I have nothing to report to the President's conference board. It is probably completely pointless to ask people in this hall to try to look slightly beyond their own belly button, the big picture, see what cases it is that would be good for the Council to finish right now. It would be good for us to go into the summer on transportation, that huge case, to become law. But I'm going to, Mr. President, and do an experiment, to ask people in any other agreement, to look at something else because it's not exactly all they think they should get there, to try with me at least try to see the big movie as it is, and to think only of this meeting administration here and how the situation really is, what can happen about big cases that I know we want many in here to become law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u48	Mr. President. I think it would be extremely good for us to think of Generalism and the possible appearance of people who are more than often travelling in the country and listening to us on the radio, would remember us for something other than standing and arguing about each other's dress or in any way that one or another interferes with some agreement. It is necessary to come to an agreement where everyone can do quite well. That's what we're supposed to talk about, but we don't necessarily have to do it here and not in the mail. So I encourage members of all political parties in this room to have a conversation outside this hall and to make a deal soon. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u49	A respectable president. I have nothing to report to the President's conference board. But as long as we're on this line, I better be on it too. Looking outside your own belly button, says nice boy. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé. Shall we make a deal? Why don't we make a deal? I want to tell you what this is all about, for example. The people's Gang. There are cases we should have, three cases we could choose to negotiate. One subject was priority. Then they brought a number three and offered it to us. They decide which subjects we should address. The matter we are talking about first of all is valid already. That's a valid concern for 69. gr. Social Security Act. We're just putting the dot over the i-pells and wishing that this article will be fully supported by the fact that there will never be a minister's choice to decide that when an indicator correction of pay is paid for public security to the public and the poorest people in the country at the end of the year, it will be made according to general pay development in the country. It's just how it's going to be, and you can't negotiate it. We're talking about a legitimate right, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u50	A respectable president. I'd like to mention it, in the context of a word. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargis, is, of course, dependent on the President's meeting board every time, how the issues of the matter are handled, as in this case on a transport program. A senator referred to him. There was, of course, a discussion about achieving a more efficient landing, the one that succeeded, and everything positive. Of course, the landing has to do with the following issue regarding the establishment of an official community, but the president's office, of course, is in hand taking a case off the program and postponing the discussion while agreeing. Of course, if the discussion takes longer than expected, it must be the responsibility of the president at any given time. But it has to be held that a large part of the transport discussion took place outside the anticipated assembly meeting period and did not waste time from any created object.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u51	Mr. President. I come up here to share my concerns about what journey we are in general and perhaps to offer a solution. I may be late now, but she might be in mind next time. This is the solution system known to the physical world, i.e. that when a number of people come to the table, when they are talking to more than one person at a time, it is not that disagreements with one party are over and not before the conversation started with the next person. There's a check for a position like this. Because it was coming from the beginning, and it's actually been happening since the first day of this government, that there are five opposing groups that could have had a conversation with all of them pretty much at once about key points that each class put on the table. That would make us less likely in this position now, i.e. running out of time. That's very bad. I suggest that we do this as well as we can and work so hard together to keep such places from returning.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u52	A respectable president. I just wanted to add that, because my time was over earlier, that we have a case number two in the row. It won't cost one dollar, not a dollar. It's got to be done, inviting micro-piercs to go to work and give them a chance to try to work and earn money, pay taxes, and perhaps not land in the disability system again. It's not gonna cost you a dollar. We've already offered our agreements a choice between these two cases, either way. We're ready to do that. All we ask for is, and all of us in the state of government are asking fairness and justice, getting one single legal case into a vote hall, one of the possible causes. And what would be so hard about it? I'm just not entirely from understanding how a deal is supposed to run in just one way, and the second bidder should always have a forehead in the ground and ask for refuge and say all right, thank you, we'll be content with this. This is no way to make deals, Mr. Honorable President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u53	A respectable president. Once again, I'm sorry that we're discussing these matters here in the Hall of Congress in front of the nation. I have full compassion for what I'm doing. Councilmen who are council presidents and who know that they have been trying hard to solve some solution. But I have to admit that as a private senator, I also feel very special when it comes to negotiating in such a way and the requirement is that all classes of government positions should be delivered, regardless of the size of categories. This is where we spoke. paritaprevir Sæland Goad for the Gang of the People, where there are two senators, about a case she would like... [[Up front.]] Wait a minute, wait a minute. Senator. I also have a matter of Congress inside which are trapped in committees, and they don't cost anything, and that's great. However, there is nothing that will be found in the negotiation. There's a lot of great senators all over the place. I also feel that when we're trying to make a connection, we only have to look at it in the whole context. [[The president calls.]] But then I just wish. Congress officials trying to come to an agreement for our good team in the pursuit of something over which it's not working because it doesn't work this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u54	V.E.G. President. Perhaps primarily to explain the factors involved. paritaprevir Sæland Goland brings up and kicks. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, here in the discussion. It has been proposed in this negotiation that there would be a willingness to attend the council and take up a matter of Congress from each government side. However, it has always been in the field of council groups, from the very beginning, at every meeting, that although the matter was taken on the agenda, more part of the council would have the right either to approve, to file a case, or to refer it to a government. The requirement that this third element, to refer the case to the government, is not a powerful option, as have both the Piratar and the people's party now required, then, is inconsistencies with all that has been spoken of in the past in connection with the efforts of members of Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u55	A respectable president. It is said that it is boring to discuss this in front of the nation, but it is part of the problem that the only tool of the smaller section is to have some effect on the rest of the total power of the more part, the time here in the speaker's table. Part of the control of the more part has always been, not just this more thing, simply running along with a case. The only way that I can remember is by coming to a talk chair to say, "I'm sorry, you have to take a little look at us. It's the only device. There's no lawsuit or anything. The reason why this is being discussed in the speaker's office is that the more part of each one does not want to complete negotiations and sometimes feels comfortable to have some rumor that there is a filamentist going on, etc., when it is simply not willing to complete negotiations, not wanting to take into account a lot of members of Congress, although there is a agreement to pay for members of the council at this council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There wasn't any of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u56	A respectable president. It's kind of weird. How many meetings have we had, visiting, trying to solve these matters? If the work was in a town like that in a community where it had been held, it would have gone wrong. We've all had the opportunity to solve this. Then we'll have federal council members up here telling us that we're in the people's Gang to teach that members of the council are not getting their own business into the council. How far can you go? How in the world can it be the Sons of Gang to teach that governments do not get their affairs into the council? That's impossible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u57	A respectable president. Clearly, humans are getting a little tired. I think it's in the middle of nowhere. [[To illustrate: Never feel better.]] But I think it's our job here to try to complete this council until we meet again in the summer, i.e. in August. It is, of course, the signed agreement mentioned by the founder of this meeting session, to assemble them. Perhaps we need it further if we cannot get together now, which I certainly hope will not be. But it is like this, and there shall not be any other thing; and I have been on either side of the table, i.e. In less part and more, that when it comes to council affairs, they have always been on the table with the three main methods as a matter of course. This is what the Speaker of Independence Committee referred to. This has always been the case. We have rarely handled issues that have been in enormous conflict. Hence, it is surprising when a democracy class, or a democracy class, says: "We remove one of the three things. [[The president calls.]] And because the agreement was quoted in December, that was a solid agreement; approval, disclosure, reference. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u58	President. In view of the problem. paritaprevir A Birgir's Ármannsson sought to turn this into some sort of question-time, I think it's my duty to respond to an inquiry. A senator and point out the obvious. The other one tried anyway. A senator well knows that as the matter continues to unfold, the discussion will be extended. That knew why. On June 2, he knew this ten years ago, and he knew this 20 years ago. But if we look into history and consider, for example. in 2009/2013, for example, the position of the management of the year. A senator knows well, or he knows the position of the left party, I do not speak of the left movement a green supply, but the middle party is appointed nine quiet peacebirds who are seeking only to communicate because the base which has been applied at this point here in the past has no parallel today. So I encourage people to make peace in this matter and to remind them that if they do, they will. The members of Pirata and the Gangs don't want to be referred to by the government, why don't you just let them handle the case on a vote? So the board can take them down if she doesn't want anything to do with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u59	A respectable president. The people have 18 cases inside, and according to the administrations here, one at least, we shouldn't, because we're so few in the council, except 1% of one opinion, or what? [[One-quarter, isn't it?]] One-four. And what of these matters? We've had three cases all along, and then when we've finally made a decision on one subject and we've written a committee opinion and all about it, no, it's totally impossible unless we agree it's exactly the way the government wants it to. We're asking for just one thing, that the case should come in here. Just bring it down. Is having to drop, for example, a problem? leaving at 69th par. Social Security Act? Who was it that came in the 69th? on and said that they had arrived with shoulder ties and belts for social security? It was Davíð the son of Oddsson. There's never been a way to live up to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u60	Mr. President. We're doing well here, but I still have to reiterate it, saying, "I don't believe that it's the general will of the senators that they have the right to represent the council chamber, that it's mandatory that a senator can't, whether he's in the board or if he's in position of government, offer some suggestions. Is it not, then, that the government council members should be allowed to bring a contraband to the government case? Is that something we want to negotiate about? [[Foreplay it: you just strike it down.]] It's not just an act of approval or collapse. It's about not having it, and I can't negotiate on behalf of my platoon and say to him, "No, you can't use this right." It's not fair, and I don't believe that there's something people want. And I've just heard it. I've heard it on the scene of the council plans, since they have not been authorized to negotiate much of their members. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u61	The president wants to say that he will bring about the attitudes discussed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u62	A respectable president. The password, if any part of this matter, is a lucrative task. There are six projects on a so - called cooperative project. It is a ideologies that have been widely seen and historically taught in Iceland by the forward category, a sense of cooperation. It expands in a way that private workers provide funding for projects that then go to the public, i.e. Private and public cooperation projects. There are six projects. It is a round road north of Selephos and a bridge on Elfhust, a highway around the Horn of the Earth, Axes Road, a double Hölfhjörður, a highway around the Mördal, and a tunnel to test Mount Sinai, and a Way to Sun. This is a very different project, and there are different reasons not only for the shortening that is the basis for each project and the amount of traffic there. However, these six projects were judged, as revealed in the Ministry of Transport, suitable for the use of these cohesive ideologies. It's very important here to understand two things about what we're doing at the council as a taxpayer with public funds. On the one hand, we make decisions about priorities and the extra expenses of cooperation. The commission and the review of the FIB say that cooperation projects are at an advantage of approximately A hundred and thirty percent more; the number of Icelandic car owners said more than 33%. It rhymes with what cooperation we have in Iceland, e.g. The Vaults and the Vault tunnel. As a result, they received lower interest rates that would likely have cost the cost. On the other hand, a highway would have been doubled, and unless there had been no government support, it would have been four times as high as it would have been, according to a set calculation of government responsibilities. We're somewhere between 20 and 30%, when we look at this in a bigger context. It is not likely that, overall, although individual projects may be at lower costs than others, we will end up somewhere in these averages, quoted from Europe, to say that cooperation projects may be 20 to 30% more expensive. This is key. We're running P.R.P. on a transport program. We have a collective structure of transport roads in the country, and in that we pay taxes, automobile bills, and gasoline taxes, and whatever is no longer earmarked for transport work, we go to a huge public fund that we issue to carry out these projects. We want the public's priorities on the transport projects that are relevant to a wide variety of indicators, on the basis of regional goals, and on all kinds of profits associated with that community, not just on direct cash, interest, and so on. There are safety reasons and the kind that the government can take to heart that affect the priorities of the government, which is not just pure and smart, money politics. There are a lot more things that benefit the community in general than just what dimes and dimes will make in the box for each project, since the effect is often indirect and not something that goes through the government fund particularly. When it comes to such priorities, it is very easy to see what work a government fund is funding to get the most practical use of public funds. But we don't have that priority, so we get it about that. in the production of transport programmes, but we are not allowed to see the underlying diagnostic work. We senators cannot see that a particular project, which is next on the list, but that cannot be accessed to a transport plan, has these requirements, or has certain benefits, which would give us the opportunity to say: This project is more profitable for society than it is now being carried out. If we only go to the national court, a political decision was made to reorder that list. Of course, we'd like to see, from that priority list as set up in all different calculations, whether or not it's being slanted out by political grounds, a ballot or something like that, and we'd like to expect to have an impact and political opinion on it here in this council hall. Once we have this list, we can look at the work being done as a teamwork project. If they are somewhere very low on the list, sufficiently lower to justify the 201⁄230% extra costs for users, they justify the cost of waiting for the project, as compared to the profites given in the priorities, there is more. At that time, the majority of projects have become more profitable for the community, with the extra cost of cooperation projects, rather than waiting for it in an official process through a transport program. However, this is not the case with the six projects because the priority list is not available. Then we have no basis to say that this is a work that is suitable for transport and cooperation. I'm just gonna go over the difference between government interest and private property. As I said before, public agencies are able to take much more of the interest in transport. This means that at the cost of 10 billion or something like that, the secondary profit is much higher than the profit that can be obtained solely by collecting roads to pay for it. Thus, the government can make a number of other profits, in effect, to pay for these transport projects, in a much more practical way, on both the credit rates of the government and on the other hand, because it can be taken into account by society to pay the loans that the government may need to take in these cases. On the other hand, the private person can only look into interest in taking the cost of such projects, which means that inhabitants of the developed areas and users of the transport process, which would pay the project down with the social gain that will be due to the building, will be able to do so in public projects rather than on their own initiative because they pay all in the tax. Of course, social profits are available, but they need to be transferred to this high cost, at least 20 to 30%, and all of this is paid through the expenses. It delays the use of money, social gain, from the construction process, to the full with the means of making money. This simply means a tax rise. There's nothing complicated about it. This is not only a tax increase if a work is set aside on a work of cooperation, which is the lower of the list that the difference between the extra cost and the community cost that would be achieved by doing the project earlier is enough to benefit both. This is the complete key to selecting which tasks are suitable for cooperation. If we choose priorities that are important to society's interest and cooperate with them, then the project we have already paid for by our taxes is about to be reimbursed. Then I'm not even going to start talking about how tax returns are paying the same amount of money to everyone, like a dog. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson has talked about, I'm going to let him have that conversation for himself, I just wanted to bring it up for a moment. For the final part of my talk, I would like to talk about what has once been said about the maintenance of public funds. Of course, government funds cannot just go and borrow everything, always and forever. But if government funds are taking loans for lucrative projects, i.e. Work that pays off the loan itself will even increase financial support. There is a limit to the scope of the community's specific performance. There are just so many graves and so many people that can work, and so on. and more competitive, it becomes more expensive to obtain contractors, etc. It makes it impossible for the government to take as much loans as possible, but it is also limited by how much work can be done, which will be more expensive and more expensive, which will eventually make the public's potential even greater than it would cost to work in cooperation with an assignment at hand. For this reason, a private member would prefer to go to the project on his own terms and gain money from the project rather than on the grounds of the government, where only the work and interest are not directly distributed over the period involved. We have to look at it at this point, in the condition we've been going through, that loans are easy, and that they come at good rates. At least most of these projects, although they lack analysis and assessment of what we can cross and view, are generally very lucrative and very beneficial for the community in general and especially for the surrounding communities in the affected areas. This means that borrowing for projects that themselves earn the profits they have for the community as a whole is never a bad idea, especially with the credit rates offered and the opportunities for projects that are usually present when it is difficult to do so. The opportunity to have increased implementation, to speed up projects, as suggested here, is definitely present, otherwise the effort would not be made to speed up the project and speed it up. The option is whether we should do so at a cost with e.g. borrowing or selling property, or in any other way than 20 to 30% higher fees, taxes, for society. This is the option. I don't see how you can think of these projects as taxing projects. When I ask the committee, the Ministry asks, they simply say they're suitable. They are suitable, as I have mentioned before, for a certain shortcut, e.g. Not much in terms of an elf bridge but relatively large in regard to a mountain of testing and with the Axes Road, but they are not necessarily ideal for traffic. The amount of traffic does not necessarily depend on the fees that should otherwise be paid at the expense of the project. Therefore, there has been thought of, e.g. with the Hornland River and Axe Road, whether only part of that project would be a cooperative project, a quarter, or any part that would be suitable for tuning charges so as not to exceed them. That ideologies are of interest and can certainly be part of an increasing share of the government in these cooperation projects. But again it must be on that basis for setting priorities. If the projects are actually so profitable and have high priorities, the taxes we already pay should simply be sufficient for them. It is no further explained why this is a suitable task for this difference between the cost and the social profits that are going to increase the priority of priorities. It seems that these are tasks where it is easy to set up a roadside gate and charge for, rather than anything else. Then I think I've gone over all of this. Just a little bit more about the Sunway. Indeed, they have been waiting for the Daffy Way for decades. It's very understandable of a particular traffic situation through Mosfellstown, etc., which is on the basis of Seleucus now, that they don't want the round road through town. That is understandable. Overall, a specific transport system is being developed in the capital, e.g. with the capital contract, which deals with a variety of travel methods. We live in a slightly different situation in the capital city than we do in most places. It is a fixed structure and size based on the type of travel that works in such a vast, dense area. It simply does not work that the car or the home car or any word we want to use upon it is the traveller that everyone needs to use to get around here in the capital. As the capital is growing, the more space the car takes from an apartment building, makes apartment housing more expensive, makes it more expensive because people need to spread more and more, and it simply isn't sustainable for a long time. We see that such cities in the United States are designed, and they have enormous problems with design in their cities and a tremendous amount of cost. Therefore, we need to stress the structure of another form of travel. In the case of the capital as well as the development that will occur over the next 20 years, in terms of the increase in capital population and the like, the priority list is just higher than that of the city analysis we have seen. It is more effective than building on the stockways at the present time, including Sunwater Road. But there must surely be a consideration for the Sunway, since the time is rapidly approaching and before the city line is in full swing, it must begin to work on the Sunway.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for his speech I'm gonna start off with him to mention the Sun path. It's inside. It's an amazing phenomenon that's been discussed for years. This reminds me, and has always reminded me, another phenomenon that I have heard about even longer, or three times longer than the swimming track, which is the higher road, the higher road. [[Up top, up above...?]] [[Foreground on: Yes.]] He's been on a drawing 40Howand 50 years ago and he's still on the blueprint, but to get him on the blueprint needs to go under Garville, I think, drill through there. But what might be the odd thing about this is, if we take the Sunway, what's to be solved? Can we not agree that it is a little strange that it should come to the West Road and connect to it? Most of those who come to the country, using highway 1, come from Keflavík, from the Southnes, and from there. However, in order to use the Sunway, people must go through Hafnarfjördur, Garnd Town, Kópavog, and Reykjavík to get to the blessed Sunway so that they will always be bottlenecks. [[Up front.]] So we're starting on the wrong end. I'd say we should start by solving this problem. I've traveled around the world a lot. I've never had to go through three or four societies to get past a city because I'm going somewhere else, north, east, west. In Denmark, you don't go through any community when you're going to leave Copenhagen and all the way to Germany, you just go straight on the highway. If you want to go into some community, you just turn down. But here in Iceland it is something else. The only thing missing from this program, I think, would be making a call morning on the Seltjanarnes. [[Up front.]] You'd have to go there before you could get out of town.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u64	A respectable president. For example, what may be the main solution, or what people at any rate want them to solve, there is a particular flow of water in the A T - shirt. But that's not the only purpose of the Daffy Way at all. It is also the connection to the dock, so that all imports that come from the Sun crew, etc. You don't have to go through these same rural areas to get to the airport as much as the west or south of the country. In effect, the waterway bypasses this and is a direct connection to the harbor. Another possibility would be to move it, but it has been relatively ready to go to a number of structured areas there and to plan for it and for some things that have developed there. We are also in the same situation with the city area of Reykjavík. There are so many things, and since we've begun there, we had problems with our hospitals too. Over 20 years passed before it was decided to be built there, but then it suddenly came to a decision: Hey, no, no, it must not, there must be another diagnosis. Because this diagnosis wasn't suitable for us. So, that analysis was, if we weren't going to build the hospital somewhere else, to build it in Fos Cove. It would only be most suitable for various reasons that were listed, for the location in the central city would be absurd for all traffic connections and so on. But this was not suitable, and a new committee was formed that was to be discussed taking into account the downtown community and the location of the hospital. We've been getting involved in this sort of thing for decades because of some sort of will or credit: No, I want it where it is. Don't change anything. We are trapped in it somehow, and as a result, nothing happens. There's no future, and there's nothing moving. This is true of the Sunway, outland road, Land hospital, Reykjavík, airport, and all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. I cannot help but agree with him in many ways. If we just take the Sunway. Product transport is from ships to shore and back again, but the transfer of fresh fish has increased dramatically, which must take off from Chefavík. Then he would come through the waterway and through all the rural areas in slow motion, but he would likely try to be reasonable and to move it at night. But it doesn't change it, we're solving, I'd say, this case in the wrong way. But I kind of want to talk about something else. That's the six projects. Counts 'em out. A senator that has the right priorities, and if not, how would he want to see their priorities and priorities? For example, in the context of what we have been basking over the past few decades, i.e. These monotonous bridges, which are huge accidents. They are still above 30 and appear to be slow down. I heard someone having the fantasy that they're going to take 28 or 30 on this road plan, but I haven't seen it, and I don't buy it. We should focus on the accident trap. And there's something else I'm worried about. We've seen, and I was most shocked by one side of the beach, the butts we've always been with. It's a hell of a cost. If we were to offer all of this in one pack, the state would take the responsibility, take the loan, and then we'd have to go to an invitation and we'd have to finish it all in one package, we'd get the best version. How'd it look? It's a senator's?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u66	A respectable president. The question of priorities is larger than these six projects, and it is larger than the transport strategy it provides, for what is missing, as I said, is to begin with the most important priorities at all. But it must be based on something that does not exist. We do not know, and the road structure does not know what the roads are, what are so - called roads. It knows the desired roads, which road should lead from A to B, but when it comes to the road type: what's really between A and B, she says, "I don't know. Which is something important. What we need is simply a clear picture of the whole country, that this is the way our transportation system works, according to what we know best today. Then ports and airport connections and all of this would be in there. If this were the way the transportation system was like this, we wouldn't have to start any new projects, just maintenance. Then, with everything we know, we would have built up a transportation project. That's what's missing, because if we had it, we could easily compare the present situation, which we don't even know how ironic it is with what a shiny picture we should have. In order to get out of the current state in perfect condition, these obvious barriers and port connections and the most beneficial, the greatest profits, and the growing quality of time must be started in a simple manner. But we have neither. We don't have a shiny picture, and we don't have our priorities. And without knowing how the road really is between A and B, it is not even possible to create this priority. The problem is that all of this is far deeper than whether it is the right priorities for the six projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u67	President. This key point on transport projects is, in fact, my impression, that a transport strategy is not to be carried out. It is not to be followed by the framework set on professional transport conditions in the country where certain viewpoints must be considered that transport is the primary objective of economic, economic, safe, and environmental sustainable development. They don't want to go that way. V.E.G. Clearly, a secretary of transportation is not so strong that he could have provided funding for the projects needed, even if the infrastructure was one of the major campaigns for the last elections in all groups and that she could enter the Constitution, especially the building blocks. Still, it's going to work out for the highest level. Transporter not to get any more money from the highest level. Secretary of finance to ensure transportation in his community. What is done? Yes, because three of the six projects in the bill are a prime example. Transport and Regional Ministers - even if some of these projects were involved in the transport process, some are lower - they are pulled out of a transport program. Then a transport plan is adopted. What happens then? At that point, transport plans are locked for three years. This project must follow the course suggested in this bill. How much? Yes, they've been taken out of a professional frame, and these projects have already been established to be in cooperation with a private member or that private people can see about them altogether. " According to their calculations, " says the Icelandic car owners'union, it will cost 33% more for those who have to use this road. Okay, if you're gonna go that way, it's good to ask yourself, " Is this something people want? Is this something the locals want? They are borne out: Yes, the locals want it, the rural governments in these areas have accepted it. What about the locals? Would it pay 33% higher prices because a secretary of transportation failed to secure money on these projects even if it is in the government covenant to put the roads and infrastructure first? Is that what the locals want? We don't know, we know the local governments have agreed. I've kept asking if there was a poll among the people in the rural areas. For me, it would be the first requirement to see if the people who have to use it and pay this extra price are willing to accept it. Number two is to ask: Those who have to drive by, who don't even live in the countryside, but who also have to drive there, do they agree? Do people feel comfortable paying up to 33% higher prices to get this way? Some of them would have been in the transport program anyway. When I spoke up about this matter, I received it from a member of the council. I also said: " Yes, but one of my concerns is that these projects are being carried out and paid for. Then it is said, "Yes, there are other ways. There are other ways. Yes, but these other ways may still get a little bit down. Will people survive the time of this project to hold on to the mountain road, the edge of the road? I said, "Who's gonna build it up?" Isn't she gonna get drunk? The senator who answered said: "Yes, it could well be that. Of course it can. Of course, when priorities are removed, they find themselves in a long way so that they cannot even receive money from the State in securing them projects. Will people try to convince those who have to use this means that there is another way by which they will be held? No, that's not convincing, and that's not true. This will find a lower priority, of course, and right. There's nothing about putting money in it. But that's what this costs. One of the justifications given is that there may be other means, costing them to drown. That's what we know. It is also spoken of as being practical. No, it's not practical to have a private person participate in this. They have expensive funds that cost a lot. Yes, it's practical for the privates. They can put their money in a job and charge a lot of money. The bill doesn't even show how much money they can charge. They can charge a lot of money to use the roads they built. Then what would the government charge for it? The government can borrow 1% today. No one's competing with it. It is by far the most affordable time for the Kingdom to take up such projects. It is according to the voter's election, and it is according to the Treaty that puts the priority for the infrastructure on the road. If the members of Parliament who support this case and the spokesman for the case, Njáll Friðbertsson, and especially the local minister of government, would be better up in ensuring financial support for the projects needed, that would not be necessary. In fact, this is what it takes to become a government member of the Independence Organization with a financial minister who holds the cord. This requires that a minister of finance be careful not to let his advisers do anything. A health minister would like to make sure that a good deal is made with nurses. Secretary of finance says: "No, I don't negotiate to raise my salary. He is a very hard negotiator, and it should not surprise anyone. Again, he has nurses paid in a formality. That's what he's doing. This would have been clear on the left when they went to the government of the Independence Party. This should also have been clear. They get the Ministry of Transport, but they don't get the opportunity to get enough money on transport and rurals to secure transport without doing what independence would like, i.e. To do private work. It's their wet dream. This is what both the candidates and the left green have attached themselves to. They've tied themselves to the guy with the purse that can say, "You can't get a dose, you can't go where you want to but on my terms." In these cases it is a personal development of the transport system and the need for people to pay much more for the ministry. Independence can then just say: These are not tax increases. Just look at how good we are. We'll make sure there's no tax increases. Of course, these are, in fact, tax increases. But they can say that. Meanwhile, left greens have to submit to much more expensive roads and transport projects by private living. This is the situation. Let's get this together. There could have been a way of adding more money to the fact that roads were just a means of transportation. Some were already there. There was one thing I was told about, too. When these six projects are taken out of a transport program, some of them would have been able to fit into the financial frame that already exists but some of them don't, jump up other people. What are the ones that jump up? I haven't had the answer, but it'd be interesting to see. If a project is being completed anyway, it is not being done because it is practical. This is being done because some other project is being pushed up. What are these projects? That would be very interesting to know. This is what it's all about. Although it is specifically referred to the construction of the roads in a government contract, most of it is. The secretary of finance barely and the highest. The local government and transport minister is so sick that he cannot guarantee this unless he goes the way the lndependence wants, which is privatizing this road. Of course, left greens allow themselves to become privatized, letting people pay much more, flat taxes on all those who have to use the roads. V.E.G. The spokesman for the case, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, will be very talkative about the Halfunda tunnel. Yes, exactly, the Halfground tunnel. People are happy today because we've got a whale tunnel, but over it, they've lost it. I just got numbers about it, like, a billion. Fifty million a year just for running the payback side in that case. For that brain, it was more expensive than if the State had. These are the numbers I just got information about. Who is surprised that the state can receive a far less expensive budget than the money paid by private citizens, even in the whale model, which many are happy with in the rearview mirror? What about Válla-head tunnels? It is a private project, a private property, only to handle it. But the state had to pay 8 billion into that fracasco. I was at a fundraiser when they came from the State to care for these matters. They were quite critical. The government had had to pay so much of the public money into this project that it had become a state of government under all definitions. But it was on its way. It's what people are afraid of, normal. People are afraid that in exactly some of these ideals, transport programs are being implemented and taken on a private or private job. And what happens when and if these projects get into trouble? There's nothing certain about it, except that politicians do exactly what they do with a guard tunnel. They say, 'Now the kingdom must run for it.' And the taxpayers end up paying, such as by the Vador tunnel, half the work, and not having any of it. They pay half the money and then 100% of the payload. This is what happens when people take transport out of the professional framework set out for transport in such a ideal pool and squeeze it in on some other basis. This is what has happened in the past. It scares the track. I could see that the manager sat here in the audience listening but just stared at the ceiling. He's out of the hall now because he can't stand sitting under it. In his district, three of the six projects are to be started. He has no idea if those who need to use these roads are happy. The rural government is happy, and who's sitting in them? Civil authorities here on the southwest corner, who are in the custody of the Independence Party, demand to get paid on the projects to be carried out because the Allegors don't want to pay with the public money. They want to limit as much as possible the construction of roads paid by public funds because taxes need to be paid, and it's just the policy of the pack not to raise taxes and to lower them as much as they possibly can get away with. It's the Independence Party policy. The Independence Party is in charge of this case, and it is bringing both the forward party and the left greens on its backs, and having left greens sign it, with history and direction of this case through the council, across both their viewpoints and those of the Treaty that the left greens agreed to put in the priority for road construction and the other. use the government's belongings to do that. So this is the worst, and this, hopefully, is going to be the next election and will cost the members of the Southern Parliament who accept this, the Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, the chairman of the case, Vilhjálmur Árnason, who also serves on a transport committee and has agreed on this matter for them, and then, of course, the Transportal Minister himself, the Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u68	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson for his speech. I'm thinking of all these projects, and we've got a hell of a warning for us, which is the Walla-Head tunnel. What is, in effect, the greatest warning example of the Walla-Hall tunnel was how the tunnels were removed after they were first opened. It was as if they were leading everyone through the tunnel and especially those who did not know how to walk past the tunnel and not pay for it. And I'm wondering how this is going to be implemented in all of the six places. Then there is Axi, who is the road I have -- I was trying to recall it back -- I'm sure I was going once, and then I was in a hurry, but if I'm not in a hurry, I'll take the other road that's 61 miles, a much cooler way, and a much more fun way to go. The evidence is that 2,000◯3,000 can be paid. For leaving Axi. That would save 60 miles, and that's the most recent electrical linkage of trucks. So it could be done at a very small expense, perhaps a hundred, as the situation is today. So there's no problem passing by. But I'm wondering if anyone knows if the cost of these projects was calculated. I don't know what this whole thing is going to be, how huge a coin is back there. How much would this cost every car in the country if it was placed on the premium? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u69	President. I'm not on the committee, so I don't have any numbers clear in this regard, in terms of the cost, but there are, of course, a lot of people who use it and place it on all the cars in the country. They say there's not enough money on roads and always lower the fuel costs, there's electrical cars coming, etc. People talk and talk and point out the problem. Where is the solution? That's a very simple solution. If you want to continue a flat tax or flat fee, so that you will pay the same price, given what they use the road system, you can do it with a mileage on your cars. Well, then you read it. It's forbidden to mess with. People can fuck with it and cheat. If so, it is only possible to add stronger laws and more research on how to do so. They also cheated on the diesel and replaced machines, using a diesel machine that had a color in it so that they could buy a less expensive colored diesel that is used on machines and so on. They just sealed the plane. There are all kinds of things you can do to cheat. You can never create a system where nobody cheats, you can get almost everybody, and then everybody pays flat. If you still want to have a flat currency, you can do so with the cost of a mile and to make sure that these types of money taken are the weight on the road, and that is not today, and not even with regard to the expenses commonly taken by car owners. This is just the conscious policy of those who have been in charge of this country for a very long time to use the money for anything other than road projects. You can do this and pay for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. It's kind of exciting. If we take, for example, 1 0,000 k. The tax for every car, and there's 300,000 cars in the country, we've got 3 billion. And if we put this into reasoning, somebody's gonna say, "I never go anywhere, I don't have to pay in the East or West, or anywhere." That's exactly the same as for the State Radio. It's just that everybody's paying the government radio money, even if they never listen to it and don't want to see it. This can be done, and by some means we'll get rid of the collection. We're going to make a giant shower to collect this. It's gotta cost a little bit. We know it's really cool, this will be the minimum cost of connecting, etc. But we know that. We know that this will be cost a lot of money, and there's nothing to tell us. If we were really thinking outside the box and trying to make it practical, we'd be taking this cost. As with the cost of a mile, it's only possible to read in cars once a year, deciding that they're paid just for every mile, and then we don't have to have expenses or some huge structure trying to figure out how much this cost. Then, of course, the greatest fear of all, if this takes place on your own, is that the cost of getting out of control, as did the Valley tunnel, which seems to have been done somehow in the blind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u71	President. That's right. Something's gonna cost to collect it. This is not an efficient route. The most effective way would be to have a system that everyone knew, like what it was. A senator mentions. There's a lot of structure for all kinds of services and so on here in the capital, and everyone in the country has a right to attend this service, they pay for it, etc. These are grammatical views that have been identified regarding e.g. In order to attend this service in the same way as others, the city should be readily available to people. What the country has called for is a great deal of care to make sure that road transport there, not only for further service but also for longer application - it is a longer way to go to get a service - it is usually better to go to work. And part of it is that it's paid by the public money, but all this building here in the capital is paid by public funds. But this time the South Precinct is to be charged in particular for having some projects with him. Why? I can't see that it's anything but that the secretary of finance just says, "No, you don't get that much money. But there's a way to get these projects, and that's if it's private. It's the Independence Party's dream of transport development in Iceland. So that's what it's like in Gard Town, that's how it is in the local communities that are around, they want it in their decks, they got some cool suggestions for it, but, of course, it's got to pay for it. This is what they want, and this is what they get with this. But I'm going to hope that the secretary of transportation and the local government and the members of the council of the Southern District, including Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, who is the head of this case through the council, wants the people to pay for it. [[The president calls.]] And so naturally, if this currency is the way it is, there's gonna be a picture of all the license plates so that privacy will be reduced. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They'll spy on where you're driving.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u72	President. I mentioned it to S. Brjánsson when he was sitting on the President's chair that I requested that Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, the chairman of the case, sit here and observe the discussion about the case he is conducting through the council. I specifically mentioned it to the highest. The council president, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, yesterday. When I wanted a minister to come, he said that would normally be a normal requirement. Ministers would do so in 1st. but the prominent in the case could handle the situation. You can request that in the other discussions, but you can be prepared to sit down and observe the discussion and participate in it when it comes to the 2nd and 3rd districts. It's a 2nd. in cases where a special fee is to be paid, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson may find it awkward to have to operate through the council, sitting in the South Sea. But I wish he would be called upon to observe this discussion. He ironed out of the hall when I gave my speech here just a few minutes ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u73	I'm not sure President heard that last one. [[Take it up: He was ironing out of the hall.]] But the President can at least tell that. A senator who is asked is at a house, and he can, of course, observe wherever he is in this house. But the president will, of course, inform you that his presence is requested. I'll take it up to the what. A senator who is to be asked may be watching even if he is not here in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u74	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss this matter a little bit, maybe not necessarily on the subjects involved, even if I'll come in on them only afterwards, but primarily on the way that has gone. As mentioned in the bill, this is about a so-called "Public-Private Partnership" channel that has been translated into several ways in Icelandic. At times, a cooperative project or something like that is referred to. The concept of a personal or a project fund is also used. In the foundation, this is about the fact that instead of the state's success in financing and carrying out an assignment by recruiting contractors who do the work on the government's behalf, they not only do the project but also finance and, in fact, possessors of the project. Of course, this is in various ways, but this arrangement has not been entirely free of criticism over the years. Three years ago, in 2017, 152 organizations worldwide, which deal with things such as the eradication of poverty, increased equations in communities, environmental environment, gender equality, and so forth, presented a challenge to the World Bank that may have been the most efficient means of promoting these private projects - I don't know what to use but I intend to stick to myself on my own - around the world for a very long time. This 152 organization agreed to criticize it on the basis of the cost-and-risk measures, i.e. that usually costs about 30% more than comparable projects that are funded by the state. And in various cases the cost has doubled. Then there may be the Icelandic example of a Vadalah tunnel, where the cost almost doubled. There is also a hospital in Lesotho, which was far beyond the schedule and 3.2 billion euro projects that hit Spanish taxpayers and the public because they failed in the hands of private citizens. In all of these cases, the risk of the government lands. Physics is referred to, by permission of the presidents, by the CC◯PP games, or by the places whereby you're going to be going. It could be translated as a national cost, but as a personal gain or profit, it could be a sign. Such games are about exactly what is on the label, that the public is made to carry all the cost when projects go wrong, that the public actually take all the risks of the project, but when the project is successful, the designated private partners will benefit. Now I'm very fond of open, free markets, and I'd like them to exist. But I can't see that this is consistent with the idea of a free market. This is a way of using government in the interest of a particular private member, and it is being justified by a reference to the public. Of course, the difference is mainly the financing, i.e. Who owes the money, and who will take the risk? We saw at the time that Kingdom responsibilities rules were cut off to allow Kingdom responsibilities to be carried out. In fact, despite the technical presence of a private partner, the threat to the State fell. The next point is where the healing takes place. Who benefits from paying a price? The payout, alone, has been repeatedly criticized in this context because people who already pay a considerable amount of money on automobile bills, fuel bills, and others have no great interest in paying, as well as to paying for the use of roads that should be based on public interest. There's a way to argue about this point. A third factor is social improvement. Everyone agrees that these six projects on the bill are important for the sake of public interest. They all serve -- or okay, I have doubts about one thing - they serve most of the public. As the 152 organization pointed out, the difference between the state of the rich and the poor is enhanced when people who may not have much among their hands have to pay for the use of infrastructures that would normally have been a public service under any circumstances. The 152 organization also pointed out that so-called PPP projects, or private projects, were associated with an increased risk of corruption and that they reduced the ability of governments to set standards for personal interest. This has been observed repeatedly, e.g. in the two examples I mentioned, i.e. from Spain and Lesotho, and from beyond. In extreme cases, I'm not concerned about the Icelandic case, the organization points out that such a personal project can threaten environmental issues and even human rights. I'm not worried about that, at least not in the case of the six projects here. It is worth it, though, that we take very seriously these organizations, which were sent to the World Bank in 2017, and we realized how much harm has occurred when all the risks fall on the community while profits are actually left in private hands. It's not a free marketing operation. It's about the use of government in behalf of certain private people, and it's justified by a public reference. Then it may be reasonable to ask ourselves about the importance of the materials. We know these projects are important; the Ring road north of Selephos; the bridge of Elfhust; the highway around the Horn of the Earth; the map of Axe Road; the highway around the Snow Valley; the tunnel of Tryins; and the Sunway. All of this is a project that can be agreed to as national arrangement. They are important and should come about as soon as possible. I have some doubts about the importance of double Halfland marches. I have seen no direct evidence of that operation, but I think that would mean that four lanes were under the beach. Actually, there are only two lanes on either side of the tunnel, unless you want to add the lane. At any rate, however, the discussion should be about having two lanes right up to the tunnel and then seeing to it the rest. Okay, let's say all six projects are important. The argument should then be some way in which it should be reasoned: The work is clearly in the public interest. They all matter to society. Then they should be carried out by the Kingdom. That's all it takes. There is no need to add this additional step: But we are going to have a private carer finance them. But we're going to let privates charge for what they're paying for. But we're gonna let privates take the money from this. We've been through Iceland's history, and, actually, most people's history if not every country around the world, used public funds to build wood, and it's worked. I have not been able to understand why at the time we were able to build an Elf - Year Bridge as it is today. But there is no way to finance a new elf - year bridge now. I haven't had a good explanation for that. In fact, I haven't even had a bad explanation for that. I have not yet received any explanation as to why the government fund, despite the fact that the figures say otherwise, is so desperate that we cannot finance a building that has been ignored for decades. Instead of answering that question, and even deciding that we will contribute money to building up the wood needed, the race is all into the hands of some private people who want to make money doing what the State should have done and should do. I don't understand this ideologies. Then some say: Yes, it's about priorities. I agree with that. Of course it's about priorities. We are to set priorities for the work to be done, and it is clear that all of these tasks should be placed in place somewhere. Some should be more serious than others, some perhaps slightly earlier, because some of the transport projects may be more reasonable in priorities. Why, though, can't all these assignments take priority and start at the right time? What, then, makes it impossible to do that and put the money needed to build up the wood needed and then earn only the hundreds of billions of dollars of cash that we all know to exist? You see, it's quite interesting. There are laws on public finances that have kept the government's expenses, not just the expenses, but the entire government business, in a straitjacket. The debt ratio and all is somehow so sacred in the eyes of the government that it is more likely to go on to something that has been described as costly, risky actions that increase the difference between rich and the poor, increase the risk of corruption, reduce the capacity of the State to set standards for personal interest, etc. with all the examples we know of, from the Havenan tunnel, which took a little over for the total cost of 20%, to a Válavön walk, which went by about 8 billion dollars. and ended to 17 billion overall, etc. It was determined to do that rather than face the obvious truth that the laws on public finances are wrong. The commitment is wrong. The building of a law on public finances is wrong. It's based on a breakdown in ideologies. It's supposed to be fixed. Why is this needed? Because society's structure is just hanging around until it's fixed. These specific laws may even suggest a brief look at the pig and make it appear that something more is going on, provided that some private people view some of this project as sufficiently profitable for themselves. True, I suspect in some cases that it is obvious, even predetermined. But we know society's structure is costing money. We may not necessarily know how much it costs to run a community, and that may be the political issue here. People have different ideas about how important it is to a community. But I think everyone can be realistic and watch it so that allowing society's infrastructure to rot down, wait forever to attack important projects, and then go this way, is not a good way to run a community. What makes this worse is -- and now I may speak as a member of the South American District who still doesn't like this particular political structure - that it's a certain ball of opportunity. There are some preparations taken out of the transport package, out of normal priorities, and telling people that these will somehow go faster because the State is going to step aside. But the fact is that it could have gone much faster if the State had just taken a stand, fixed the laws on public finances, financed the necessary tasks, and done this well, as has been done repeatedly over the years, and seemed to have been fully practiced until some 40 years ago. It was suddenly unpopular for society to build itself on its own terms and with cooperation and cooperation. That's why I don't understand what this is called a cooperation project. Isn't the community a cooperation project? Can we not try to do these things on the normal basis? There's something that matters to me, that matters to our voters, that is important to the public in the country: the highways north of Selephos, a bridge over Alpha, a highway north of the Hornland, Axes Road, double Hölfjörður, no doubt, a highway around the Myrdal and a tunnel in test mountain, that's been spoken for many years, and I don't know how many decades there are. In any case, it's important that we complete these tasks. It is important that we do well, and it is important that these become in use so that the public can benefit from and for our economic systems to benefit from better transportation. But doing so in this way actually violates the goal of a good society. It's a bad way. It's been the most complex. We all have samples that we need. I can't believe people can't do things better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u75	Mr. President. We're here discussing transport cooperation projects called PPP in everyday speech, with reference to the English term of co-work as these so - called Private Partnership. As in so many other transport discussions, the aim is to expand, increase the number and speed up of projects. This is one of the pieces of that game. I'm with what's-his-face. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason on a minority list 2th, reduces the share of the environment and transport organisation. paritaprevir In the discussion earlier, Karl Hjaltason Einara went over. I restate on the fact that our two opinions are warped in there, and we thought it best to keep them in line for this discussion. In addition to what is stated in the minority opinion that I mentioned here, I would like to come in specifically and reiterate the views I've said, and I would do to make a film in 1st. the thing about the matter, that, on the basis of my words, I agree that this prince, to go on this cooperation project, will be an option. That's an excellent experience with the Haggard and Speli. Only further details will be made regarding the implementation of Vella-hideways. But it's probably a form that will be available for projects suitable for such models. Here I would like to reiterate my criticism of the highest route. The secretary of transportation decided to choose the implementation of the case, i.e. In effect, this relatively narrowness is defined by the six related tasks, of course, that are physically different. Three of these are that they are traditional road - building projects that are close to time and that may in themselves be on a traditional transportation program; the way around Axi, the Horn of the Earth, and a bridge across the Fairy Sea. The other three projects are different, much more technical, further in the future with regard to organizational, environmental, and so forth. It is a lowland road and a tunnel of Tryins, a channel of deep water, and a double whale - soil march. I'm especially coming in on a double Halfland march after. I have doubts about that idea for many reasons, but I keep it a little. I think it would have been wise to make these legislation more structured as a framework that would take into account how the form would be, how it would be organized, and thus set up. The council went on to take a decision on the basis of such arrangements, forming by interpretation, and granted the authority to perform certain tasks on the basis of such arrangements. I think it would have been a lot better than to put it on the course as the highest. The secretary of transportation decided to do so. However, it is something that later Congress has the opportunity to work with and move for the better. At the same time, I would like to criticize the fact that at this time there are three cases at the council in which there is one way or another payment. It is in the transport program, which was completed three, four days ago, that is in the Ohf case, which said to give financial secretary permission to establish an official partner on the work of the transport contract in the capital area, and then in this case. So in three places it is being discussed and completed here in the council, all of whom have a variety of distributions as one of their cores. Of course, if some sense were in and things were in the right order, frame laws would have been developed on how the payer might be adapted to make the most sense that the wheel was not being invented in each case. It was based on how the Council saw fit to hold these currency fractions, and then other issues came out of that approach. That's what I think would have been a more reasonable order of things. But unfortunately, it's not working, and I think it's a bit bearable by it, as if with so many other things these days, that it's just starting on the wrong end. This is a bit like yesterday's presentation of how the chairs of the city's shelters should look, but at the same time there's no schedule, so I'm going to rip it up here in this context. I again criticize the fact that things are being won in the wrong order. There are two points, two parameters, in this case that I think can create a warped position to process in later stages, especially one of them. First, a project has a maximum of 30 years of reimbursement. I think that if we watch a lifetime of projects, interest costs, and so forth, it would be wise to have only as much room as possible to measure it for each project. But that in itself is not a result. What may be reversed in this is the point of view, I think, in new places on the bill, i.e. that road users have a different choice. This is the view that was kept in mind when a special law on the fixation of Whalehjörður, the Institute of Spalar, and all of this were adopted at the General Assembly. Then there was the view that the roadfarers had a different route, in the case of driving for the Halfland. Of course, the reality is that for people who are applying to make a job from Acdéri, Citynes, or somewhere from the countryside to the capital area, driving the Half every day is no alternative. Of course, if you look at it with a measure of reasonableness, you will be able to do so. If the evidence is that there's another way around Haglfland for those who don't want to pay their fees in the Havenan tunnel, there's actually another way all the places and jobs. I've sometimes said it here, although there's a little bit of a joke that cars went to Hafnar in the Hornfjord before the ring road was over. They just went north and east. So there's always another way. So I have not had the conviction to approach the highest degree. A minister of transportation in this matter would be wise to encourage it in this way. Then I'll get to what's going on to the Hagland tunnel. First of all, I think a double Halfland march is quite a long way in the future if there is a need for that action at some point. I think much more is the importance of extending the road through the Kjalarnes to the tunnel, which, of course, is in progress, then from tunnel to citynes and from events. It has far more to do with traffic flows and security than does a new Havenan tunnel parallel the present. It has often been said in the discussion that once a certain amount of traffic has been reached, it is forced by European rules. That statement is based on misunderstanding. The European principle applies to tunnels that were opened after the Vaults were opened. So that's a misunderstanding. As for possible paybacks in the future, another tunnel must be remembered to pay up the current Whelfground tunnel by currency. They were paid to the full, and duets were suspended just over a year ago. Then there is the point: If there is a new tunnel under these labels, would you like to charge only them but keep the others free? A bus that just goes one way? Is there another way out there? Is there yet another way to argue that the Hill Hill is really another way? My answer to that question is: No, if a person makes a decision to have a reference in a different way, it will not interfere with a job application between areas. I think there's a point of view about the Hagland tunnel and how possible bankruptcy would be done and so forth, along the streets that have just not been thought of to the end about that approach to the highest degree. Ministers that there must be another way. I just repeat that there's been a payout for the current Whaleyard tunnel. Roadfarers are not getting shorter distances. Certainly, traffic flow becomes better for a few hours a year. I don't think there's going to be any justification for spending 24 hours every day, every day of the year, getting rid of a little tough business weekend, and on either side we're going to make a weekend on the top of the summer. So these views need to be considered. I don't think it's going to be done with any sense unless the government is able to control it, and I don't think that it's gonna be in three different cases, as in this case, for the treatment of the council. But I'm just going to let it work out what the Haggard tunnel thinks is all about. I'm not going to extend this discussion any more than the word is, but I'd like to reiterate that we in the Central Group are in the Prince's honor to be able to establish the cooperation between private and public members of certain types of projects. Eventually, all of this goes on to increase the scope of new projects and move on, speed them up. It also has to be kept in mind that at the same time it is necessary to ensure that evolution and new ideas, which are possible for the private person to have a thought - out view so that all these tasks are done with the most practical and as best possible, by traffic flow, by security, and by financial considerations. I'll make it count for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u76	A respectable president. It's always such an interesting discussion about practicality. We have had very various discussions here at the Parliament on the practicality of various projects in this area. These six cases definitely have a legal advantage. We've been given reviews, and it is considered in terms of a greater part of the work in the cooperative setting that, in the final analysis, is typically 20 to 30% more expensive. In any case, this spreads relatively well across the country, on the other side of the South, and on the inhabitants of the country. I wondered, in the context of other issues that have been so much discussed with the practicality of how we as sources of financial resources can really put ourselves in this gear, and in this direction, we are cooperating with this work, this 203/430% more expensive than we can achieve by other means. At least we don't have in front of ourselves on this bill an explanation why the cooperation process in this project would be inexpensive to any other advantage we might have. I just wanted to think about it with a little bit of what it was. A senator how we are not able to get this option and as a means of financial access to the analysis that should be available if we are to make a good decision on how to handle public funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u77	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It's a pleasure to hear an interest. A senator says there is an analysis and plans in this matter. The interest was lower in events surrounding a recent city line talk. But that's different. I think it's part of the problem with these six projects that, in particular, three of them are just standard road projects that were best considered on the grounds that they were in a standard rhythm. But then there is a rule of order, so public financial law has limits for a person, as it is implemented today. Of course, part of that journey is that, I'm not going to say I'm going to get past that rule, but I'm going to adapt the financial outside to the sources or not sources in it. I think that in these three tasks, which are essentially just standard road construction projects, it is the introduction of a private person in a very comparable way that has been the case. The road is holding an invitation. Private workers offer and do the job. It sounds to me like there's been some way that she's been looking for a currency to be put under the head of a government fund in one way or another, not the private citizen who's doing it. So point 'em out. A councilman in 20 to 30% costs is in line with a completely different project, if I have understood it as well as with a discussion. Senator. I don't suppose I understood it the way he did, but if I understood it correctly, it's a completely different assignment than the traditional road project involved here. [[The president calls.]] Then there's the other three, and maybe I'll get to them in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u78	A respectable president. Hv. A senator may not remember how I stepped in on various reports and city cost analysiss in that discussion. True, they were ignored, but all good and blessed. This amount of cost is due to the fact that in cooperation with the private community, it is generally seen to meet risks. There are three different risks of what is being done, and he needs to include. to resist the risks of financing a project that has a completely different interest cost than the government would pay. This is part of the increased cost of private living and, of course, the cost to the users. There are other factors that make the costs of construction more important when a private person is responsible for such factors as funding. It is also different with a private citizen who just focuses on the currency, the profit only comes through the pay while the gain of public work comes through a particular social gain in the neighborhood. It would be possible to count a profit for the remuneration of the project as such. And it's only very interesting if government laws on public finances prevent economic activity from under the rule of debt. In one of his first reviews, financial advisers have specifically helped us to see that while the state's debt is more committed if the commitment is made to lucrative projects, the maintenance of the government can improve. Then the recovery will pay off debt, and after all, the risk level will actually be better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u79	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. I don't think there was any question in it but a general speculation. I'm going to respond to the question and say: I've criticized limitations that the public financial law has given rise to exploiting projects, e.g. In the road system. I think it is absolutely necessary that this point be reviewed in view of the fact that economic projects can be carried out in a conventional way through the road structure and the financing of transport programmes. Just so it's held in place. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear returned to the 2003-30% expense bonus on the private projects he referred to in his first opponent. If we continue to talk about the first three projects, these traditional roadside projects that are right here, the Axi, the Horny River, and the new bridge across the Fairy River, this theory in my mind does not mean that the risk of the private community in this context will be exactly the same as in a traditional road project. It's gonna be nothing but the construction part the private is holding. Funding, collecting if possible, outside the invitation; all of this will be at the hands of the Roadmaker. It's just a traditional Vega-made project. I've really been critical that these projects are in there, but they're allowed to fit in with that prince. And if there's a way to speed up a raise, that's all right. But there's something else put in, like something's being done these days. Then there's a different nature - President, I need only ten more seconds - when it comes, for example. I think a significant economic advantage could be an early opportunity for designers and private partners to seek the most practical solutions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It can bring up a great deal of savings, not just the cost of a fortune. A senator focuses on it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u80	Mr. President. We are here on a rather large matter involving a cooperation project on the road, which may be the first thing to take, or may have never been more urgent, for us here on a very large and profitable project to build up wood. Of course, it is old and new, and we know that transport has been neglected for a long time and that, of course, there are reasons. After the collapse, the policy of subtracting new and large transport maintenance projects was laid down, but at that time, the pressures of this same transport have increased in many ways, and the pressures have grown to a great degree that have become available to both the number of infrastructures that have, we can put it this way, to some extent pass away. Neither have we been able to do what we should to maintain. But we've only been applying the weather in that regard, and we're good at it. But now we're back on our one trip to economic hardship, and we need a job to do it. There are many things to do, and how important it is that we try to prepare for the better! This bill here deals with the only way that is capable of doing this. It's filming this so-called cooperation project, which has been abbreviated by three years of English, and I think it's a good idea to recall what it says. It explains well here in section 3.2 of the bill and, by permission of the President, it says here: ▪ The English term Public-Private Partnership (PPP) has been translated in several ways, such as the Council of Public-Private Partnership (PPP) in English, such as ◯East, cooperation projects, and financing. In short, cooperation can be illustrated by a private member taking on social building projects that have previously been particularly under government care. For transportation, this is more often seen than in the fact that the private citizen notices an invitation to design, finance, build, and operate monuments for a certain time for the government. The payments for the project can include user fees, payments in case of road repairs, shades, or fixed pay of state funds for contractors. It is not unusual for a private person to take some financial risk, whether of the funding itself and/or the failure of traffic forecasts that the agreement has to deal with. At the end of a contract, the government will take over the workers'operations, more often than not free of charge. And here's the end of a quote from the bill. But it's just really good to think about it. I think that often and often, although it may not be appropriate here in this fancy chamber, people may not always be aware of what is involved in such a project. This bill suggests that there are specific projects that should be addressed or may be used on the basis of this bill for law and thereby the law if they become reality and are given six specific tasks. First, ask yourself, " Is this really the right way to do this rather than to work at putting a general frame around such projects? Of course, the mention of the majority of the committee explains how the committee has handled the case and which guests she has received and discussed the viewpoints expressed by the managers in the case and are of various kinds. This can be seen in many ways. Some feel that this route is not usually to be carried out; it is to finance all such projects directly from a common fund; nor should it be to take on what some might call a sense of harmony with the personal enterprise of building up a common infrastructure of the nation. Still others want to go further, believing that this is a very suitable arrangement. And all of this is connected directly and indirectly because there is going to be considerable changes in driving, and then I am primarily referring to that, as everyone knows, that the vehicles driving along the roads, according to the transport processes we're talking about here -- these are all roads - have been changing rapidly in the past few years and will change even faster, i.e. the energy sources used by these vehicles. As we know, we have an taxation system based primarily on taxation, or much of it at least, the fuel used by the automobiles or vehicles. There is a big change here, and there is a need to deal with it in some way, and this is related. Why is this connected? Of course, this is because it is assumed that such tax payments can be collected, and it raises even more questions in determining how a system we will build up in order to tax round the country, and of course, we need to act on it sooner than later. Of course, we have experience that people have to pay for such workers, the Smokey Way in their time, and the Halfland tunnel that has recently ceased to collect dues. But I think what you can see is that it needs to be taken up for a full reexamination, and there I've been thinking a lot about whether or not it's the right to pick up aquifer, where all traffic is taxed everywhere especially by remunerations. Whether they live in urban areas or in rural areas, this is true whether they are new structures or old. However, for such a project to be carried out, very many factors need to be considered, i.e. Who shall be the foundation of the exchange. To some extent, it is possible to look to the fuel or energy source. And as noted earlier, the combination of road energy donors is changing rapidly. This may be related to the weight of the motor vehicles. The heavier the vehicles, the greater the stress they feel on the road system. So looking to it may not be unnatural. It can also be used to control traffic, i.e. have, in some cases, higher currency during periods of stress, so those who need to use the road system can avoid being at high - speed times and travel outside of rush hour. This can, for example, happen. refers to a variety of transports that could then be organized to use the road system during periods of less stress. This can also be used to control the pressures I came to bear. It may be very relevant to urban areas, to try to distribute traffic, including road transport. by means of these techniques, by being at the best of time in traffic, and by being less expensive at other times. This method is widely known. It's a very big project. Of course, it has to do with many practical things. The first question, of course, is how to monitor this round, since the basis is, of course, knowing where the vehicle is, at any time, which type is, how far it goes, etc. So it has to be possible to solve the issues of tracking each vehicle and where it is moving to achieve such a payoff. Of course, there are immediate thoughts about personal protection, i.e. that such a system could somehow keep this information in mind. How are we going to protect ourselves so that there is no danger that the information thus provided would be used for any purpose other than this, i.e. collect fees for the drive? There's some views up there. Some would say: Well, the best way to prevent information from being abused is not to gather it. It's certainly a point of view, but then you can wonder again what interests are in the opposite direction. Is there any way, then, to ensure that this information is not abused, that is not a basis for one's falling into temptation? We can set up an example in which crime has taken place somewhere and some people are suspected of being involved, but it has to do with knowing where the person was at any given time. Is it not a little temptation, e.g. for the Rapporteur or police, to request information from such a database as to where a particular car was traveling at any given time? I think there's some way we can sort this out. I remember reading about Norwegian ideas that have been just considering taking into account their road systems and how it would be best handled and have even done so. Such a systemic approach to taxing the whole road system or posting applications to the whole road system. There I don't think I'm saying that the authorities, or those with machines, believe that they have done so in agreement with the Norwegian Surgeon authorities and feel that there is a way to prevent such abuse. I think this is definitely the future, although it may not be the main ingredient of this bill, but it has a lot to do with this, because this is a currency, and the currency is based on the fact that the person who drives a particular road mat or crosses a particular bridge, is paid, and is doing it on the basis of knowing the location of a vehicle that crosses the bridge or a certain road rat. I'm not in trouble myself. The Environment and Transport Committee, however, has been developed by a representative. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson It is at the majority of the opinion available here, and it has a warning written in the committee's opinion, and I think it is very helpful to review only the fine advance. It says, by permission of the president: A major factor in creating a framework for the cohesion of transport projects is that it is important to create a framework. However, in view of the fact that the bill allows only a contract to be made for six designated cooperation projects, the bill seems to be rather unproved. 2 mg. 1st par. The bill, which was selected on the basis of government priorities. In view of the situation in the Covid-19 pandemic, priorities are important because projects meet costs and benefits to offset the recession in the economy, with increasing public activity. There is a different method of priorities that has been used so far, but economic interests should be focused primarily on priorities, i.e. putting first a project that has been shown to result in more improvement over longer periods than costs. A representative of the project warns that the bill is the limit of the road process's clearance to negotiate with a private member of the cooperation project with the projects specifically listed in the bill. Successfulness, with regard to the economic status of the nation and the need for profitable projects, would allow road development to assess priorities objectively and professionally. A representative of the project thinks that the purpose of the bill is good rather than that it would be better to set a complete framework for cooperation projects that could be started without tatting and extensive restrictions. And here comes a quote in advance of what. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson I think this model is saying a lot, and he comes in to some of the things I did to talk about earlier in my speech. But I also wanted to draw a little attention to the fact that here we are talking about big, massive projects that need to be prepared well, and people need to know why they're attacked, what and what results are intended to achieve, and whether they are necessarily going the best way out of it. Well, that's what happens. A senator present suggested a proposal for action that was adopted two years ago that deals with how to prepare such projects to ensure their quality, efficiency, and efficiency throughout their lifetime. Sadly, the content of the Parliamentary arrangement has not been established despite its approval of a rumor on the back of the ground. A General Assembly with the help of a representative of most members of the council. [[The president calls.]] But I think it would be wise to take up a discussion about her subject and implement it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u81	A respectable president. All I want to do is discuss the warning given by a representative on this case and on the priorities of the project, both because of the situation and really because of the factors involved in the cost of benefits. Maybe it's at a slightly higher level with regard to a certain political bitch at Reunion on a cooperative project in its nature. I can, for example. They are well - thought - out, depending on the fact that a cooperative work has some place in their home as part of government projects. But I have been describing the priorities that must be set before a cooperative decision can be made. We are now paying off on the state funds of all these taxes in order to finance joint transport. In this regard, we try to be reasonable in setting priorities for our assignments. If we make it a matter of cooperation to one of the projects we consider to be at the top of a fair list, it is, in fact, very unfair to those in that area, that they have to pay double, on the other hand, for getting the case high on a fair list, perhaps waiting on it for a long time to speed up their work in a different way, and then when the project is done that they are working together, they have to wait, have to take the cost of waiting, and they may have to pay extra. [[The president calls.]] I'm just wondering, you know, these are the principles of cooperation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u82	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. As noted, the bill is taken out of a particular project, and we in the context feel that it does not necessarily make sense to do so. Perhaps one of them is not quite the typical project involved. I think that's in the case of the Vega type. They count, for example. to the first three projects in the bill, i.e. the north-east Selphoss and the bridge over Alpha River, the corner-leaf road, and the Axes Road are not typical of PPP projects. To that end, I expect to do it. A senator, e.g. To refer to such projects, which may be more traditional. I don't know, but we'll see. They are taken out of the way, and they say, " Wait, aren't these regular work assignments? ' But in general, it's a question of why. A senator may be unfair about such a project as this, so it may be. I think the best answer to that is to look at all these projects based on the basis of the benefits, the profit that comes from them, and people see it. Then, of course, there is something to be done on it: it's the best project you can do, it's second best, etc. There's some kind of food for the situation, like what? A senator was saying. Then you can say: " This is the order, and we're going to take assignment three, eight, and ten, and we're going to use it through this, possibly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u83	A respectable president. I'm just trying to explain. Project three is, for example. Sort of next time. It is not an assignment to take out the reasonable order that we have set up for a transport plan. It is a cooperative project, but it is actually a project that should have been set up in the list of public transport projects. This means that somewhere down on the list is a transport project. Well, it's a question of fairness, then. Why are people in the area that cooperates with the work of paying more than the work involved in the transport program? I understand, however, very well, if it is taken quite far down the list, if this is a project that may not come in the next ten years or something like that. However, this project is better decided, much less advert than those at the top of the list, of course. In such a situation, we actually see lost benefits in those ten years. If the project had taken place right away, it would be the benefit during those ten years that we would receive as soon as the project was completed. This has led us to a difference between the failure and the extra cost of taking up an average PPP of 20 to 30%. If the benefits are greater than the extra cost of cooperating, both parties will make better. Even if the cost of waiting is higher, the partner is able to make the effort not to wait. In such situations, we should look at cooperation rather than, as the Ministry puts it: This is a proper assignment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u84	Mr. President. I thought why. A senator comes in answer to views that are perfectly valid in my opinion. The route that has gone in the bill is that they go to the projects that are in some sense the easiest, the readyest, and where, perhaps, like the dog. In this regard, a senator will take the initiative to install a tax system gate in a personal or figurative way in order to earn money from the project. I think this will eventually roll over some kind of interest in something like what happened. The senator was describing. I don't think we're going through a way that all transport projects in this country end up in some kind of co-work. I don't think anyone's gonna think of it. Of course, it is the first obligation of the government or the State to make sure that transportation is acceptable or good, perhaps I should say, everywhere. It's our first duty. [[Up front.]] PPP may be a tool to speed up the need for this responsibility. In that case, it may very well be considered that the projects listed on the bottom of the list of initiatives, based on all benefits and practicalities, are critical and important to those involved. [[The president calls.]] In that case, they could take up the interests of the State in order to carry out their duties and those who receive their benefits and thus even be willing to pay for it, just to get it years earlier. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u85	A respectable president. I just wanted to talk about something that came out of my mind earlier, just to keep things more clear in the discussion, i.e. how we conduct or plan for transportation in the country. I talked there about a shiny figure of transportation. How would the country, organized transportation in the country, organized outlets, airplanes and public transportation, the road system for the family car and all of this, what would be the best version of such a system, with all the tunnels and everything? What would it be like if all participants and rural groups came together and set up their finest transport system for each area, and that would be a puzzled together in this shiny circle? What would she look like? That glow should be our goal. Once we have that goal in mind, it is much easier to move from the present situation, the present situation, to the shiny picture. We can easily see what changes are needed according to the current situation and what position we want to have. What are the easiest changes from the present position to the best position? In that way, we could work very quickly and in a way that is, to get at least the clear picture as we want it to be. Of course, time and correction change to some extent. We're following a target. I often talk about the perfect community or an outlic, as it is often called. We'll never catch her. This so-called "utopia" is a portable target because if we ever get there, we realize that we want something more and something else. There's been a new opium that we want to replace. Current society would be, for example, I'm sure it's someone who lived here 500 years ago. No doubt they could not even imagine the term "utopia, " could not have it as a goal because so many other things changed along the way. They may have had an outlet or been caught, and we simply missed it. But if we don't have this goal, all of our plans are much less certain. This is highly reflected in a study of road types in Iceland that I sent to the secretary of transportation. It was simply a matter of question about all the roads we have in this fine and long road record, i.e. how's the road between position A and B? You see, it says in a road file what it's like to be between A and B, but it doesn't say how it works between A and B. It was enormously important to me, so I decided to ask the Department of Transport or the Road Building. She was bound to know how a road had been laid because, of course, it is usually the road construction. The answer was: We don't know. One of the reasons why I asked this question and that this caught my attention was that when certain transport issues were discussed in a financial committee, representatives of the Commission came to a meeting of the Committee and covered the roads, it was around Chets Forests, etc., and how little money was needed to update a certain section of the procedure because it was of the kind that would have to carry them round. But this was the preferred type. The real species, however, was worse, so building that way required much more than was expected by certain critics. And then I ask, "Wait, I'm sorry, what is it like in general?" The administration representative guessed - this is said without my responsibility or the relevant party - but our best expertise was that of about Half the road to the road file would not be the preferred type. In fact, we have no idea what half of our options are. Those living in the areas certainly know this, not a problem. They know exactly which roads to build, etc. Therefore, it would be a very good way for the Parliament to work more through national transport programmes, where each part of the country has knowledge of the territory and knows exactly exactly where to do a particular maintenance project and an obvious building project. Rather, we should finance the ideas that the parts of the country have, which, of course, are in the direction of a shiny picture for each part of the country. But there's a link between the roadmaking and things. Then there are huge projects that humans may not have total resources to help with. They may have to work on other grounds. But by having that shiny image that I'm talking about, we can make a plan of how we're working toward it. Efforts being carried out in a transport program for e.g. Busting schedule is very clever. They are definitely in the direction of a shiny picture, but they do not reach quite far enough. The protocol is only 15 years old, a tunnel plan would probably be similar. But this is definitely the way it is. Still, there is no ultimate limit after all. In fact, during transport and transport programs, we are working according to our best guess. I'll give you my word that the guess is pretty good. However, it is relatively inaccurate, and the faults of the people depend on, at least the matter we are talking about here, that the projects selected for cooperation are not caused by the benefits they can mean for the land and nation, with regard to the increased taxation and the increased costs of such projects. There will be an increase in costs for people in these areas rather than elsewhere. It is only reasonable that these types of projects are generally back in their priorities that social benefits will be greater than the increase in the cost of waiting and the funding needed for personal and financial gain. As necessary as these roads are, they are just taken into this decision - making process, not in a process where we see the benefits and costs and take note of the reasonable arguments we would need to consider when we make a complete priority list of transport projects to achieve our goal, the glag picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u86	Mr. President. I bring here the majority of the welfare committee's opinion of the medical bill. As the United Nations knows, this case has been for the treatment of the committee for a long time, and it has been contacted by a number of visitors and many reports. I'm not going to do that in my case specifically but refer to the committee's opinion in this regard. The bill suggests a new drug law to be used. The objective is to ensure adequate supply of necessary medicinal products on the basis of natural competition in accordance with the European Economic Area or National Focal Relations Convention of Europe and to take into account that drug distribution is part of a healthcare professional and that persons should work with other health care providers or in accordance with official health objectives at a time and ensure that the quality and safety of the medicinal product, medical services, as well as knowledge of the use of medicinal products, minimise their use of the medicinal product, should be minimised and costs of medicinal products. Perhaps in the beginning, it is proper to say that many people have come up with the case, and I would like to say that. A welfare committee has contributed well, the matter was done well inside, and much discussion was done. As is indicated by the big, complex issues involved, there were a number of opinions on the committee's study that are torn in the committee's opinion. I will develop to follow the opinion as it happens, but I may not read up every detail there is. I'd rather refer them to my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u87	It is fine to refrain from reading something.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u88	I am grateful for the guidance of a president. The first mention is Article 35. the permission of veterinary surgeons to sell the intended veterinary medicinal product to animals. As the committees and the General Assembly know, it has been for a long time that veterinary surgeons have had permission to sell drugs and deliver drugs, and often the most practical way they can do their jobs. However, the discussion on the committee noted that it might be reasonable to conclude that this document was somehow limited. In fact, this is in the bill, considering how these matters are being handled today, as well as the legal rights of the minister can put it in their hands. The majority, however, insist that veterinary surgeons are in a fashion not to be expected to run a drug trade, but much more so that they are ready to do their job and actions. Thus, it may be normal for veterinary surgeons who operate in the more scattered regions to have a more extensive management of drugs than those in the most urban area. The Committee gave much discussion about the provision of existing pharmaceutical songs and the bill for two pharmacists at a pharmacy. The opposite viewpoint was drawn there, on the other hand, that this should be an absolutely undisputed duty and the view that more is to be left out than is done in the bill. It is proper to note that in the bill, this is a condition, although remaining in place, a pretty clear space. As the situation is, you may not make comments to that, and have not been made, e.g. in all cases, there are two local pharmacists who need to be allowed or legitimate prematures and specifically referred to the restricted access rights of the law to form a drug trade in the country and in smaller places. These paroles and sources remain in the law and do not change. The majority of the concerned figures are that the implementation of these measures has been successful and that the EMA will be expected to show understanding that at certain sites or in designated circumstances, it may be burdensome for a pharmacy to always work at two pharmacists. The duties of health care providers were discussed in the 63th chapter. In review for members of Congress, this obligation is to report side effects. This is something that has been in the long term by law in Iceland, and it has sometimes been complained that doctors and other health care professionals who require it are insufficient to report side effects. The directive, as it is stated in the bill, you might expect, if you read it completely without complete vision, to report all the smallest cases and may have no clinical judgment on what would be normal to report and what would not be. However, in all of this, the majority of the items do not suggest a change in the provision but a responsibility and the clinical assessment of adverse reactions must always be based on the individual situation and the health care professional's assessment of the importance of adverse reactions in each case. The more part shows that at any given time, each institution needs to evaluate whether the scope of such reports is such that special measures need to be taken in consideration for human development. At 82rd. will be discussed on the central database of medicine cards and the evaluation of the effects on personal protection, the database being the responsibility of the surgeon's office. A review of the P.R. says that a responsible candidate needs to be evaluated for the effects of planned follow-up measures on the protection of personal information before starting the process according to the guidelines given in Article 35. The EU Regulation on the protection of individuals in the processing of personal data and the free sharing of such information and the breakdown of Directive 95/46/EC, the general protection principle. Based on the 3 mg. Thirty-five. The Regulation shall require the responsible for assessing the effects of planned actions on the protection of personal information in the face of the extensive process of sensitive personal information. Additional information includes the following: information on the use of medicinal products, as per Figure 3 of the population. law on personal protection and the processing of personal information. The majority of the data show that evaluation of the effect on personal protection has not been made because of the above laws. It is necessary to evaluate the effects of planned personality protection implementation prior to the introduction of personal information in a central Product Card database. Therefore, direct the majority to the surgeon general's office to assess the effect of planned personality protection measures prior to implementing the directive on January 1, 2021. At the same time, the majority of the objects are directed to the Ministry to determine whether such evaluations would warrant a change of the bill at the Fall Council of 2020. In addition, the more part points out that in comments to the 12th paragraph of Article 3. the product database suggests that the database is designed to improve safety in prescribing physicians. The majority of the rights to the database are intended to improve safety in all healthcare professionals authorised to prescribe medicinal products. This brings us to the chapter on the changes made by the majority and makes them quite a few. The committee discussed a considerable amount of pharmacological management as attributed to the committee's opinion. The term is even. defined in a paper with a panel resolution of pharmaceuticalism to 2022, Congress resolution No. 17/146, which says: The use of medical care includes the cooperation of physicians and pharmacists with the improved medical management of patients. There may be various pharmacological management and may include in that the pharmacist reviews the dose, side effects, interactions, and counselling about the choice of the concomitant medicinal product. The reviews gave some suggestions on how to make this choice. The majority of them believe that it is important to establish the general definition of pharmacology accepted by the European competent authority's field and suggest that the definition of the term in accordance with the above mentioned is added to a word explanation. This is as mentioned by the Committee's transitional proposal, an individual pharmacist's service with the goal of maximising the success of a patient's chemotherapy and thereby improving the quality of life. It means that the pharmacist will define the purpose of medicine and drug use for the patient and will look for the best means to achieve them in cooperation with the patient and other health care professionals. So this is the final proposal made by the Commission on this law. In 31st. is referred to as the import of medicines for use by individuals. The review of the Toll manager showed that in this bill a clearer step is needed for the import of a product for its own use. The majority suggest a change in the requirement of a minister to set up such regulations. Sales of drugs in retails were very busy at the Committee, and there they pulled some views, but sales at public sales have not been much of a part of Iceland. At present, it is only nicotine and fluoride - based products that are for sale in commercial stores. As I said, there were some opinions. However, the majority of it is that it is difficult to see that medicinal products are like other consumer products and that it is important that the general rule of handling medicinal products is within pharmaceutical stores where instruction and counselling are available. However, the majority agree that it may be necessary to have access there, especially at non-medical sites. The majority suggest that a change in the terms of the EMA shall be permitted to provide an exception from the principle 1 mg. Thirty-three. in non-preservation areas. The majority also reiterate the importance of being interpreted narrowly and that the output of the criteria for such a warrant should be clear. In the context of the rest of the provision, the objective is to respond to the potential situation in the wider areas of the country, not to be authorized to operate within the urban population. Then we're up to 36th. Marketing Authorisation Holder (CHAT) There we may come back to similar viewpoints, at least in some respects, and we talked about earlier with vets. You cannot assume that there will be a pharmacist in the clinic in the sense that there is a general rule. However, it may have to be a law of notation, as it has been in the law of that law. However, there is reason to interpret the contents of the narrow and large part, making the adjustment proposed at the age of 36. where it's tight, but in such a way that it's not allowed to be any different than at least you have been trying to negotiate with someone who has a prescription or a pharmacy to care for this service in the area of your healthcare centre. In the 38th. will be discussed with the manufacture of prescriptions in a pharmacy. There was a view that it might be perplexing a small amount, at least so that the companies who are producing prescriptions outside the pharmacy would not need to live with them on the authority to operate them. The more part makes the change, and this is to my knowledge of a very important change because it guarantees it, at least to a degree, that this activity will be in the country. It may simply be a security ground for such production in Iceland, since it is not always given that we can make it abroad. There may be natural disasters, volcanic eruptions, and other forms of activity. Therefore, it is important that these regulations be clear in this regard so that such companies can continue working without ever being subject to any kind of extradification. 43rd. will be discussed in medical or healthcare professionals. It is in many ways similar to the provision of the pharmacy at the clinic, although, of course, it is necessary, especially with certain rare sensitive medicines, which may be primarily used in hospitals, that it is possible to be administered at hospitals. However, the committee would prefer that we are not talking about being a complete pharmacy or being thrown in a healthcare facility but rather that this applies to the cases where this removal is necessary because of the nature of the medicinal product or the underlying activity. Then we're up to 44. which perhaps is the article that has led to the most discussion, i.e. order the Committee for Medicinal Products of the Land Hospital. The Committee gave a very objective view that the bill, as it was written, really assumed that the Land Hospital Drug Committee was absolutely complete, I think it may be safe to say, to executive custody and director, in effect, to deny the decisions made by the Committee. This did not seem to be a suitable tool for both committees and for many sources, so efforts were made to find other landings. This law includes in order for the committee to publish a subsequent opinion in another Senate document. To make a long story short, the Commission makes significant changes in 44th. I will propose a vote, so that the committees are informed about this, that the b-joints of the adjustment proposal in the leading review will be called back, while other adjustments will be made in terms of a small amount of other management arrangements. It's coming even. From a point of view, the Committee is the Committee for Medicinal Products for the whole country and the 3rd district. We'll make some adjustments in that state, i.e. that the committee may still be called, as indicated in this adjustment made by the minister. There will be no separation of the source of the commission. Rather, it will be the order of the minister. In accordance with the nature of the case, the minister will consult his subgroups with the committee appointing, with information on where to look most closely for the experts who knew how to manage this. But here we are talking about a committee for the whole country. For example, it may be a matter of concern that some medical facility other than the Landspians or some other government agency or other agency can perform a project that the Committee is due to perform. I reiterate what I said earlier that, of course, it is normal for a minister to consult his largest institution and the institution that over 90% of the decisions really apply. We will make a suggestion for this change and call it back. However, it is reasonable to assume that the director may have a refusal or to dismiss the committee. The law's will is that the committee should be first and last on professional grounds and should be subject to a minor impact on its activities. About the 79th. held the opinion that more than just doctors, lawyers, pharmacists, nurses and dentists should have access to a medical history and database, i.e. Doctors. The committee makes a adjustment proposal. For access to product information back to time, which is also a change in 79. c., developed a view that it may be too short to plan to go back five years with a history of drugs, especially with complex comorbidities, complex diseases, or patients with multiple diseases and chronic diseases. Changes are made in this respect. In the coverage of the 86th paragraph. The bill shows that in the review of the Toll manager, it may be wise to clear the product information from the customs authorities in this article. The local competent authority would be allowed to inform the European Medicines Agency when there is a suspicion of violateing the requirements for the import of the medicinal product for its own use. The majority agree with that view and suggest that such a warrant be added to the 86th par. The medication database was discussed with nurses and midwives. This warrant was published last year, i.e. that medicines may be delivered by midwives and nurses. This will be an alteration in relevant articles, i.e. On database access. With law No. 21/2020 changes are made in various laws due to government cooperation in the European Economic Area on consumer protection. Actually, this bill is a fairly detailed adjustment in this regard. They are presented in a special file proposal that I'm not going to do any further. It's already discussed here at the council, but it needs to be included in this law column for harmony. The bill was sent to a routine technical reporting process for the EFTA monitoring centre and the European Commission. Comments were received after the decision was made to the Council. In consultation with the Ministry, the majority of the items produce changes according to the comments received. Finally, the majority contributes to a number of technological changes that are not meant to have material influence. From the above, the more part contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson and Halldóra Mogensen sign in advance, but under references to the writings of Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánsdótir Rafney Magnúsdóttir Vilhjálmur and Árnason Arnasson, as well as the members of the council I mentioned earlier on notice. I want to thank you at the end. The head of the committee and the head of the Committee for the cooperation of the Commission in finishing this matter. I don't think there's any doubt that the conditions of this spring council have been very special. A travel committee has read a lot about cases that have come out of a pandemic crown. In accordance with the nature of the case, some of the work of the Committee has disturbed me, but I am very grateful to her for her having cooperated to complete this case until 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the review of the committee, which I'm on for granted because I couldn't take it away after paying it votes on a committee. I will find it better in my speech afterward. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in charge of a surgeon's office. It contains numerous comments that have not been taken into consideration. One of the main roles of the office is to monitor and monitor and promote the use of medicinal products in the country, as the law on surgeons and public health says. My question leads to 33. c., a source of medicinal product goods for sale and dispensing of medicinal products directly from the Marketing Authorisation Holder or public health centre. It is new and not implemented, as the review shows, whether in a bill or in a committee party. The surgeon general says it is important not to install a special system outside the general prescribing and relief system illogical or unexcited. Then, the surgeon general's office points to the decision of 1st. 51st par. is inconsistent with the arrangement 33rd. where certain medicinal products are expected to be sold and dispensed, as stated at 1 Corinthians 15: 33. mg, with permission of the president: only prescribers can be delivered to prescription medicines for prescribing prescriptions in a pharmacy. So I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament will be able to explain to the general and public how the committee envisions this interaction to 33 C.E. 2nd and 1 mg, respectively. 51st par. On the other hand, walk up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. The answer is to state my frustration by saying that the senator, who I believe, has contributed well in the progress of the matter, is almost stating here that she is no longer in agreement with the matter or that she does not want to be on the committee's opinion. So be it. The Senator specifically asks of the surgeon general's review, and I went, like the senator, over the land physician's opinion. I did not consider this point to be a reason to change or make a suggestion to make a change in this arrangement, in accordance with the surgeon's review. Perhaps I do not have strong opinions about the exactness of this comment. But as I say, I thought at least not at the end of the case that there is reason to change the bill in accordance with this view of the office.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u91	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answer to the answer was honest, but it was clear that I brought the senator into a rather fine manner with this question because I know that, unfortunately, there was no time to work this case. Here we are talking about an overall review of pharmaceutical law, which is naturally no small thing, but I'm going to talk about it in my speech. An aluminium study discusses the design of the pharmacy and the conditions being set in place usually include two pharmacists working at the pharmacy. The committee lists the majority of them as required, but it does not require that they always serve at the same time, e.g. if someone else is erupting because of the same meal period. Today, pharmacists have the only health - care profession to agree that there must be two at all times. Nowhere else in the North countries are such laws found. I wonder what. A senator sees the need to close the pharmacy if her pharmacist tells you suddenly that you have a fallout, if your pharmacist needs to see your doctor, if your pharmacist needs to break up because of a sick child or because of his own illness.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u92	Mr. President. As the U.S. Congress knows, sales are widely operated, and particularly the branch offices of the pharmacy, where employees are assigned by the pharmacist. It's unusual in Iceland. It's very familiar. However, the pharmacist is responsible for the job of the employee who delivers or dispenses the medicines. This bill does not anticipate any changes in this situation. As the committee's opinion of two pharmacists shows, only the legal authority is being cleared. It is not considered to be a prerequisite for intensifying or emptying the regulations listed in the bill. [[The president calls.]] The results of the Commission are as stated in the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For a thorough review, Þór Gunnarsson, a member of the committee, did not agree. Drug laws are not baseless, nor are they highly valued. Drugs are wonderful and life - saving, and the ability to use them is important. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will see if he believes that this bill is ready to be covered by members of the Parliament's Hall and will confirm whether this is going to be a good law. Then, of course, I have the nature of the case, as a local senator is concerned about the bioavailability of the population in the country. I had hoped that by means of new laws, people in rural areas and less urban areas would be secured in some way by law. That's what it's all about. A senator that is not needed? Is it acceptable that we are somewhere in parentheses in the law, in some subsection, or in any of the terms of drug delivery? Of course, we know that these drug trades are entirely exceptions to health care programs. There are drug sales in many parts of the country, but there are the same exceptions as that of working pharmacists, and it's probably just an almost stranger.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u94	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir He's the Guðjón of the Brjánsson Brunsson for the counter-sponsored. The Senator asks: Is this a careful bill and a careful work? I think it's safe to say yes. As the senator knows, this is not the first attempt to get prescriptions through this council. The matter has taken several rounds in the Ministry and here at the council. Hv. The welfare committee has had the case for the treatment since November 28th. However, as I had within the past, a small bar of the pandemic crown virus is being taken into account, i.e. ... withthecounselon at work. Nevertheless, I think that work is good, and I should not worry about being taken into consideration the views that need to be taken into consideration. Regarding the bioavailability in the region, we are the driving force. A senator completely agreed that it is very important that it exists. Within the bill, there was a provision that has been taken, sometimes called the Burgundy Earth, i.e. that in non-medicinal sites where a drug facility has not been held, it is authorised to sell free products according to the list established by the National Competent Authority. I think this is very important. In terms of what I think the senator was asking, is there any professionally available to deliver medication without a pharmacist being present, the senator knows as well as I do that still there is the responsibility of the pharmacist for those employees. [[The president calls.]] It's not as perfect an payment, but I think it's been so good so far, and it's probably going to continue. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson for the counter-sponsore. That's a lot of opinions. Many comments have been made on this bill, and it has not been on the committee for long since the start of the Covid-19 cycle. I'd like to mention this with a pharmaceutical committee and her work. In view of the fact that we may not have active pharmacists at every health facility in the country, it came up to comment from the Hospital in Akureyri on the consultation of the Committee with other health institutions. that there is a need to round the laws in the bill that a committee should agree and cooperate with all public health institutions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u96	Mr. President. With regard to the Committees, let's say, i.e. Both the National Hospital and the Development Centers of the Medical Centers, are to provide advice for all health institutions in the country. The National Hospital Committee will make decisions that will apply to every health facility in the country. Because of this, it is not reasonable for the director of the Land Hospital to ship the committee. Rather, it will be done more on the hands of a health minister. As I mentioned in my talk earlier, it may become the selection of ministers that representatives or staff of other health institutions, but the Hospital may attend this committee depending on the minister's qualifications at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u97	V.E.G. President. I listened to a talk. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór, son of Gunnarsson, and I acted as he refused to propose a change to the Governing Body Hospital. I wanted to hear more about this. I myself have a new proposal that deals with this very same medical committee, where I want to turn it into a medical committee of hospitals so that it will take better care of hospitals and clinics all over the country. I think it's kind of special now. There has been great criticism of this situation, such as why. A senator came in handy. Therefore, I would like to know if this suggestion is smart, so that we, the rest of the committees, can understand it properly and then if there was nothing inside the picture of just taking my new suggestions and accepting it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u98	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists the question. She's gonna ask the NTSB. As the senator is aware, the Committee discussed many comments on the Governing Body. Perhaps the largest concern exists because men may have pointed to the possibility that the director of the health care facility, in this case the Land Hospital, might actually be participating in the professional decisions made by the Committee. They were concerned about this, and this was discussed in the Committee. Hence, the current changes are made. Then, concerning what the senator specifically asked about, if there were subjects to replace it with just the changing proposal, it's not exactly the same, as one says, and the adjustment proposal I intend to make. In fact, the suggestion is primarily that there will be no divorce. Rather, it will be primarily in it that a minister will appoint the Committee for Medicinal Products. As I mentioned in my speech earlier, a person, as it were, must assume that a minister will consult the professional and the institutions that are at stake. This is for example, it may not be possible that, for example. A person with expertise in the ethics section is always the staff of the Land Hospital. [[The president calls.]] He could be somewhere else in the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u99	V.E.G. President. No, it may just be a matter of fact, that not necessarily everyone is a staff of Land Hospitals. What I'm also thinking is that there are many comments and a lot of criticism of this. We're taking these laws for a full review and we can't help it. I hope they're gonna do it for a lot of years. That's why I feel really bad if we're going to tie up this law on Article 44. we've got one institution more than any other. That is why I again ask: Is it not true that I am making my move?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u100	Mr. President. The National Hospital Committee will serve as a medical committee for all health institutions in the country. For me at least, I believe that there is no reason to believe that it will only protect the interests of all the institutions and that it will ensure that the decisions it makes will be used to fit the decisions it makes. However, it is most natural that she is placed at the Land Hospital. Likely, more than 90% of the decisions made by this committee apply to the Land Hospital. That's why it's most natural to be saved there. However, as the senator mentioned, there may well be other sources of expertise, or the knowledge that a minister believes needs in the committee, which is why we are making this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u101	Mr. President. I'm not going to be very long here, and I'm going to keep it. I'm an emissary officer, but I didn't approve of this, even though I'm pleased that the pharmaceutical law has been taken for a complete inspection. I agree with it. The author of the large part of the trial entered into a cross line on the case. However, my opinion is that the treatment of the case would have required the benefit of the doubt, that it would not be such a danger to store the matter until the fall, and that it would be a rather careful discussion of the issues best handled. There are two articles I would like to discuss here. I have a motion to make with one of them, but not with the other. But there are a few articles that I think about, including. 44. Gr., the Committee for Medicine Hospital. We have a bill that suggests a new drug law. The objective, on the other hand, is to ensure that the country needs medication, good drugs, the latest products as possible, while at the same time providing the most cost to the population because it is a large percentage of the resources available in the health system. Something's been going on, I feel like reading the bill, that this latter part, i.e. The money share is predominant, and it has also been evaluated in reviews. Then there is the conflict over the National Hospital Drug Control Committee, perhaps showing its photo as the professional and financial responsibilities of those making decisions are really under way. The way that has begun is to increase the administrative role of the Land Hospital considerably, reasoning that it is the greatest knowledge and knowledge. This may be what it's all about, and it's basic that I think we need a more mature discussion because we're running ahead of time, and there's a change in the motion because when something's changed, new comments come up. It was shown in the matter of what. An prominent historian, Ólafur Þór Gunns' Gunnarsson, earlier on the change that this was a positive change in the land hospital's opinion compared with what was, because the Land Hospital made comments to a previous change, he would have wanted the bill to remain unchanged, which had changed there before. But making the hospital acquiesce means that others do not agree. And there we are. Perhaps this is a valid surrender, that we will not achieve this matter, and how we decide to take medication so that everyone will be happy. But I don't like the feeling that everyone doesn't understand exactly where we're talking about this and how, in addition to the fact that not everyone is happy. These are the notes I make with the strategist at 44. and the main reason I don't agree with the bill because I don't think we're ready. I would so much like for us to come together on this matter and be able to finish it. I'm sure we'd have made it so we'd have been allowed to use the two months better as they went into the ocean. I feel that we had to develop this case better. What I want to do here at the same time is to discuss the adjustments I have made in my case. She'll be at 33. ... whichisselling medicine in a small sale. There's a suggestion that the Agency will be allowed to provide permission for the sale of certain products in a public store. Period. The Marketing Authorisation Holder should provide a list of the products, strengths and packages that are authorised to sell according to the regulations of this paragraph. This accords with the existing article on the bill. The change is, however, that this is not about the EMA access rights in those situations where medicinal product cannot be accessed differently, i.e. in areas where there is a pharmacy or clinic, as shown in the case of the majority of the sector, it is simply that the National Competent Authority has this authority. It can control it so that, for example, the drug used in the matter is not addictive and can control its strengths and other medications. What gets in my chest, except for the fateism that rages, is how easily the greater part will decide to hold freedom in this way simply by not seeing reasons to take the fight and to argue why it is such a thing. I'm a representative of a party that thinks that freedom should be the focus of clearance, that a person's freedom to make decisions about his own life is what we're going to do, and for the time we keep that freedom, it's the duty of those who intend to interfere, to back up their case. It is not the one who asks for freedom that needs to be reasoned with why he wants freedom. It is the one who maintains freedom that needs to back it up. Sales of free-selling drugs are free someplace else in the North. I refer to the review of the Contestance Commission to a drug song that is not said to be in the members of the committee's section. By permission of the President: The best comments made by the monitoring for the bill are a shortage of arrangements that will facilitate the possibility of selling free products in commercial trades and the lack of business practices due to their products. I didn't go that far into my transition. On the contrary, the review of the Contestant Commission says: In this context, we should look to neighboring countries for help. A recent study of Swedish competitive authorities since 2017, on the effect of sources to sell free-selling drugs in 2009, suggests that customers of Internet pharmacies and trade sites other than pharmacists had a lower rate of pharmaceuticals, compared to pharmacists. The fact that salesmen other than pharmacists have begun selling free-selling drugs has also resulted in greater choice of low-cost drugs. However, changes have not affected the price of commercial products in pharmacists. It's pretty peculiar for a committee party at a bill where equal emphasis is actually placed on the financial part, that this is not to be considered, at least not so that there is reason to argue. It may well be that they don't exist, and then it's also very interesting. So I miss it. Of course, you have heard discarded phrases during the discussion, such as: You can mishandling yourself with drug abuse. - Of course it's possible, and it's also possible even if they're bought in the pharmacy. There's nothing more complicated than that. I don't particularly remember going to the pharmacy and buying my farm and hearing any special warnings from employees there, even though there are pharmacists. We are primarily responsible for ourselves. This is not one of the more dangerous things to do, trusting citizens in buying free-selling drugs in nonprescription public stores. I'm right in the new proposal I propose is the source of the Agency's clearance to grant permission, it's not mandatory, and it can make certain conditions. I don't think it's worth one Mass to go through this and discuss the evidence with and against the other than the fact that it's not worth answering. I was going to keep my promise to be brief, but I'm close to cheating there. I'm still going to add one thing. I have full understanding and sympathy for people who live in rural areas. I'm all for it. But I put a question mark on it when it's being held free by the public in this country because it's for the good of the people, because the state knows better, because the more part here knows better because people are going to get hurt. Then I find it a little strange that this exit is being provided in the rural area. Is it not dangerous for people there to buy free drugs without being equipped by experts at special pharmaceutical stores? You see, I think it smells like something other than concern for the health of the people of the country. It's pure, smart, premeditated, and we're supposed to be longer in this. We have at least a few minutes. to think about it, discuss it, and find reasons if we are going to restrict the freedom of the people of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u102	Mr. President. We're here on a full re-examination of prescriptions. Then you'd better get a nice boob in a pont. Although we are here for the final days of this spring council, it is such a matter that it cannot be avoided without being concerned. First, I want to state to the council Hall that the Committee was given time over an hour, possibly an hour and a half, to discuss this extensive case, a complete review of drug songs, so that we could review the committee's titles. Is good, and I want to thank you. A prominent historian for giving the committee time to discuss that, though. After that review and the discussion, as I made a note of what was agreed on in the indications you brought and what you didn't, I made a decision to be on the case in advance. My job was to focus on how irresponsible it is for governments to drive contrary to a complete review of pharmaceutical law, which is an extremely important code and must not be handled lightly. After seeing a change proposal and an appeal after this meeting, I realized that despite being told, all the points, though spoken of as positive, were not taken into account. The committee was also making significant comments after the day's search was made. That's when I realized that it was clear that I had to take my mind off something I thought, not on notice. I'm sorry it was too late, but I have to declare it here that I can't support this. I can't support this whole thing. Pharmacodynamic legislation contains various procedures and sources. They provide government sources that can have significant consequences for people, i.e. if people violate the rules of the law. In such a case, you can clearly see what happens if the law is blurred, if the law contradicts it. If a drug dealer loses his license, if a drug dealer can expect payment, if a drug dealer can expect to be punished for any kind of treatment, of course, we are in serious trouble when we leave a councilroom that does not legalize. Because violations of these laws have to do with fines or prisons whether they are committed deliberately or unintentionally. Why am I saying this? Yes, because in the indication of the bill, it is stated that there are laws in the law that conflict. When a matter is incomplete and requires great self - control, it will not be reimbursed within a few hours before the end of the council. This is a very important thing. It's a long time for the pharmaceutical law to be revised, but it can't be done this way, Mr. President. This was measured at the end of the last year, and there was a deadline until mid - January. Then came the visitors from the committee. So the reason is not really honest. The official of the case to argue in the public discourse that the matter was being performed in the committee from the end of November when he, like all members of the committee, knows what. The welfare committee has been doing over the past few months. It is not the truth that this case has been in the process of the committee all this time. It's not. A committee is not being moved, it's just waiting. This was so because there was a pandemic that the International Assembly had to take action, and especially so. The welfare committee. This important matter could not be completed at the same time. I think it's irresponsible of the highest. Minister and minister. A senator and a prominent authority and the majority of the members of the Committee are to resolve this matter in a way that is being done today. I don't think it's irresponsible. And I'm sorry because this is a very important matter. Total reexamination of pharmaceutical law is a very complex matter. It's so complicated that it's easy to miss important things. But there is no hurry. They need to be careful when it comes to such an important matter. This is a hard race, Mr. President, being made some changes after this case is settled from the commission, after it has been said that the agent in my section and the person in this office will be taken into consideration, but then it will not be able to find its way into the committee, it will not find its way into the changes. These are indications from the reviews of professional reviews, a surgeon's reviews, but they do not find their way all the way. After this event occurs, adjustments are being made. Then we're here. And what will happen here in the public talk? Yes, the executive of the case announces one more change here, but no member of the Committee has heard of it. I still haven't found out what the change was because I just didn't understand what was going on. I don't know when I'm gonna see that change. It doesn't matter, but the rest of the money doesn't bet on my support in this matter. But I just want it to be in the legal evidence of the case, when it will be approved by the greater part of my complete irresponsibility, that I do not approve of this practice. The review of a land surgeon's office contains many comments that have not been taken into consideration. One of the main roles of the office is to monitor prescriptions and monitor and to promote the use of medicinal products in the country, as the law says about surgeons'office. As an example of technical tips that are very complex, just to help the public understand what we're dealing with, I'm going to let me read one tip from a review, with the permission of a president: ▪9. par. Medicinal product file (s) It is important that the National Competent Authority maintains a physician record of information on the subject. DDD medicinal products and DDD/pack, as well as ATC classes of medicinal products, e.g. in the final or supporting registry of medicines. It also shows that the route of administration is presented on a record.•The route of administration is also listed in the literature. This may not be for the poor common people sitting in bed. To understand a welfare committee. I'm going to give you another indication we received from the Medical Association which says that an H-labelled medicinal product must be defined either as a specific number or as an additional number at the 7th issue of authorised medicinal products. If it is also intended to eliminate the use of the H-labelling of the EMA that began from 2019 as planned with the S-labelling of medicinal products, this should be clearly stated. This is a technical indication. You have to call in people and find out exactly what they're talking about. There was no time for that. I'd like to take another example from the statement of a surgeon's office. An authority could not answer here in answer to how the greater part would visualize the execution of the part. This is 33 C.E. that refer to the product information for sale and dispensing of medicinal products directly from the Marketing Authorisation Holder or the public health centre. According to the surgeon general, this is a new one. This is not implemented in a paper with the bill or in a committee study. There's nothing to say about this, nothing. It is important to note that no special system outside the general prescribing and subsidies system will be installed by a competent surgeon who is a health care provider. I think we agree on that. But there's some law that's like this. For this particular set of rules 33 par. points to the surgeon general's office on Directive 1. 51st par. In this same bill, there is an absolute discrepancy with 33rd. where certain medicinal products are expected to be sold and dispensed, respectively, as stated in 1 mg. Fifty-one. ... withauthority of the President's permission: It is only possible to deliver a prescribed medicinal product to the prescription for prescribing prescriptions in a pharmacy. According to the surgeon general's review, only 1st will be seen. 51st par. Is inconsistencies with 33. where certain medicinal products are expected to be sold and dispensed directly to the general population from medical or healthcare centres. There's nothing explained. There is no limit. There will be a legal impossible for which the surgeon's office will not be able to handle. But I will again remind you that in the case of violations of these laws, guilt or imprisonment, whether intent or incompetent. How is the greater part of the Council going to answer for this? A charge can be issued against someone who violates the basics of medication that clearly contradicts. A significant discussion was made in the Committee on Drug Design and the conditions under which two pharmacists are usually employed in the pharmacy. A committee noted that the majority of these requirements are normal, but this does not include the obligation that they always serve directly at the same time. And in this committee party - a legal statement used when considering whether or not the rules are being violated, guilty or imprisoned, you remember - it is stated that in this case the obligation is not always to perform services at the same time, e.g. if someone else is erupting because of the same meal period. Pharmacotherapeutics are the only health - care profession that applies to them, and as shown by visitors in the Committee, there is no such provision in the North countries. Yes, there was a good deal of discussion, there was a smaller core and it would have to be the flexibility that the Agency could give an exception from this obligation to always have two pharmacists working in smaller places. And it's fine. But what about bigger places? By putting these words in the committee, it's okay that there aren't two specific services at the same time, that if someone else does not have to recall a replacement, it will have the legal effect, Mr. President, that there is no flexibility given on the fact that there are not always two people on duty. This is actually saying that it may be only a very short time, a legitimate time for food, a time to eat. That's just a little tighter than that. There's no flexibility. If the person gets sick, doesn't make it in the morning, you might as well find someone else to relieve the person of that day. It was a little strange, however, to hear it here in answer to what happened. The senator and the chairman of the case that it was unusual for a pharmacy to work on the authority of the pharmacist. Yes, it's unusual, but it's being totally stopped here. This bill and this committee party are making a complete contribution for the possibility that it can ever happen. This was discussed on the committee's specific basis. Is there a chance in a town like Akureyri Town where there are two pharmacy shops under the same hat, let's say, "Ape," that there are three pharmacists in these two stores instead of four, just up to the business? That there could be someone who could be a flier or something like that? Or in Kopavogi or West Side? If there are two branches, one in the West Side and another in the Hafnar Street, would this be possible? No. This change is not possible because the conditions are being so intense that the pharmacist can just eat them quickly. He can't even trip to the emergency room with his baby if there's a call from school. Everybody knows what the situation is there. You don't go in there less than three hours ago. In that case, you may simply have to close your shop or take a chance that the camp would not be awakened by a checkup because the store may receive a fine or the pharmacist may go to prison, according to the law. For what? A welfare committee also spoke of the possibility that an pharmacist would be in a remote service, but that was not approved. We talked about the importance of keeping it inside if that should be allowed. It's exactly what pharmacists' commission says, to have a warrant for the Watchkeepers. But that was not allowed. At 82rd. The bill speaks of the central database of medicine cards and it is fair to refer to the information provided by Iceland's Medical Association, but an explanation of the 12th database shows that the surveillance is intended to increase safety in prescriptions and as a result of drug monitoring. More health care professionals have the legal authority to prescribe drugs, such as medical students, dentists, pharmacists, and emergency checks. I can't see that it's made it to make any more adjustments. Medical prescriptions, not nurses, midwives, and others, should still be monitored only. There are some very good things that have been added, but for a very short time it has failed to go over it. I just want to point out that I feel that energy is ambiguous when making a full re-examination of the administration laws and such strict conditions for the work of the local pharmacists that neither the Minister nor the greater part requires that the pharmacist be at work when it comes to a medical treatment permit. Well, I think it's double because pharmacists at the pharmacy receive prescriptions from doctors, medical staff, nurses, midwives, and others. But at the medical clinic, all you need is no pharmacist, nothing. No one has to censor anything, and I find it strange. But there are so many things in this matter that are special. I don't have any more time, unfortunately, I have to stop now. But I reiterate that this fast - running process is dangerous, both to the public and to those who work in this sector. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u103	V.E.G. President. Here we discuss a bill for medicine, and I'm in a somewhat similar place, and I'm not going to repeat what the previous speakers have said. However, I want to review only the good things related to this bill, and there are especially the reviews that came first when this case was introduced by the government's consultations at the beginning of 2019 C.E. There were 112 reviews that came in for the bill, of which 98 were excerpts from farmers, animal doctors, including Iceland's Animal Medical Association, and then aggressor-related agriculture group. I've sometimes wondered if it's right to wear the same bill, i.e. drugs intended for human and animal use. There is not much time left to discuss the evidence here. But this bill has changed that it is a zookeeper and their operations and especially if we look to a rural area, so it really is important. Also, I would like to make it clear that Mr. Pharmactica's statement was taken into account, located in Grenivik, and it can be considered the best. It is my view that it is not right to place all power in the only major institution of the Landspir. That's why I've made a move on the 44th floor. And then 45 st. which is only compatible. - Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. discusses what has been highly critical of what the Committee for Drug Administration, which I have chosen to change to the extent of being discussed as a Hospital Drug Committee. And I also make it in my own motion that it is a Minister who orders, and I hear it here in the case of an authorityman that it is the major change that has chosen to take over but will not change it, I understand correctly, to take a land hospital name out of a drug committee to make a decision for all other health institutions and I'm against it. There was a review from the Akureyri Hospital that it was better to consult with other government agencies, even if they were the committees at the medical institutions themselves, or even to think that there are certain representatives from those who should be included in the Committee of the Medicinal Products to cover all institutions. It is also similar with a Committee of Medicinal Products, called the Committee for Development of the National Institute of Development, and that is also what I propose. And in agreement, I propose a change in the decision made by the Committees, both hospitals and health care, to be the final member of the administrative level and not to be charged with Ministers. A lot of criticism has come along. The head of the welfare committee, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, was given here a critical surgeon, whose nature is that it can hardly be overlooked. I hope we don't get it back, but there's huge things that are really important. It is really sad that we do not have time to respond, since it is essential that we give more attention. I'm not gonna spend much more time on this. But I agree with these concerns and reiterate them. There has been a lack of consideration for any consideration that we would have to go through to the committee so that it would be wishful if it could be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u104	A respectable president. Here we deal with a bill for pharmaceuticals. This is very important and I just have to agree with what's been going on here. I'd especially like to agree with the head of the welfare committee, please. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir. I'll sign the committee in advance. I thought we could get away with this in the Committee, but there are new forms of change that are there, but unfortunately they're missing. There have been an enormous number of doubts in this matter, and we cannot afford to let ourselves go through it this way. In this context, we need to understand that there were 27 reviews, an enormous number of them. I used to count the pages, it was a huge number of pages, a lot of reading. And the more I read, the more I realized how extensive this case is. This is an extremely serious matter, and especially serious if, as noted earlier, surgeons make some comments. It has also been shown how serious this is, that it does not matter whether people deliberately violate these laws or indecisions, the punishments will be fines, or prisons. This is kind of sad, and especially since this case fell aside when Covid broke down so that it has not received nearly enough coverage in the committee. I'm not gonna have this long, but if we just look at what's under there, we're talking at least. two pharmacists in a pharmacy, a license for veterinarians, duties of health care professionals, central databases, medication cards and personal protection, medical prescriptions, sale of medicinal products in retail. This is an enormous case, and, as I say, I do not remember to have ever signed a committee's opinion in advance and could not support the case. But as the case is set up here, I don't see how I'm supposed to be able to support it. I understand that the latest play is that some adjustments are being made that have been reported here in the public address. Then they must come up and talk to us at a meeting of the welfare committee, which we will yet have. I don't know what to give it back, but hopefully it'll bring something back. But as the situation is now, and as this case is, just have to say, just as it is, that we had needed much more time to go through it and more people who showed us that it wasn't working well, and get them for the committee. I really hope that that's what we're going to get. But if you don't and the case goes to votes, I'll be at yellow.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u105	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to correct the change to various laws due to the role of personal protection and the processing of personal information. These are the institutions of health - care ministers. This opinion comes from a major health committee. The committee has arranged a meeting for some guests. It covered the bill and the reviews and the offices of the surgeon, the Federal Protection, and the health insurance of Iceland. In the beginning, it says: The bill suggests the adjustment of various laws in the health - care environment to conform with the laws of personal protection and the processing of personal information. 90/2018.◯ Forwarding continues: In his review of the lack of improvement for the construction and management of central software solutions, such as Heclu Health Network, Health Care, Hospitalisation, and the development of the medical system. The need for the role of surgeons and health - care professionals who use such solutions is considered to be clear in the law. The Committee noted that the Ministry of Health agrees with these views, but it also pointed out that during the preparation of the bill, these views were discussed. If the Ministry suggested that such a change be made independent, i.e. not as part of the bill on this subject, in which there was a material change in the role of a surgeon's office rather than an adjustment to the new protection laws. The majority agree with their views and believe that a bill with a material change in the role of a surgeon's office is getting independent coverage at the General Assembly. The surgeon general also makes comments on the lack of legislation for the processing and communication of a disease practitioner on sensitive person data to identify the pandemic Korean virus. The bill provides a psychiatrist with access to the processing of personal information, including sensitive personal information on the health and medical use of individuals, in order to protect from health problems and to perform his legal roles under the control of disease, to meet the standards of personal protection and the implementation of personal information. The rest of that figure is regulations 7. The bill provides adequate permission for the necessary processing of a disease - control doctor in order to perform his legitimate work. I come here only on the review of Iceland's Medical Insurance: According to the National Medical Insurance Act, if the bill shows that law will be inconsistencies between health insurance laws and proposed changes in pharmaceutical law. The committee stated that such inconsistency would not be the result of the observed changes. A medical bill does not suggest a change in Iceland's health insurance obligations to keep a central pharmaceutical foundation, dr. Section 12. The bill of change of 29. a Treat on health insurance; rather, medical institutions are authorized to access the foundations to perform their legal function. So the majority does not consider to be a reason for changing the regulations. Then I review the changed proposals of the Committee that follow the committee opinion. It contains, first of all, the work programme on health care professionals: The review of an official surgeon's office is considered essential that the registration will also include the date of birth and the year of birth of the hired health care professionals to ensure the unique identification. A greater proportion agree with the official opinion of the office and suggest that we agree with the Ministry of Health at Article 6. The bill will be added to the publication of information about the date of birth and the year of birth. The review of a surgeon's office made comments on the regulations of the bill, including on what personal information is permitted to work and what measures should be taken to protect the basic rights and interests of the registered one. More than that, according to the surgeon general's statement, a consultation with the Ministry of Health with the Ministry of Health is suggested to be made by the surgeon's office to cover the 22nd floor. legal on surgeons and public health, No. 41/2007, shall be further developed and stated as a minister's obligation to implement Regulation including: on which person information is permitted and on which specific measures should be taken to protect the basic rights and interests of the registered one. And finally, it is the product database: 812 pars. The bill is presented with a change to 29. ... aSecretation of Health Insurance... The above 29 C.E. a will be discussed on the central medication base. The bill suggests that health institutions will be allowed to connect to the database, to use the database information and to provide information in it, to meet the standards of personal protection and the implementation of personal information. It's U.S. Federal Protection, and it's also called the Trinitarian Guard. to indicate that it is the Agency's evaluation that the purpose of the process needs to be better determined by itself. Furthermore, the Persian Protection states that in a more precise way it will be defined as the legal role of the institutions and direct appeal to the laws that define them. The majority agree with the Persian protection perspective and suggest that we agree with the Ministry of Health at Article 12. The bill is improved by a new case where the purpose of the improvement of personal information on the basis of this article is clearly defined and referred to the laws on which the organisation's role is based. Finally, the more part suggests adjustments to correct and correct the situation. These changes are technical, and they are not meant to have material influence. In view of all of this, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following changes. They are also listed in the preceding article, and an executive has made it clear to them materially in his case. But under this writing of the record that stands here, Special Agent Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, first vice president, Birgir of Ármannsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánsdótir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u106	Mr. President. I recommend a minority list of bill elements to correct the change in various laws due to the role of personal protection and the processing of personal information. It is considered that the one listed here, the chairman of a welfare committee, Anna Kolb Kolbrún Year's Árnadóttir, Halldóra Mogensen, the Guðmundur In Kristinsson, and Hanna Friðriksson Fridursson, an officer on the committee, agreed to accept this view. The smaller section feels that it is important to present comments in the processing of the bill as well as to work the more part on the requested bill. The work of the bill is, as shown in law data, taking into account new laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information, No. 90/2018, approved here at a council in June 2018. With the law it was legalized here on the European Parliament and the Council for the protection of individuals in connection with the implementation of personal information and the free sharing of such information, as it has been adapted to the European Economic Convention. The Regulation was launched in May 2018 in the European Union and released the European Parliament's Directive and the Council of October 1995 for the protection of individuals in connection with the implementation of personal information and the free sharing of such information. According to a bill with the bill, the main element was composed in connection with the Justice Department's work to a bill that became a personal protection law, which then was established by a panel of votes that would have been responsible for the implementation of personal information in cooperation with institutions who work on the basis of the local law to evaluate the changes to be needed because of the new personal protection laws. The memory serves to remind us that, in spite of long working hours, when the law on personal protection was generally critical of how late the bill came to Aldus, little time gave them for professional work as much as it was for the council. I'm sorry, Mr. President, the same is true of this bill that now serves as a decommissionment and personal protection from institutions in the health - care sector. Everyone is aware of the need for a bill of what is available today to end health - care agencies with the most sensitive personal information that are unequivocally protected from the laws of personal protection. So it is important to consult the institution that specializes in personal protection. There's a character protection called that institution. Residents of a welfare committee were called by Persian protection. The Committee stated that there was no consultation with the Agency in the preparation of the bill or that it had been evaluated as legally established in section V. Law on Personal Protection. The minority points out that the bill is not the only prime minister of the government, but it seems that it is a rule rather than an exception that ministers, even ministers of delicate cases, will make themselves at the head of a prime event to carry them under Peritoneal protection on a matter of sensitive personal information. Directing the smaller part to the government to improve this process, to increase the number of personal protectionists, and to ensure that the production of government primers will always evaluate the effects of individual protection before the Council is proposed. The bill was recommended in the end of January. and then sent a report. By the end of a notice period in mid - March months, a pandemic crown virus had broken down, which changed the order of the Generals, both in general assembly work as well as in the activities of the WCC. General cases on committees were set aside, but cases related to a pandemic crown response were put first, with no other issues being taken on the regular committees. A special appointment was needed for the President of the General Assembly to hold a fixed committee, including a welfare committee, and such permission was obtained if a meeting was given for a public assembly that was causing a reaction to the epidemic. In view of its topic fields, a large proportion of the cases involving the pandemic crown virus were received and allowed to meet for them. During this, for almost three months, other cases were put aside, including this. The nature of the matter has been unable to achieve a personal protection bill with regard to health - care institutions, as would have been best chosen at this time, with no visitors, or in a conversation within the committee. So if the greater part chose to provide such an important bill for the personal protection of the public in Iceland, without its complete work, would be disappointed when the greater part chose to make adequate adjustments or was able to discuss the words sufficiently mature. In the review of the Committee, representatives of the less part attempted to draw attention to the more part of the review of the local land surgeon's review, which was clear on the matter of improving the lack of information processing and sharing, including the lack of information. The process of a pathologist on sensitive personal information. This was shown in both committee bodies as well as to the committee itself. It was then noted that for some of the surgeon's office there was a lack of improvement in terms of, in some cases, surgeon's office. The structure and management of central software solutions, such as Heclu ◯ Health Network, Health Care, Joint Medical and Health. A reminder that a Regulation warrant for Ministers, as it is being suggested, would not have cleared up sufficiently, pooled 2nd Article 1.mg. 1 1. law on personal protection that commands clear laws if you work with sensitive person information. They can hardly be more sensitive, the person information, than the medical records of individuals. As development results in greater intervention, such a law must be unambiguous. A protocol does not meet such a legal obligation, and unfortunately, the changes made in the majority of the objects have not been changed. On the contrary, it's a court order for the Minister, but not a clear law. The minority feels that it is important to be strictly professional when it comes to important interests of the public. Personal information is important interests, so the smaller part cannot support the opinion of the majority of the section or its proposed changes, despite the importance of the bill. If it was ready and improved, the smaller part would, of course, be supportive. Since there has been no time to prepare changes in the memory of the part during the spring season, they do not follow the commission because such adjustments must be made under Peritoneal protection and be subject to those who are expected to cooperate with this, e.g. Governor's office. It's the lesser part that encourages the highest. Health Minister to immediately initiate work on terms of personal protection laws in terms of the bill and then have full consultation with Perone Protection. Such consultations lead to careful legalization and increased citizens' legal security.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u107	A respectable president. Here we are discussing a bill to correct a set of laws because of the laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information. This is one of the things that would have been so easy to get along, to do professionally, and to do it properly. Sadly, though, this matter had to be taken care of at an incredible pace, so it did not get the counsel and tactics that would suit us properly. The main concern for me personally in this matter is sensitive personal information. We need to realize that there are sensitive personal information that people don't know about. Various items are included in medical files that people have no idea that they had enrolled there. There's nothing more pathetic than reading some paper in an insurance company or just somewhere out in a town, in some menu, that there's evidence that you don't know about you, that you're a physical person, and that you're a lot of personal information. Things are shaken and shaken, and that's why we have to make sure that the personal protection laws are followed completely. That's why I'm in the minority here, supporting my mind. I wish it had been better. The matter itself is very good, but unfortunately it's not working well enough, and as a result, it comes up again that it sucks to agree with a matter that is supposed to be good, and you should support your brain, but when you see that there are holes in it, it is so difficult to support it that way. It's kind of a sad story that these matters are fast. We've got to go to the council and start filming other tactics.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u108	A respectable president. I'm here offering an opinion with a change in bill proposal to legalize the laws on equipment, method of loyalty and security at work, no. 46/1980, with subsequent changes, which focus on the working hours of employees who provide personal manual assistance. The committee has met ten guests and received reviews from four sources on the matter. The bill suggests that an extended period of time will be extended to the end of 2020. legalize equipment, method of loyalty, and safety at work, No. 46/1980, with an agreement between the labour market partners, allow for a shorter period of rest for staff who provide services on the basis of Article 11. track No. 38/2018, with long - term supportive care for disabled persons. The majority of the data shows that the above source was originally intended for the end of 2016, but was extended three times. These are important services rendered to disabled persons and must be provided with a solution that ensures their rights and rights of staff handling personal staff. The right to rest required for at 53rd. there are minimal rights to ensure the safety and health of the staff. So the work to be completed over three years ago must be completed as soon as possible and found a solution that ensures that the staff's best rights in terms of the particular nature of their service. The above - mentioned document was found in a provisional law of 9 that has fallen out of force with the last extension being extended in 2019 C.E. Therefore, consider the larger portion to be the right thing to take back the rest of the arrangement. If a solution is intended to be delayed, the more part might be directed to the Minister to provide a bill for extension before the date of the date of the date of the date of the date of the specified contracts for the user-controlled personal assistance. In addition to the changes described above, the majority suggest a word change in the bill's headline to ensure that the general term of the user - controlled personal assistance is consistent. The majority suggest that the bill be approved by the changes I've tore up here in my case. Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson and Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir were away from the case but signed this opinion according to a 4 mg source. 18th par. Council procedures for the Council Committees. This is what you're gonna sign. General members: Helga Vala Helgadóttir, president of advance, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Vilmur Bjarnason, Anna Kol Kolbrún Árnadóttir, also in advance, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándótir, Rafney Humney Magnúsdóttir Magnótttir and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u109	Mr. President. Thank you. Kristjánsdóttir All right, Signý, give Kristjindóttir to y'all for the tour. Yes, I'm on the committee in advance and I'm giving two things to my boss. On the one hand, the matter is taken out at a time when there is very little time to cover it well and to work with it, as is necessary, because there are, of course, some comments to it. But I would also like to make it clear that it is quite unacceptable how long this has taken, that year after year, an extension of a matter should be done slowly in the councils, in committees set up six months after it was due to be set up, etc. I think it's a tip for us, and that's part of the committee's opinion, and a tip to the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs for finishing this case so that we do not have to stand here again to a year and extend to something that is incomplete. Of course not. It will consume all our time, and it will affect those who should be least used to this service.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u110	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion of the changes in bill proposals for social support to the elderly from the wind. The welfare committee. The committee has discussed the matter, had guests, and reviewed the reports received. The bill suggests that the total social support laws for the elderly will be provided. It is suggested that a new social network be established for the elderly living here and that they have no or limited pension rights in social security. It is expected that at the maximum of the monthly pay period for an individual under the law, 90% of the total amount of money may be fully spent under social security law, as well as 90% of the monthly amount of full household support under social law when applicable. Here's a chapter on government funds assessment for legalization. It states that it is clear from the regulations set out in the bill that its legal fixation is accompanied by the cost of a government fund. As indicated by 66 C.E., the contribution was not accompanied by cost estimates. it's a government law. At the Department of Social Affairs, it was requested that the Commission be sent a cost assessment of the case. The Committee received an assessment of the effects of legislation on April 30, 2020, where an analysis and evaluation of financial impact factors for the state were made. In addition to additional support under the bill, both persons who are listed in the state's Insurance Institute and who have less right than the maximum social support and those who have no right to social security laws and social assistance laws. The Ministry's cost estimate shows that support will include about 400 pensioners, in view of the opinion of the insurance agency since November 2019, and will cost of support to them as little as 461 million. K. Year by year, by the price of 2019. If compared to a 3.5% increase in combustion between years, the annual cost would be 2,202 billion. K. It is estimated that costs due to those who do not have rights in the social security system but who have received contributions from the local community are minor. It is assumed that those who qualify for social support usually lived in this country for four years and thus have at least some rights for pension. According to the Ministry assessment, about three individuals are expected to have full right to social support that can study about 3.5 million. K. Every year, for each individual. In addition, the Ministry's cost assessment shows that the estimated cost of the introduction of a new category of credits at the Insurance Office is about 30 million. K. In the year 2020, as a single cost, the Agency's annual cost will be about 40 billion. K. It is estimated that the annual cost of the bill can reach up to 530 billion. K. Since the law is expected to go into effect on July 1, 2020, the Ministry is assuming that the cost of the current year will be about 280 million. K. plus 30 million. K. induction costs. This refers to a decline in the values of the bill and a temporary residence permit and the rights of the EEA and EFTA as an added support. In 1st. 2.g. The bill says that laws take over individuals aged 67 years and older, have established and registered legal homes in this country and reside permanently in Iceland. Two. 2.g. Says that if a foreign citizen is involved, it is condition that he has an untimely residence permit in this country according to the law on foreigners, No. 80/2016. The review of the Environment Agency points out that due to the conditions of the untimely residence bill, citizens of the EFTA countries and states within the European Economic Areas that remain untimely in this country are not entitled to additional social support. Foreigners falling under the European Economic Convention and the European Free Trade Association Conformation Convention are excluded from the requirements of foreigners for an untimely living permit. Therefore, the EES and EFTA rights to non-term living are not under the conditions that the individual has received an untimely living permit under the laws of foreigners. A memo received by the Ministry on April 14, 2020, says that anyone who can settle in here under the law of foreigners can fall under the bill. Therefore, it can be assumed that the EEA and EFTA citizens can have the same rights as other foreign citizens to social support according to the bill. So the committee suggests a change in the claim that the individual is eligible for 2 mg. 2.g. if, according to Article 87 or 88, he has an untimely visa or right to an untimely residence. Acting on foreigners, compares to 91st. The law. By doing this, citizens of the Northern countries, including the Isles, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland, also have the right to pay under the bill, which allows them to stay on this land without permission. It adds to the terms "emission" which can be the basis of an untimely residence authorisation that, according to the review of the National Institute of Iceland, one condition of granting an untimely deposit is that an untimely extension of the individual is secure. Hence, there is a paradox in the rendering of law 3 mg. That it is permitted to give an exception from a 2.mg requirement. 2.g. has a foreign citizens living on a land that can be the basis of an untimely residence permit, as if it were placed here on land for at least two years when applying for additional social support and special circumstances. The committee points out that it refers only to the species of residence that can provide the basis for an untimely residence permit, but not that all conditions of the untimely residence will be met when applying for additional support. Thus, it is permitted to look to the fairness of the decision to give an exception on the basis of a 3.mg. and can do this, e.g. refers to the failure of the extension, such as the death of what it guarantees, or if the person has to retire because of permanent disability before receiving a permanent residence permit. Reservation is discussed on the basis of family unity but in 4 mg. 2.g. According to the report, family members who have been granted reimbursed in Iceland based on family unity do not agree with the law. The same is true of another person who shares a home with the person responsible for its implementation. The Committee points out that provision for family unity according to VIII. section of the law on foreigners is not an untimely license. Subjects who reside in this country due to a resuscitation due to family unity do not meet the criteria of 2.mg. 2.g. unless they have subsequently received an untimely visa according to Article 58. The law. The review of the Committee pointed out that there may be a degree of blurred vision in the range of 4 mg. In this respect. On the one hand, the arrangement might be understood so that those who stay on the land on the basis of the provision of family unity would not be entitled to additional support, but it does not involve material conditions that exceeded the 2. However, the law could be understood to mean that if the family's legal rights became the basis for the non-realvable residence that was given to the individual, he could not be entitled to social support according to the bill. Having agreed with the Ministry, the Commission believes that the first understanding will be laid to the foundation, i.e. that family unity allows people who are on a permit not to have the right to provide additional social support. In this regard the committee points out that it is a general requirement for the individual to be granted an untimely visa that his forwardance was loyal during his period of residence and that he could and could continue to support himself. In view of the fact that the regulations of the bill generally do not include those who have temporary residence clearances, the Committee counts as 4 mg. 2.g. there is no independent significance, in excess of 2 mg. 2.g. To prevent the misunderstanding identified above, the committee suggests a 4. 2.g. ... goout. Requisite requirements are referred to. In the 10th. The bill contains the authority of an insurance agency to reimburse employees for overcrowded funds has occurred without the application of the law's terms and in 5 mg. 13th par. Remuneration due to deliberate misinformed, misleading, or inadequate information is required. The report on the product of the IRS is to be taken into account that the arrangements under the bill, including the core income criteria, may result in significant improvements in recalculation. Does the IRS suggest that not all domestic incomes are standard payable, and such income may not be available until the end of a income year? In this regard, the Commission points out that a similar arrangement is not expected and is in the social security laws, where compensation is based on the annual income management programme and is recalculated when information on the revenue of the year is available. Instead, it is suggested that the employee should report any changes in income or other circumstances that may interfere with the decision to support and payment. This is how an arrangement based on the information granting of employees and reimbursement of the National Insurance Agency will be taken into account in case of overwork. So it will not be possible to recalculation in the same way as social security laws recommend. They're about the information of other parties. 12th degree. The bill says that the institutions listed there should provide information electronically or otherwise to the extent necessary for the implementation of the law. The Committee reviewed that under the social insurance laws, insurance agencies have an educational obligation to their clients for the planned implementation of personal information. The committee suggests the adjustment of 12 pars. This will be added to the educational responsibility of the National Relations Agency for the proposed information collection. The bill is suggested to establish a new social network that will be assigned to an insurance agency. While there is a need for considerable priming before the law can be performed, the National Relations Act says that it may be necessary to do so. needs to introduce a new system of payment and processes into the Agency system. In this regard it was noted that it was almost impossible for the Agency to complete the necessary preparatory work prior to the implementation of the law. So the committee puts it into place for a change of 19th degree. bill of implementation of the law on November 1, 2020 Since the law is expected to gain value on July 1, 2020, payments will be repetitious from that day to the day when the law will be implemented. In view of the above, the committee suggests that the bill will be approved by the change I have tore up above. Under these publications. Councilmen Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Christiannsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Árnadóttir Kolblnadóttir, in advance, Bárísdóttir Haraldsdóttir In Kristinsson, in advance, Halldódra Mogensen, Orri Páll Jóhannsson and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u111	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the review of the committee opinion. Yes, I am on the committee's faces, as I've been in before, that the committee has not had enough time to do the primes now available for payment at the end of the assembly, because the committee was simply busy with other things, here was the seasoning of the yet-growing crown virus. We are still infected, but we are about to return to our lives, and the activities of the Synod committees have been restored. Unfortunately, however, the work around the crown virus and the epidemic took about Three months of employment by the Committee, which has affected all cases provided by the Committee. So I'm warning you, it's not working properly. I also warn that the group who are not entitled to any other support, to have no or limited pension rights in public insurance, should be subjected to a decrease in the minimum amount of life paid from the social security system, which is not sufficient to provide, as everyone knows, and is considerably below the minimum budget. The group we're going to support so he doesn't have total hunger, gets only 90% of minimal pension, and I'll make a comment about that. I find it odd that we should not allow these individuals to sit at the same table as anyone who gets a pension from the social security system. I find that shocking, and I agree with the ASI tip.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u112	A respectable president. Here we discuss a very important subject for few individuals, but it is of utmost importance. There is a bill on social supplementary support for the elderly. There's a group that has fallen out of the system and has had to live on - I know an example of 70,000 bucks. a month or so, which says that you cannot live on, so that the individual needs to consult the local community, even after food assistance. But the weirdest thing about this bill is that I support it with my whole mind, but it's still defective. It's kind of strange in that context because the complexity in this case is so intense and unnecessary. 90% is being replaced by 100%. That calls for calculating. That is the cost behind it, which is very strange for how few individuals are involved. And what is strange, as well as we to our great shame, is that we reassign a dollar to a dollar. How can we come to that conclusion? I can't believe we're back on the same schedule, and we're going to take this group straight for it, saying, "Hey, we're gonna put a nickel against a dollar back on this group again. Then there's the other one that hasn't had enough coverage, I'm rooting for this bill, but we're looking for an intern. Of course, this has exactly the same value as that of invalids in this situation. There are a number of microchips in the awful situation that if the account of their disability is taken into account by an individual and a resident, young people who are desperate, and for some reason have gone to school with their parents, this will be the case. I ask, "Why are these people not included in the world? " I'm glad that this bill is done, because then the disabilityists must follow along. Something else would embarrass us. This bill makes it clear that the cost of insurance is first 30 million. K. and then 40 million. K. every year thereafter. These costs would not be here if we had just done the exact same thing as usual in a insurance institution, but only had the same rules as about 100%. Anything else would apply. And a dollar across from a dollar impairment wouldn't be in there. It would be just the exact same rules and conditions for other older citizens of this country. Of course, this is just an amazing phenomenon. Why do we put these old citizens in some booths and say, "You're 90%, you're 100%? And then we take the poor and say, "You don't get anything to go with it. I thought we had become more developed and advanced in human rights and respect for sick people and older citizens of this country, that we did these things. I would understand that we did this because it cost so much, that we were in that place, and that society was so that we could just not afford to do it. But what do the figures tell us? This is not an insurmountable cost. It's just a matter of reasonableness and respect for human rights. But as I say, I will support this case even though I have found all this fault because I know that these people need this. I just think this is the first step and will fight for it to be the first step in helping this group and that everyone else will be here. If the government doesn't see it, I'll definitely file a case that individuals, such as micromasks outside, get in there, too, that it's on the same basis, that everyone is equal, that we don't put people in booths by how they came to the land. If we're going to agree that people are here and that all rights are supposed to be rights, they're supposed to have 100% rights, not 90%.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u113	Mr. President. I won't take long here, because he's barely rationed at the end of the council. I come here primarily to celebrate, in particular, that this matter is now hopefully getting paid over here. I've had this group in mind a little bit and a look at it from the moment I sat on a welfare committee several years ago and started paying attention to this hole that was in our national security network, which was the standard of life for the group that has reduced social security rights for a short time in this country. I know examples of people who are in a very bad position for that reason, people who have come here to work, even at the middle of their age or later, from their homeland with virtually no rights, and so are getting older and who have earned a very limited right in our system. Here is the results of a group of work that was put into it after reviewing according to the Government Convention what could be done to specifically improve their status as a total failure in the system, and this is exactly this group. And if we didn't take any of these measures, we would be judging for pure poverty, far below what any other community in the world would live on, part of this group, and it will be growing in the years to come. When people look at the interaction of social security and pension funds and pension rights, the old thought in the old uniform community went out that they would have full rights in the social security system to the extent that they were missing in their pension rights, but then they would take their pensions gradually and live more and more of that money in later years. It was overlooked that society has since changed dramatically, and that was quite normal. The people didn't realize how multinational Iceland has become and how many have moved here in the last few years and/or Icelanders have lived in foreign parts of their lives. As a result, people have made certain progress here in a way that I would like to say, in contrast to the last speaker, that I am perfectly satisfied. I think it's a good deal of work here. I'm completely satisfied with human rights not guaranteed 100%, and it's perfectly normal to withdraw rights that are hoped to have in any other place, i.e. if you have developed rights in other countries, then it is quite normal to withdraw. Unless what? Of course. That's exactly what's built here. [[Up front.]] Yeah, yeah, I don't see any better. [[Top of the list, 90%.]] Yeah, 90%. But it's now very close to getting accepted in the same way. And, of course, that's how Iceland takes on a lot beyond what it deserves, e.g. In international context, in dual tax exchange and in other matters. It's simply because we don't want people on a large scale who are far less fortunate. If we walk all the way, it would be much easier to eliminate all the laws on the residence ratio, or I can't see better, and that would be a natural absolute change. So as a first step in handling the terms of these people, I'm fine with this, and I think they should be welcomed. Of course, people can believe that nothing is good enough until it's perfect, or 100%, but I'm not necessarily there. I'm not a man who cries that in our system there are some sources of income that make it easier for us, while we don't just have all the money, to do the best with the losers. I have the truth, and I have said it before, growing concern over the way men speak of those things. Understandably, a person is trying to find ways to improve the situation of those who are disappointed. I'm going at least. To be there for what I have to do in politics, to be a special member of that team when it comes to the approval of all who are lazy. This is an indistinguishable development issue. It's about to come into action now in the time of this government, and I'm proud to be a member of its team.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u114	Mr. President. I didn't mean to come here to answer that agreement. I hope to the highest. The president doesn't consider an agreement to be broken by making an answer to him. But speak to the highest. The president was in such a way that we cannot help but respond. Of course, all of us support the government's efforts to keep people out of the way. Of course we do. Of course. And somehow making the one in this room seem to be opposed to it is a lot harder. My obituary has merely turned to the conclusion that there is no full support for this group. It's a small group like you can see on a committee party. It is said that three individuals a year have the right to have full support. The cost is 14 million. K. Every year, Mr. President, 14 million. K. These are not such sums that we cannot allow those who have no other fund, receive no other support - why can't we give them 100% support? Why do we decide to have 90% of the minimum amount of life that we don't know adequate in the forward future? Why not?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u115	Mr. President. I spoke here for myself and expressed my joy in this matter, and I was not answering earlier talks except in one way that I described myself, in contrast to the last speaker, very pleased with this matter, but he criticized many things in it. That's all there was to it. She's the one who had the speech. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir moved was not why I went to the platform. I had nothing to say about her.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u116	A respectable president. I want to reiterate it here that I'm on this 100%. I've been fighting for this, and I'm really happy about this. We've set this up in the Kurdic Coalition and I've met some of the individuals that this applies to. What I was just criticizing was this 90% because if it costs 400 million to have 90%, there's 10% of that another 40 million. But that's exactly the cost of yoking the system. What I was just trying to mean is that it would probably be cheaper for everyone to have the system simple, to be not getting the system involved in one thing. The simpler the system is, the more efficient it is and better. I was just pointing it out. And the other thing that may be the most serious in this is what I've also pointed out, including of the Committee, the lack of disability. Why didn't we bring the cripples too?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u117	Mr. President. I totally understand what you're doing. A senator is leaving, and he has a legitimate view on the subject that it may be easier to set off immediately as a 100% payment. But I think I also understand the identity of the authors and why the work group's conclusion was this. People want to step down to the ground only before they assume that for the long future, this specified group, who are in restricted rights, will be equal to the rest of the population in general. I think there's something people would have to do very well before they did that in the first place. We know that if we had left this way, we'd never get back. I view this as a bit of a precaution and that this makes it very evident that it does not always take the Icelandic insurance system, and no matter how many people are involved and how large this group will be, the step to the top, to 100%. I think it's relatively well done to this group when there's no more than 10% left. And I'm well aware that in work and opinion of these past few years men were even starting with ideas of a much lower proportion. When the bill arrived, I was very happy that men went to 90% altogether. Maybe I know. A senator to this, if he is the author of the background, to the early stagers, even those who are more fortunate in terms of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u118	A respectable president. I think it's just a simple matter. We agree in many ways, but we are just wondering about that 90% or not. I can't help but celebrate 90% because there are individuals leaving at 0 to 90%. It's just great. Can you imagine? I know of individuals who would say, "I get from June 1st, wow." I'm going back. These are people who had it so bad that it wouldn't be a defence in any way to protest, and I'm really celebrating it. But like I said, I saw this flaw in it. I would have preferred this extra cost to be in the pockets of those who need it rather than to create a system that costs us tremendously and may be out of date after a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u119	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion from a greater part of the Department of Health for a bill to legalize the law on unemployment insurance that is involved in a more efficient implementation. This matter came to us on a welfare committee, and we did it fast and hard. The matter cannot be spoken of as it has been in a special hurry, since it is very simple. By obtaining a few guests and reviewing the comments that were very positive, the speed of work could be accelerated in this way. So the case is 2nd. And I'm happy for it. The committee received reviews on the case. The bill suggests changes in unemployment insurance laws aimed at making the law clearer and more efficient. The bill suggests that the police will be added to the list 9. legal on unemployment insurance on those partners as a labour agency is permitted to call for information from the act of the law. The Commission concluded that there was a lack of analysis in the bill on which kind of work agency information is permitted to call from the police. Such personal research would have to be based on clearance in Article 9. law on personal protection and the processing of personal information, and if there is a sharing of information on criminal conduct, the management of the labour oce would also have to be based on clearance at 1 mg. Section 12. same song, i.e. that it is needed for a work done in the interests of public interest or for the use of public power delivered by the carer. The Commission explained that the information that the labour agency may need from the police is information that is useful in monitoring the pay of unemployment. In particular, information that police are going to be informed about during a workforce patrol with other workers, e.g. The tax and the workaholics. If the police have been called in the workplace, the labour agency lacks permission to get information about this. The Agency may also need information to provide an illegal stay of individuals in the country and to see if they are working while they are being paid unemployment, for example. The police may also have information about the findings of jobseekers suspected to be abroad and may even excommunicate. The labour oce is needed to keep information on this, which is one of the conditions for unemployment insurance that a jobseeker is in Iceland, such as 13. Act on unemployment insurance. A labour agency already has permission to obtain information from the police in other legislation on which the Agency conducts the work, e.g. the law on the job rights of foreigners, the laws on employee care and the laws on employment cards and work care at work. Predefined legislation allows the Labour Office to use assistance and ask for police information. According to the labour oce, it has a factor of 1st. The bill takes into account all doubt about the Agency's authority to use this information to monitor reforms in the implementation of unemployment insurance legislation, without having to seek such sources beyond unemployment insurance legislation. The majority agree that it is important to have access to information provided by police involved in the management of unemployment benefits under unemployment insurance law, e.g. information from police patrols at the workplace and on whether suspected jobseekers are in the country or not. The information is needed in order for a labour agency to perform its legal role in monitoring the implementation of law on unemployment insurance. This will be discussed in the form of antiquated and black jobs. The Committee concluded that due to the pressures of the Labour Organization due to the result of a pandemic crown virus, questions arose as to whether the Agency could handle the obligation to inform jobseekers of the laws against unemployment insurance. Therefore, it would be necessary to extend the deadline to Article 8. the bill from four weeks to eight weeks to ensure that an individual has received sufficient information on current rules and treatments for violations. The Committee explained from the Work Office that the increased pressures for a pandemic crown virus do not affect the Agency's ability to fulfill its duties to provide information to jobseekers on their rights and duties. The Agency's presentation of rights and the related duties of jobseekers is widely carried out, and information is sufficient in the Agency's opinion when jobseekers apply for unemployment benefits. The applicant for unemployment benefits, which has been registered unemployed for four or eight weeks, has not received a more extensive presentation of the conditions of the law than the one who has been registered for one week. The labour oce suggests that by shutting off the bait laws due to fraud during the first four weeks of a person's unregistered without a job, as suggested in Article 8. The bill, can raise questions about equality between candidates, as two persons who become aware of the same offense may receive different treatments and repairs depending on when they have applied for unemployment improvements. In view of the above, the Labour Organization opposes the application of the product on the specific duration of unemployment. In spite of the above mentioned, a larger part is right to aim for a secure non-employee registered in the Work Office for four weeks or more, as expected by the bill, thus ensuring that those enrolled without employment in the Labour Office have been properly informed of the guidelines recommended in the provision. In this regard, it is important that the workforce inform jobseekers in a thorough manner about hard repairs due to fractures. The majority point it to the labour oce to ensure that such information is transmitted safely to jobseekers. The majority suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under countless printed page. Councilmen Helga Vala Helgadóttir, president of advance, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdóttir, Árnadóttir Kolbröfjörnóttir, in advance, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, in advance, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Vilhjálmur of the Árnason, and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason. Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson and Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir write this under warrant at 4 mg. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u120	A respectable president. I come up here to bring the Commission's opinion of a bill to legalize the law of services to disabled people with long - term needs, of user advice. The Commission has discussed the matter and received its meeting with Erna Kristín Blöndal and Þór G. Þórarinsson from the Department of Social Affairs, Bryndís Sólbjörn's Snæbjörnsdóttir from the National Institutes of Development, Sveinsson and Rúnar Björn Herreri Þorkelsson from Iceland's Department, Guðjón of Bragason and Tryggvi Þórhallsson from the Union of Iceland. The subject and objective of the bill. Seven. A current law on services to disabled persons with long - term needs is required of the non-employment of the Social Affairs Ministry to seek the counsel of the user in the area, regardless of whether there is a legal entity involved in the services of disabled persons or a disabled person who personally chooses to handle his own contract of personal assistance or NPA. This obligation has caused some problems, and in some cases it has been impossible to grant leaves. The bill suggests that in all cases when applying for permission on the basis of Article 7. The law shall direct the secretary to consult with the staff of disabled persons in the Regulation. However, a minister should consult with disabled people's interest groups, the Union of Icelandic rural society and the collective body of paymen in the preparation of such regulations. So the objective of the bill is to resolve any of the possibilities mentioned above that have been involved in the implementation of the law. The Committee concluded that despite the unrecognised obligation of the Ministry to consult the direction of the user council in the community being dismissed, it is always important to consult the user council and/or to consult a committee on the issues of disabled persons when discussing the issues and needs of disabled persons. Then it came to the view that it was important that within the user council, those who use services to disabled persons with long - term needs, not just employees of their interest groups. The committee agrees with the above views and directs the Ministry to take these into account in their work. Then it came to the committee's viewpoint that following the entry into force of law No. 38/2018 has raised uncertainty about the provision of consultations with disability providers. The uncertainty could be attributed to the legal procedure decided that the framework of this enterprise was in the Community Services Act, No. 40/1191, rather than the law No. 38/2018. It would be required to consult groups on the issues of disabled persons in the local community service laws, but the law No. 38/2018 would be required to look for the direction of your community council member. The uncertainty observed is reflected in the different parties. This should be true both in consultation groups and in user counsel. It was concluded that the terms of the Regulation, set on 7th paragraph, should be spoken of. track No. 38/2018, if the bill went forward, that the above groups of consultations on disabled people's issues should be the advice of the local community. The Committee agrees that negotiation groups on the issues of disabled persons under local social services laws may be a suitable site for community user advice according to law No. 38/2018. The Commission believes, however, that rural communities should be allowed to expand this area of user organisations according to the situation in each rural society and may therefore consider that a team of consultations according to local community social services laws would be presented as user advice in this sense. The review of the Committee provided indications of improvements that might be considered regarding other aspects of law No. 38/2018, including indications on review of legal requirements for expert team members and the share of user at food costs. The commission to address the subject of the bill is reserved for user council, but it is directed to the Ministry to consider the recommendations given by the Committee and whether material is to revise the laws of the law in their place. A view on the committee's discussion was also presented as a failure to set up a user council in all rural areas. The committee considers it important that the Council of Users operates within a community and directs it to the Ministry to encourage rural society to implement such advice, since they have an important role to play. The committee also presented the view that it is reasonable for those who are employed by user council to be paid for their jobs there. The committee feels that this matter is considered to be considered in more detail by the partners. In view of the need for a change to be made to solve the conditions mentioned above, which have been identified in the implementation of the law on a work permit, the Committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. And under this opinion, the publications of Prefect Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Kristjánsdóttir Signý Kristjándótttir, Halldorra Mogensen, in advance, Árnadóttir Kolbrönóttir, in advance, Ingi Kristinsson, also in advance, and others in advance. Councilmen, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Vilhjálmur Árnason and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u121	A respectable president. I'm going to come up here for a moment on this subject, dealing with services to disabled people. I'm especially glad that we're about to finish taking it off a committee and cut off the knot that had come up in NPA. What may be the greatest cause for rejoicing with the Council of Use is that the motto of the Quantum Community will be made conditional: nothing about us without us. They come in strong because the people who are disabled now have the right to approach them. So it's a good thing. I'm really glad that it's in and that this case is over here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u122	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a committee study with a bill on the bill for the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee. The bill is rooted in the public - welfare organization of the third sector, or their initiative, and the preparatory work group that reported. That work took place over a decade ago. Therefore, a respectable president, it is not easy to end the matter in this way, by deportation. Some time has passed, hard work has been done all along, and the case is now proposed for the third time here at the General Assembly. This was put forward for the first time at the Council of 145th, again in 149 and again in this council. So there is hope that there is a question why we simply do not finish this matter. It is impossible to assume that the committee did not discuss the matter properly or that the matter was lacking. Many people have discussed this matter over the years sent reviews about it and visited the committee, as has been done in this case during this council. They're listed in the committee's opinion. Of course, there are a large number of people whom the bill embraces, which has not been involved in the matter during this council but has done so in the past. So they are not in this list. This does not change because the situation has developed and has changed, and most people, as time goes on, become more positive to what it says. Many have simply been waiting and have called for us to finish the case and to agree that there will be a total law on the activities of a public - service partner. As a review, there are key reasons for its purpose or for the need for a complete set of rules on this form of society that it is relevant to many societies that are involved in public welfare, to form when companies receive pay from the public or to perform public service in accordance with agreements with state and rural society. The bill suggests a new global law, where there will be a new P.S. partner support and therefore a shaped legal mask where there will be rules for an institution, a key element of approved membership, decision-making and management of such members. A share agrees with the objective of the bill and believes that there will be a commitment to social and social activities, as suggested in the bill. However, the majority feel that no further consideration of criticism has been made, including the following: from large organisations, such as Iceland's Olympian Union, Iceland's Hungarian Society and other sources, through the years that explain the fact that the situation has never fully ended. But what I'd like to mention here and have followed the case, and unfortunately this case is not an isolated case, is that from the beginning, in the preparation of the case, there has been a greater lack of consultation with the number of organizations I mentioned here and others. Thus, the release now, with a check, is the efforts of the committee to achieve such a conversation. So I refer to the Ministry to make good use of the time and to discuss their point of view, of course, that the rule on this subject is already in place to form an Iceland's Inletture Association. I can also name the entire organization of rescue workers. This bill's approval would have a major impact on the activities of these mass organisations. I can name the National Institute for Youth in Iceland and others. For example, in the United States, the entire movement operates according to the routine of the sports relationship and has followed through the years. In addition, it is based on the Olympic Treaty and the rules of international specialities. In addition, juvenile special relationships and regional relationships have made comments to the early bill. A respectable president. I think there may be a material solution to the issues that have been published on the subject. More than that, if even outside the field of values, the time must be taken to consult a process of exporting and its effects. The same applies to a number of other big public welfare organizations, such as the rescue forces and the Red Cross, which, in the same way, have established and divided their rules and formalities. In this context, other people have made significant comments to make SIBS, which need to be considered, and especially comments from the members who call for such a rule. Thus, the majority suggest that the bill be referred to the government in which it is viewed in the light of comments. It is important that, at that point, a wide - scale consultation with the sport movement and the following occurrences by other stakeholders involved in the bill should be made with the aim of paying for all the acceptable views before the bill of this material is submitted to the next legislature council. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson is signing this opinion in advance. He thinks it's disappointing that it hasn't been finished yet. But under the order of the centuries, it was written. Some of the people: Óli Björn the son of Kárason, Willum Þór the son of Þórsson, Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur the son of Þór Gunnarsson, in advance, and in Smári Mccarthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u123	V.E.G. President. I recommend to the Committee to conduct a bill on changing the law on the actions of the money industry and the funding of terrorism and the law on the registration of real owners, the measures for money theft and the funding of terrorism, from a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee. This is, in nature, a technical and complex subject that we are always trying to improve. The bill is suggested to complete the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and the Council of 2018/843 as well as any changes resulting from previous application experience. The directive, referred to in Article 5 of the EU budget. The proposals made in a special Senate document are set up in the members' list of parts, and I'm going to read them here, by permission of the president: Change proposals for more part of the budget and sector of 1st. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: The rest of the part suggests a change to 1. The bill on change of 1 mg. 2.g. The law. First, there is a change in a-a team to take off all double measures regarding tax surveillance to credit plants that are also carousels. Second, add a list of n-joints. In addition, it is assumed that behind the n- teams, car accounts and real estate companies will also fall. Third, jewelry and gold sales will be added to those who fall under the standards of the law, in line with the tax proposal there. Fourth, word changes for the r-teams are suggested that are not intended to include material changes. Fifth, it is suggested that a new letter be added to the nondescriptors who are involved in business arts. Changes include to adapt the bill to the application of the law No. 140/2018, about the money load and the funding of terrorism. In the 3rd. This is an exception from obligation to conduct a risk-benefit assessment, but the majority of it suggests a factor of 3. The bill that takes away 3 mg. Section 5. The law, on authority to issue an exception to conduct a risk assessment, to be dismissed. There's a list of bank accounts in 8 paragraph. The committee received a memo from the Ministry of Justice that suggested a change to 8. The bill. The memo says, with President's permission: ▪ After further investigation within the Ministry of Justice, it is reasonable to suggest that reference to the criminal conduct of 3 mg. The article will be dismissed. It seems then that rather than the expression "one" of the above values, according to the same paragraph, you will directly refer to the Rapporteur's law on action against the money theft and the financing of terrorism. The bill was written in order to complete the introduction of the fifth money-stealing order. The directive states that information in a bank account should be available to citizens in order to carry out their duties under the directive. No other criminal conduct is referred to in this regard. Rather, it is intended to include access to the established government in order to meet the regulations of the money-tempered system. It should be noted that according to the European Commission Directive No. 2019/1153 has been accessed to registers of bank accounts so that the law enforcement authorities investigating serious crimes should also have access to the registry. However, this directive does not agree with the EEA Convention's workspace, as shown in the Article by the bill. The reference to the above points suggests that the requirement must be made clear that the purpose of the Index is restricted to certain authorities only in order to meet their obligations under law on money theft. In addition, a change of 5 mg is appropriate. Section 8. the bill so that, instead of the word 'Correate', the office will arrive ◯and that the reference will be added in order to determine which institution to implement the registry. This is to make sure that the bank account registry is established by the bill, not by Regulation. Also, of the changes suggested above no longer require access to the bank accounts in the Regulation and, therefore, a reference to this being made. This will be added to indicate that the regulations of other laws on confidentiality and confidentiality are to be taken into account, including: to make sure that the law goes beyond the financial law on confidentiality. Finally, a third number 2 mg is suggested. change is made so that the word "smooth" does not occur twice in a row. It is not a change of nature but a minor change in wording. Puts some more of this thing up to 8. The bill will be changed according to this statement by the Ministry. Other changes that the greater part suggests are technical and are not meant to have material influence. In view of all of this, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed to a special Senate document. This is signed in advance by a daughter of Harðardóttir G.. She intends to explain in a talk. Under the order of the centuries. Some of the people: Óli Björn, the son of Kárason, Brastur the Brynjar of Níelsson, the Bryndís of Bordi, the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, the Jón of Steindór, the son of Valdimarsson, Oddný G.; the daughter of Harðardóttir, in advance; Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Willum Þór, the son of Thor, the son of Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u124	Mr. President. I'm going to briefly explain my advance to this case and at the opinion of the greater part and his conclusions. He's the one I would've wanted to keep 3 g's. In the bill, the rest of the part goes for the fall away. This article states that the Rapporteur's authorization to give an exception in order to conduct a risk assessment will be canceled, i.e. of Article 3. it is assumed that the release of the exception will be performed. The reason for this is the experience of the Federal Bank and the SEC; there are unclear criteria as to what it takes to get a announcement to do so. The bill says that it is right to dismiss an advising from the law. The majority did not agree with that, and they wanted to keep this exception with these vague criteria. That's why I'm preconceived about the case, which, on the other hand, is the very best case. Clearly, we need to get out of the gray list as soon as possible and run the sleazy murder in setting clear laws and boundaries and conditions to counteract the money thefts and funding of terrorism.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u125	V.E.G. President. I recommend here to the Committee's list with a change in bill proposal to legalize annual accounts and a law on accountants and reviews, i.e. ... aboutthetransluce of a larger systematic important partner, from the Economic and Business Committee. However, the committee discussed this matter, but the bill points to a change in annual accounts and the law on accountants and reviews. First, it is suggested that the term "a unit" associated with the public interest values should be extended so that more societies considered to be nationally important fall under the definition of that concept but according to current law. Secondly, adjustments to the requirements for the content of the reports are proposed. Thirdly, it is recommended that annual accounts should be provided in annual accounts, non-employable and in open areas, published in annual accounts, and related data according to Article 109. each year's bill. A Society's advice on internal review was provided, well - supported comments and suggestions, three. A respectable president. I'm gonna slide over them like they're happening in the Committee. First, a unity related to the public interest will be made necessary to operate an independent internal review unit and to become part of its surveillance system. Second, it will be stated that the management of a global body should be undertaken by the head of the reviews department, which will be carried out by an internal review in its application. Third, it will be stated that internal reviews should regularly be made to the management and review committee to state that the head of internal reviews has the right to sit upon a board of directors where it is necessary to take part and make the comments that he appreciates. The committee considers the comments of society on internal review to be well supported in the case of the company and considers it necessary to have a closer examination in the Ministry. The commission suggests that the tips will be taken into account in the next legal review and that they will be determined in the best way to respond. Then we will discuss the application of international accounting standards. In their reviews, the Court of Accounts and the IRS laid down an obligation to apply international accounting centers for the preparation of annual accounts from the requirements set out in VIII. the law of the law on annual accounts and such obligation extended to other partners. This would further contribute to achieving the objectives of the bill, as there are more demands for information in international accounts than in the annual accounts. In addition, the change would lead to an increase in agreement between partners'income, where there could be a difference between international accounting standards and a law on annual accounts that could lead to a lack of money. If the account is to be paid in accordance with international accounting standards, it would be no later than four months after the end of a bill that would increase the accounts of the partners using the standards for a billing account. The committee believes that there may be evidence to facilitate a range of 90 gr. legal in terms of annual accounts and due to the obligation of more societies for the application of international accounting standards than is currently required. On the other hand, such separation may be difficult in the first place, and it can be apparent that a change in this respect will only take into consideration the matter. Therefore, the Committee directs the Ministry to provide this suggestion as a matter of special opinion. Re-examination of report. The Commission reviewed that there is uncertainty as to whether a year's bill is part of the year's account and whether a review of a government report is often, as we know, extremely rich and meaningful. However, there are conflicting laws on annual accounts in this regard. The committee thinks it's clear of Article 3. legal in terms of annual accounts that the Commission report is considered to be part of the annual bill under Icelandic legislation. In addition, the Committee considers the 2nd issue to be 2nd. 104. g. the bill of annual accounts should be interpreted as stating that the accountant's signature for the reporting of the Member State should not include confirmation of any other than that the report contains the relevant information under law. In other words, the confirmation of equivalent was not a validation of information. Then I come to the review of the Commission, which focuses on the input of a report in Article 2. In his review to the Committee, the IRS pointed to 2 paragraphs. The bill, the change of 66th par. The law of the year, based on Article 19. Directive 2013/34/EU, on annual accounts and on For increased clarity, the 2nd sentence would be 3.mg. The 1st portion of the law, which required that a management report include references to sums made in annual accounts, as well as further explanation, in the text of the Law. At the same time, the IRS pointed out that the final language has a 5th number of 1st mg. 2.g. The bill would be authorized to provide the information listed in the 5th will be provided in an annual account instead of a government report. To ensure transparency and clarity, it would be necessary to require that the management report be referred directly to the relevant document for application of the source. In addition, it would be reasonable for a comparable reference to information according to the 3rd and 4th paragraphs of the law. The committee agrees with these indications and suggests a change in parsity 2. The bill in this state. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be accepted and indicates the change to 2. ... whichI'm not going to read here, but that follows the opinion and is that I can afford the one I studied. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson and Oddný G. Harðardóttir participated in a meeting where the matter was settled through telecommunications. Sced Oddný G. Harðardóttir signed according to clearance at 4 mgr. 18th par. Coral regulations of regular committees. Under the order of the centuries. Some of the people: Óli Björn Jón, Jólmur the Steindór of Valdimarsson, Brabbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Oddný G.; Harðardóttir, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, Smári Mccarthy, and Willum Þór the son of Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u126	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize a change in the law of the New Creation Fund of the economy, called a requisite loan. This has to do with a Kía ◯ sceptre and innovation fund, so called. The bill suggests that we are the law on the New Creation Fund of industry, No. 61/1997, will be added on a temporary basis to stipulate the protest loans for wands and innovation companies. The bill is part of the government's actions in support of sceptres and innovations. The reviews received by the Committee included It should be noted that there may be a basis for dealing with uncertainty regarding tax treatments changing bonds and the potential impact of the protest on the suitability of enterprises to receive other forms of support, such as tax extracts, on the basis of the legislation on support of innovation companies. This was the reason the committee requested for the Ministry's position and received a memo that answered those views. Doesn't count the committee needing to react further. A paper with the bill shows that the loan will be granted by the New World Fund of industry on the basis of a special contract that the Minister will make with the fund, which includes. will be required for the interest of the loans, for their terms and treatments on the interest of the loans. The Commission emphasizes the need to make clear in such agreements the rules of distribution, minimum and maximum budgets of the tournament and interest, as well as in the agreement with specialists and parties with wide knowledge of the sceptre funding of sceptres. The terms of the agreement take into account the circumstances of the sceptre companies and will thus be the most useful option in helping promising, viable sceptre companies in a difficult situation. It is estimated to be funding the amount proposed by the bill of 500 billion. K. of Kía's founder ◯ sceptre and innovation fund in 2020. This money will be donated to the New Creation Fund of employment to finance an investment loan in cooperation with investors. The fund's agreement with the Minister will stipulate the expense of the fund of the project that pays for the effort. At this point, the level of demand for the interface will not be available, but it is important to implement the procedure as soon as possible. According to the Ministry Assessment, the magnitude of this assessment may vary from 500 to700 million. K. Commenting on a business council, there are doubting that 500 million people are involved. K. Hard work, but according to their assessment, 30◯40 companies may take advantage of the resources. The committee considers it unfortunate if you have to handle the application process, but this may have a negative impact on investors'motives for making use of the process. The Commission points out that there is a need to reevaluate the measures taken to reveal that there will be a higher demand for viable sceptres and innovations than expected and a reason to provide additional funds for the project. A respectable president. Here I can inform you that this was a matter of conversation on the committee. I think I can absolutely say that the decision would work out as it was supposed to be. How sad it would be if the demand became so that it could not be met, and it would really have to be cut down if the masses became such a one as is known as pro found in the opinion I read. It was originally estimated to be at the lower limit of measures, 500 million. K. The case was addressed where the legal rights are at the table. The budget board. Where this common understanding and wish is what it is. The economic and business committee has been able to deal with this in the past. The legal committee and the decision to meet the views that are so clearly presented in a committee's list. The Economic and Business Committee will meet the upper limit. It is wish that this resource will provide what it needs to do in the circumstances in which we live today, where it is not possible to provide an injection and support to the companies who truly create new things, hopefully for the most and for the future. This is exactly where a special support is offered to the wand and innovation company in the form of the counter-cutture. It's a well - known channel. Among other activities that governments have taken into account, and which can directly or indirectly benefit from the companies to which this bill is involved, there are support loans and extra loans, the part-back pathway, and the financial support of pay on notice. In addition, Technologies Development Funds have been strengthened and the share of reimbursements due to investments in research and development of a significant increase in the investment rights of dierent funds in index funds have been increased, and Kía ◯ sceptre and innovation funds have been established. The Commission reviews what is stated in the Ministry's memo on the importance and support rules. Based on Council Regulation No. 651/2014. According to it, there is only an enterprise that is considered to be large, i.e. enterprises with more than 250 employees and more than 50 million euro and/or an annual balance sheet of 43 million euro. The tenet companies in this country are equal to small and medium-sized enterprises. The requirement for not own money is negative, therefore, not for the companies available to apply for a return loan according to the bill. According to all of this, the Committee suggests that the bill will be approved. Jón Valdimarsson and Oddný G. Harðardóttir sign this opinion in advance. They believe that financing of resources should take into account the upper limit of the Ministry's assessment of the potential scope of the project. It is important that the measures made in negotiations with the Organic Fund of employment are so significant that it will be useful to most viable innovations and wands that have had financing problems with the pandemic of Korean virus. A respectable president. I think it may be said that I interpreted earlier in my speech the premonition of the will that was in all intents. The Economic and Business Committee. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson signed this opinion according to a 4 mg source. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Smári Mccarthy was away from the case. Under the order of the centuries. The members of the assembly, Óli Björn Kárason, the Haraldsdóttir of Brídís, Bribbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Jón Valdimarsson, Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunnnul, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, in advance, Jón Steindór Valmorsson, and in advance, as I read before now, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and Willum Þórsson Tursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-26-128.u127	Mr. President. I bring here an opinion of a change to bill to legalize the laws of loyalty and pollution, No. 7/1998, from the Environment and Transport Committee. [ Picture on page 18] in the 129th meeting. 11:33.] We had 16 visitors and 16 envelopes. For a general explanation, it should be noted that with the bill it is suggested to reduce the number of groups of activities that are subject to a work permit or registered as per the Annex No. IV and V on loyalty and pollution laws. This is at the same time an attempt to simplify a rule or to take care of such permits and to deal with various activities. The Commission feels that monitoring should be done as close as possible, but the role of the institutions of the State is to consider harmonization and to provide assistance when necessary. This involves considering how knowledge in close to the environment is most effective, communication with governments and information sources, and employment activities living in comparable circumstances regardless of location around the country. The Commission also believes that the review should aim to increase the extent of electronic management. The Commission still feels that it is wise to make certain adjustments made by the bill, confident that a global review will be carried out and that this will be viewed by the opinions presented in the Committee's Committee on Control. This is a section entitled Changes to Annex IV. In the treatment of the case for the Commission, the loss of employment and registration terms for the 41 categories of activities combined with Annex IV and V on the loyalty and pollution laws, as agreed by Article 12. The bill. The above changes include a significant decrease in the number of types of activities requiring the publication of the work permit. So, it's registered, but it doesn't necessarily require publishing a job permit. The Environmental and Resource Ministry notes that neither the changes in the management board should be made to meet the commitment and pollution prevention laws and regulations set down, nor to change the monitoring of local health committees. This is part of the government's campaign to simplify regulations in the interests of industry and the public. The Commission agrees that the change will be simple and will increase efficiency in applying for a work permit in one place and that the work may depend on monitoring and more than one person. In this context, it will also be necessary to ensure that governments can share information on the activities involved, whether the work permit will then be subject to the approval of other organisations or not. However, it is clear that certain doubts have been raised as to whether the existing bill will achieve the government's desired objective and whether there is any basis for further working on the part of the case that is involved in the detriment of the application and registration. In a sense, the Committee may agree that in the bill report there is a need for additional logic, and further analysis and assessment of the reduction and/or pooling of classes as well as further evaluations of the target. Thus, it is unclear how the number of companies that health committees monitor on the basis of the groups proposed to destroy, what activities are involved and what are involved. In addition, it needs to ensure that legislation is in a way that enables it to meet the professional trend. As previously stated, the Committee considers that the above assessment is desirable at the current global review of commitment practices and pollution prevention laws. In view of the above, the Committee suggests a change in Article 12. The bill. In this way, the annex IV and V will be united, and we will be 12. will be added to the new category of activities, which include a total of 26 category, intended to be canceled, license and registration warrants for, with the exception of several categories; sawmills, bus waiting stations, bus waiting stations, and endpoints, and so on. I simply refer to the committee's opinion. I want to learn more about it. The Committee has instructed the Ministry to take United IV. An appendix to further progress, considering the above views and the comments that have been received on the subject. In view of the changes suggested to Article 12. The bill is ordered to remove Article 15. The bill. However, until the review of the law is completed, it is important that the government's workforce be sufficiently clear. In this way, the task exchange will be carried out according to Annex I, II, and IV which includes a list of activities to be authorised by special regulations, such as IV. the section of the law, and therefore will not allow for a switch between health committees and the EEA. The section on other similar activities says: 12th degree. The bill is also suggested that collections of undisclosed activities be removed. According to the review, the change made various functions go unsupervised, as well as an uncertainty as to whether certain functions are dependent on observation or not. The committee points out that the above changes were designed to enhance the logic of the law but suggests that, in line with the view, further work is needed to achieve that goal. So the committee suggests that museums of other comparable activities become part of IV. Annexes and points in the context of the decision to issue a license to other comparable activities is a administrative decision that is relevant to the environmental and resource ruling committee as per 65.g. the correct method of loyalty and pollution. However, the Commission aims at the Environment and Resource Ministry to consider a total review of the law. The Commission simply suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following two changes: first, a change of reference, which I do not intend to speak here, and secondly, to Article 12. put it this way: The IV budget, along with a headline, is expressed as: Work as a healthcare professional out of the license for Then there is a list of 120 types of work permit, or rather a job permit, which is then an employee's duty. I repeat, these are 120 species, which I do not intend to cross over here and refer to the committee. Well, then, that's the end of it. Hv. Councilmen Bergþór Ólason, the Guðjón of S. Brjánsson and Hanna Friðriksson Friðikksson sign this opinion in advance. Karl Gauti Hjaltason was absent from the case, so here we are updated. Councilmen of Bergþór Ólason, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, Gulänsson Brjánsson Brjánnsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Jón Gunnarsson, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Anna, and Vilhjálmur of Árnason.
