ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u1	A respectable president. I find it appropriate and indeed necessary to mention the fact that today, November 25, is an international day of conflict against sexual violence. Today is an important reminder that we still have a long way to go when it comes to eliminating the grave ills of our society, much less globally. According to the World Health Organization, every third person becomes physically or sexually abused throughout the world, usually in close relationships. The fact is, in the middle of a pandemic, there have been more reports in this country about domestic violence this year than at the same time during the past three years. Last three years, Mr. President. UN Women have pointed out the fact that many women and girls around the world are confined to their violent homes because of their meeting restrictions and outposts. At the same time, funding has been directed from the instruments and support services for victims of violence. This is a very serious situation, a respectable president, who will not be ignored. I'm sorry, but sexual violence is a clean, clear dark side of Covid-19. This wave of violence is nothing more than a disaster. The long - term consequences of such a situation are obvious and must deserve much attention on our part here at the General Assembly. It must be focused on installing a special package of measures to prevent long-term sequelae. Here at a council, people will be talking about freedom. So it must be pointed out that we do everything within our power to protect women's freedom to avoid the effects of violence.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u2	President wants to say something. A senator, today's day is important; in fact, he had thought about doing so in opening words, but it was passing. I think it's the day, like the day. A senator mentions, gives us reason to meditate on the more serious issues, the massive lesions involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u3	A respectable president. Don't you think it's time to figure out the right thing to do? Why do we carry on initials and also accept the amount of money for a person who is not only under poverty standards but who is very poor? The government considers an individual to be able to live on e.g. 83,233 k. every month and in the form of birth strength, if left out of the labour market or in less than 25% work. A person can't live in Iceland off that amount for about a week, much less a month, and not a person giving birth to a baby. The level of birth during the full study period should never be lower than 190,47 k. every month, birthorlof in 25◯40% should never be less than 137,638 k. per month. A working person in a 503/4,1100% job never exceeds 600,000 bucks, and never less than 184,190 k. And all of these are tax figures. The largest pension wage is about 2 60,000 dollars. 90% of this amount is given at a month before taxation and if you are in poor housing. Unemployed, $300,000. minimum wage is 350,000, artists have more than 400,000. In what reward and in what discriminatory fog are those who create such an unjust system, some of which are good while others are condemned to live in a very poor way? What's the right forward? Why does the government not want to calculate the right process? What is wrong with the soul condition of those who can bring about and maintain such a conflicting injustice regarding the development of people? Is it not the time to stop this injustice, to make sure that right forward is found, and that no one needs to starve, toil, or toil in a poverty trap anymore, let alone be in desperate straits? Let's set up our humanity here at the council, and let's straighten this out, for something else is a disgrace to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u4	Mr. President. Today, there are familiar colors on the warnings of the Weather Room, orange warnings in many parts of the country. At the same time, we're in a position that I honestly can't believe we're in, a position that was perfectly predictable and a position that should have been reacted long ago. Tomorrow and Friday we'll be in a position not to have a rescue chopper in this country. On top of this, because of the cumulative maintenance needs, only one rescue chopper will be available, at least Until Christmas. This is simply not supposed to happen, Mr. President, and much is the responsibility of the government. There should not be any way that the system is not there when we need it. There is nothing to justify the lack of rescue choppers. Last year, the National Guard had about 280 calls, two thirds of which were due to serious accidents or illnesses and one third to rescue operations. That means there's a 63% chance of calling in the next two days. This is not acceptable, and it calls for a general talk about how we stand in the country's public defenses. We live in a rural land with numerous mountain roads. We live in a sea - fishing country, and if it should be well, we should have at least Three choppers ready. Then we need to ask ourselves, " Is it normal for the whole response system to be located in the capital area to be carefully examined to see if it was best to distribute the helicopters through the country to shorten their time of response? ' The irony of fate may be called that tonight the first storm is warned. No doubt, the Weather Service warnings have caused concern for the many survivors of a storm in the last winter, fearing the worst. The situation is simple, Mr. President. It's not just about purchases and terms. This is so serious. The minister has to work out a solution for this case, no later than now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u5	Mr. President. A major step in equality was set in Iceland in the year 2000 when the then social minister and senator of the Ministry, Páll Pétursson, proposed a bill of changes in maternity, which was aimed at equalizing the right of parents to take birth vacations. The goal of the law was to provide a child with both father and mother and to allow parents to coordinate family and professional life. It was a revolution back then, and Iceland was the first country in the world to go that way. As a candidate, I am very proud to stand here and review this story because she shows how well-endowed the Agency has been through the years, especially in the field of social and equality. Yesterday, there was a very good discussion about the bill of the current social and child - care minister, Ásmundur Einar Daðason's son, whose bill is about changing the current law. Much work has been done in this revision since 2019. The main changes proposed in the bill are prolongation of the birth Oralfs for 12 months. It was a big day for us. Each parent's private rights will be six months, but parents will be permitted to hand over one month between each parent and the other. Thus, one parent can take a maternity tube for seven months and the other five months. There are some opinions in this matter yesterday, but the matter is up to date. The welfare committee. I could hear no better than that all members of the council were satisfied with the changes, but it can be assumed that individual implementations will be possible to change.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u6	V.E.G. President. All of us can agree that our children are the most important members of the community. It's a pleasure to see a case from the highest. Department of Social Affairs and Child Affairs will appear as subject to their affairs. I want, for example. For families in the lower part of the income distribution, there is a scholarship to sports and leisure. Today, parents of children who live in homes where the total household income is on average below 740,000 dollars. in a month, between March and July, we have 45,000 bucks. the strength of each child. We're supposed to hold all our children. This is a very important step in equality and prevention. You see, these lawsuits are very thoughtful of us progressives. V.E.G. President. Yesterday was a happy day in family and equality, as the above - mentioned minister spoke for the bill of birthstorm. It is based on the bill of Páll the son of Pétursson from the year 2000 onward. That bill is undoubtedly one of the most progressive things that have been done in domestic affairs in Iceland. The independence right of fathers is crucial to domestic equality. Now it is suggested that the right of parents be as independent. For ways of dealing with the needs of children who do not have two parents, it is sought. This will strengthen the support of equality, for despite worldwide equality, we are not close to an acceptable location. Let us not think that it is safe to relax. I'm afraid not. No matter what their gender, we must remain firm, for equality is for all our children. I feel that Páll's late son Pétursson of the year 2000 is as relevant today as he is today, and I would like to quote them by permission of a president: ▪ I think it's a great step toward harmonizing family and professional life. This is a very balanced and family - minded matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u7	Mr. President. The successful response to the disease prevention and the general population has resulted in a rapid decline in the number of chronic viral infections. This is a cause for joy, and hopefully this will result in long - term success. It has been thrilling to observe how the land hospital and their staff have coped with the pressures. However, now the storm is smoldering in old acquaintances, slants, and cuts. One of the unique features of this government is unrecounted growth, a race without custody, some would say. Increased government spending may not always be bad, on the contrary, but it needs to follow policy. There need to be goals, other than Iceland record in the state budget. A general cost analysis of public service is also quite important to bring together a reasonable amount of money and good service. The land hospital is now faced with the need to tighten the waistline because of an uplift from 2017 to less than 4 billion. This year's predictable tail is not included, although governments have promised to put Covid costs outside the parentheses. One part of the problem, according to the chairman of the General Assembly Committee, was contacted by doctors and nurses in the nursing business. How amazing it is that governments have not made arrangements to meet their additional expenses! It has been noted that the savings could be achieved by changes in organization and shifts. I find it appropriate to remind the government before they start to count birds in hand that the governor of the Land Hospital is already waiting to meet the requirements of newly developed agreements for a change in work time without a loss of service or practical management. The responsibility of the governor of the Land Hospital is within the budget decided by the General Assembly, to be understood by the U.S.A. The Minister of Health, so I'll quote it, by permission of the President. Sounds to me like a description of a minister without responsibility. The health secretary's message is natural that services to patients should not be cut down. [[The president calls.]] But what? For example, how should a prolonged waiting list be processed for service or for use by oncological analysis? [[The president calls.]] Without practical means, there is hope for impaired service only; hopes. [[The president calls.]] If the only policy is to continue the state of the highest level of health care, primarily by moving even more under state management, then the couple will continue to be with us like the shadow. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u8	The president encourages you. Senators to stay at least in extreme numbers, we meet the time limit. It is not acceptable for humans to pass more than 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u9	Mr. President. This afternoon, there is a planned meeting in an Air Force dispute at the D.A. and the State. If he fails, there will be no rescue choppers available from midnight tonight. This is naturally grave and intolerable, and it will not be the least of the safety of sailors and those who have far away if anything happens. Amazingly, in this position a minister of judicial matters chooses to appear and declares that he is questioning the right to strike those involved. If there was a doubt, why didn't he treat a strike? Why, then, did he not appear at the outset? Is this a good message into this delicate debate that is now critical? I don't think so. Mr. President. It seems that Iceland's government, the one who is now seated, puts forth great effort to cram against the unions in the foregrounds of the struggle, e.g. to Covid. Not long ago, nurses agreed to an agreement, with long sorrows, and with little enthusiasm. Not long ago, contracts were finally reached by police officers. They were ignored for months, perhaps because they do not have a right to strike. Compulsory midwives are now ignored, and reports show that expert physicians who are operating independently are out of agreement. There is no end to the way this government treats people who are in the open at the most important time. This is intolerable, Mr. President, and the government will have to step up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u10	A respectable president. During the International Day of Sexual Violence in 2020, we strongly demand that a group of women now experience violence simply because they are more at home. The home is no sanctuary but a place of danger. During the discussion, however, this violence is so intertwined with Covid-19 that after the pandemic, the problem might simply disappear. Of course, domestic violence did not arise because of Covid-19; therefore, it must not be taken lightly that the doer's work is eliminated by a better rule. I am deeply concerned that this is a heavy social consequence of this condition, a consequence that could survive without action. Iceland is at the top of the World Economics Council's list of gender equality as it can and should be proud. Yet, the Icelandic world champions in equality have only experienced a woman in the office of a president once, the prime minister twice. Still, the proportion of the sexes has not been equal in the council. Is it just by chance that it is, or does it have the position of equality? Today, the government of certain governments is on hand, attacking the rights of women. There are ideal circumstances to weaken human rights when the attention of a pandemic is severe economic crisis. A recent discussion of pregnancy rupture at the General Assembly was relapsed. A discussion of the circumstances of women who have to feed after a 20 - week waste, after the waste, brought sad news, was cruel to the bitter grief. Violence is the most vivid form of gender equality in the community. But the facts that I mentioned earlier, about the status of women, are all holding hands. Active equality is the answer to violence and the solution. Just as justice has a positive effect on the economy, on law and right, and on society. [[The president calls.]] Our success in equality was not just achieved in time. Time didn't bring us here either. These changes were achieved by struggle, and we need to continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u11	Mr. President. I think it's right to take up a discussion of what's best in this country. This has often come in the news, and usually in the news from the world's greatest insurrections and conflicts. It may seem that the term has a negative meaning for most people, or for all, Iceland. I'm going to think about what has been called curfew. I'm going to avoid talking about the bill itself, Mr. President, about the change in CDC to the highest level. A health minister recommends and will be on the program later today. This is a new resort of absolute innovation. A curfew is defined as a prohibition against going outside a home or going no farther from a home than a set distance, such as at a designated 24 hour period. Such measures have never been used in this country and have not been used in any of the rest of the northern countries. What's the need, and what's wrong? How have we handled the measures used; meeting bans, masks, distance marks, closures of job drivers that carry a risk of infection, the maximum number of recommendations that may be met, and the number of recommendations that have been highly respected? It's just been going great. With the help of these recommendations and kindly and logical recommendations, infections have been repeated. Why this? To have this remedy ready? Mr. President. If such measures were necessary, it would likely be because people ignored all recommendations. How are we in a position to carry out them with so little law enforcement force that we have seen? We are a small people, Mr. President, 350,000 people. We have not needed such measures, perhaps such measures have been made. We mean in large millions of cities. Why are we filming this here? I have to say, it's just a mystery to me. As far as I'm concerned, if there's a legal solution in Icelandic law, there's a lot more discussion in the community than there's ever been. [[The president calls.]] Is this in harmony with social attitudes?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u12	Mr. President. A professional health - care committee has been discussing exporting unexplored fish. We sent a few questions to five advisers less than a year ago and requested that there be an assessment of how this would affect our work in this country and in the economy. The export of unexplored fish has doubled between 2017 and 2019 C.E., causing a tremendous quantity of value. The Ministry answered these questions, and we are considering these answers on the job committee. Of course, there is concern about what is going on there, and this, of course, has a major impact on the ability of SMEs to obtain the raw materials of markets. This affects jobs in the country and currency in this country. We continue to discuss these matters on a job committee, and we will follow up on what we can do to cope with the export of unsurpassed fish. It is noteworthy that there are agency agencies in the capital area to help buy from the markets and move to other countries, where there is even a state concentration and salary lower than here, and the raw materials are not available to national authorities. On the contrary, on the contrary, we agree that these matters need to be considered much better. We can't, I can't talk about it in the present situation, when we're trying to protect jobs and valuables, let it be unconcerned without responding. The government has to take a real, serious look at this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u13	President. Can the financial system be green? Yeah, I'm sure you are. I'm going to cut the same knees I've done before and discuss whether we're not going to make better use of the state's holding on banks. The financial system itself is already developing to take into account more factors than just loaning money, that is, the mind of carbon equations, and, in particular, lending to such activities. We see this in the Norwegian investment bank and elsewhere, and we see movement in many parts of the world, toward creditors also considering the financial system on these terms. It also applies to Iceland's Secret Bank. While doing our important work here, such as in many parts of the world where the day's work is being carried out, we may forget a little about those who are important and big today. Then we may forget the major challenge of climate, which we all have to deal with. That's where we all need hands on deck. There we need to make good use of all the tools we have as a community. Its financial system is so important. That's why I've been speaking in speech and literature, and before in this sermon, President, that we use the position that exists in the holding of the financial system. We must not be afraid to look in a completely new way at how we plan matters there. We could have an investment bank in the climate, we could divide up the current banks that would be particularly innovations toward climate production and action in every way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u14	A respectable president. After three days, at least nine months have passed since the first Covid incident was detected in Iceland, nine months. We've been through a giant wave, the third wave of the outbreak. Right from the beginning, a month before the first incident was detected in this country, I stood on this talk chair to ask the government how they were going to react to a potential pandemic crown virus that seemed to be in progress. In fact, you've had little to hear, at least in these first few months, ridicule and ridicule. A man has even been placed in the starlight of all the people of the country and saluted down like a bit of an idiot. But I'm going to say that if I had been hired, like one of our nice philanthropists and our good friend, Kári Stefánsson, would've said, we wouldn't be dealing with a mask, a distance limit, a retirement scholarship, and hundreds of billions of dollars. Our system and infrastructure would run smoothly. This is not the place where we would be isolateing old people and high - risk groups. This is not where we would be wondering if we needed to close schools. Here, we would have simply acknowledged our unique status, some 370,000 people from the North Sea. We could have closed the border and stopped this virus from rolling around here, which is a witness, in the community. We could have chosen our own traffic around the border that we would have taken and thought necessary. But what is the outcome? The outcome is that we are now measuring most of Europe's infection, thank God. It's been a long time since we were elderly because we were more than proportional with most cases in Europe. But now there's a different, more dignified president. I ask: Are we now waiting for this to drop a little bit so that we can start letting it back in, or are we going to make sure that we can stick to the holy Christmas together? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u15	Mr. President. RUBER News reported this morning that Scotland had become the first country in the world to agree with the law that tampons, tampons, and other frequent products will be always available to all who need them. Health authorities and rural areas should ensure that the law is carried out. Monica Lennon, a member of the Scottish Labour Party, has been fighting for this for a long time, pointing out what has been called frequent, that a number of Scottish women cannot afford to spend on average 1,500 bucks. each month in menstrual products, and according to surveys, about a quarter of young people have found it difficult to obtain longer or shorter periods of menstrual products in Scotland. Two 14-year-olds, Anna María Allawawi Sonde and the Saga of María Sæþórsdóttir, sent a report on the communication of the states called, related to the next year's financial bill. In the review, they point out the importance of menstrual life, especially for the little ones of money; that either young people are discriminated against by their parents'economic situation or that unreasonable demands are made to spend the little money they have in necessary products, such as menstrual products. Because frequent products are as important as toilet paper, they should have equal access. Haemorrhages do not invite ahead, and it is extremely important to have frequent products in the room, especially in schools and social centers where young people are. They also suggest that the tax will be taken away from frequent products. Mr. President. Let us follow the example of Scots in these matters and make sure that modern - day products are available to all who need them. And they also listen to Anna María and María's Saga and their call for free menstrual access.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u16	A respectable president. We're ready. This is the motto of the National Guard, which will appear on the screen when entering her homepage - except today and tomorrow, must be added starting at midnight tonight. Then the last chopper will be killed and no one will be available for the next two days. I guess this is the only emergency phone in the world, with the search and rescuers of people in danger of life, with the answer: No, unfortunately, it's closed because of work problems? It's on the end, and it's gonna be shut right at the time of the storm. For example, a helicopter may be the only means to save lives in my hometown, if this happened at once in the night, not to mention the safety of sailors at sea. But after nine hours, the answer takes place: No, unfortunately, it's closed, no helicopters available. The creature's helicopter goes on the average of 21 calls a month. Of these, there are seven or ten at sea or up to the highlands where others cannot be saved. Of course, that this precise service, search and rescue, is totally unacceptable. It must be made clear to the government that they will strike this knot, if not by contracts by midnight law. Life can be at stake, and the responsibility of those who have handled this situation is great.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u17	A respectable president. At a meeting of the budget board this morning, the Land Hospital's headquarters was reviewed, and as always, the answers to the Land Hospital were very clear and very transparent. The Lands Hospital of a University Hospital is dealing with a battle between 2018 and 2018, which, according to the Minister's annual report, is unexplained, which is not acceptable based on official financial legislation. However, according to local hospital reports, they are clear and clear, and the Ministry knows exactly what they are. The Hall explained mainly by design problems and the lack of facilities for those willing to graduate, a so - called efflux problem. This is a well - known and established problem, such as the position of health care professionals, which repeats the procedure. That's a known problem. Another factor that explains the problem and is a little more interesting, if you can put it that way, is due to a miscalculation in collective agreements. After contracts are made, there is evidence that the Ministry of finance underestimates the cost of fulfilling them. It's hidden in place if the truth is true. It will therefore be the task of soon - to consider the matter very carefully, for if it is true, it is very serious that there are hideable standards for institutions in such calculations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u18	V.E.G. President. As we request this report, it is considered necessary to gain a certain perspective on national mental - health services, as well as to help clarify what might be done and what needs to be improved. This is never the kind of assessment. In addition, we are responding to the pleas of the many who have called for such an assessment in the seminary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u19	Mr. President. I welcome this request. True, this information is presented, at least The most important, all of them for and who have been doing it for a long time. But I rejoice because I hope that when the report is completed and confirms all that we do in Correction and some other government council members have held all this ideal period, they will be council members at the petition, nine members of the Independence Party, hopefully feeling the courage and courage to support the many suggestions we have offered. I'm optimistic, especially because among the importers here, people are so confused that it can't be just -- What was it again? - political show.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u20	A respectable president. Of course, I support this request, but I'd also like to remind the movers that an excellent tool to achieve changes is done by the government. All these same senators support the government. However, in the three years they have not even supported one suggestion that has come from us in wood to solve the waiting list problem in the cooperation of government and independent healthcare providers, they have decided on all suggestions. But, of course, I will support the proposal and this request and make sure that it will not be placed under a seat like some governmental groups are tamed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u21	Mr. President. I come up here to propose to the members of the Management Board to support the changes we made in the smaller section of the Committee to raise the payment rate to 35%. It was interesting to listen to the highest. Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, president of the Agency, talks about the importance of raising money on film production in the country. The exact same thing here. We're talking about a possible 11.8 million. K. increase per year, however, this can provide a number of jobs and a lot of currency for the country. So I ask you to support this good deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u22	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u23	President. I want to say something. paritaprevir Albertína the Friðbjörg of Elis Elíasdóttir on the importance of raising, as required by the change in the memory of the section, a remuneration rate to 35%. That should have really been done about six months ago. Similarly, it should have been done for filmmaking, such as why. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flanders, Elíasdóttir of Elias, came in. At least I encourage the government. to perform these actions immediately, it is acceptable to accept the changes made in the memory of the part.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u24	A respectable president. I strongly agree with this adjustment proposal, and I would like to agree with the encouragement to the administrative sector presented here. It should not matter where good things come from. Governments and ministers are already talking about, certainly the right and the good change in the movie industry and the remuneration art. It's the same here. Let's go up to 35% and we'll be a little ahead. Let's not always follow. Let us look with insight and forethought, and try to be one first. I say yes to this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u25	[[Repeat.]] No. President has already declared the finals. [[Take it up: Redo the vote.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u26	They're asking to repeat the vote. It must be possible to do so now as often before. Something else is very strange.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u27	It is now that when a vote has been made and there are no technical reasons why it has been conducted not to alter the result, it is not the meaning. [[Up front.]] This was a full part of the vote, so the president believes that there is no basis for accepting it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u28	It's a tradition for President...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u29	The president does not reason on such things.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u30	Mr. President. As I studied the matter well last week, we support the Council of the Committee's Council and the case, since this is taking steps in the right direction and with important support for garden farmers. We need to go far and try to get more and more steps in order to build the production of horticultures on a much larger scale than we have seen so far. This requires that we determine how we are going to achieve more intensive domestic gardening and, to the extent that we are going to have to balance the distribution costs of electricity. Mr. President. We need to give more intensive support to gardening, vegetable production, and innovation in food production. Although the Group of Congress will vote for this matter, we need to take the case back together and take a much larger and more specific step in the development of agriculture on the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u31	A respectable president. We'll vote for a bill to correct the change in agricultural products. The main objective of the bill is to agree on the change in the contract of the work of the Agency's horticultural products as a marine eco-efficiency minister, financial and economic minister, Iceland's Farmate Association and Parking Prayer Association signed in May. The meeting procedure consists of a review of the contract on the working conditions of the 19 February 2016 product manufacturer's gardening products. At the next review of the Treaty in 2020, the objective is to increase the production of Icelandic vegetables by 25%. Increased funds will be placed in the garden agreement at 200 billion. K. In a year they will be useful, including to direct repairs due to electrical purchases, climate action, development projects and to a greater variety of vegetables in this country. A respectable president. These laws are a good way. Good start.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u32	A respectable president. Yeah, I'm on this one. This is an important step, in my opinion, in the modern world of agriculture. But in handling matters in a professional committee, it was also found that the steps are far too small to face today. The consumption habits of our Icelanders have changed dramatically, especially in these last weeks, weight, and months. In a sense, this is being taken into account, not a step that is large enough. I think a review of the agricultural contracts on this part of 2023 describes a lack of ambition. We're supposed to be able to react quickly, we have a government like that. We are to be more efficient in behalf of consumers and farmers and producers, gardening, gardening, and vegetables.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u33	Mr. President. Everyone is concerned about flight security. Everyone cares about mental health. Yet, there have been concerns about this matter that under certain circumstances, people who need help have been disturbed by fear of loss, loss of income, or so forth. That would be very bad. Fear of this and hope that when it comes to legalization, the Porta council will stay behind this vote, but we hope that the objective will still be met because it is important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u34	Mr. President. In such a deep crisis, there is a major danger of underwork. That's kind of the advice of all experts. It is also recommended that the state takes a long time to pay down Covid Palace. The United States has called for a much better injection than an investment campaign of 1% of land production, which is the campaign of this government, if an effort is required. This bill violates the strict financial rules but only temporary. We support decontamination, but we want to keep the rules off for a much more long time than here is. There may also be no stopping of the debt after four years as planned. We may have to owe them to run hospitals, schools, or diplomacy. But even that seems to be too much for this government. Mr. President. We want a government that will soften this blow for longer than this target.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u35	President. We support this bill because these are bad rules. It's nice to take out bad rules even if it's only temporary. We would like to suggest that at the time of freezing, something better is brought up, for rules like these are working only when there is economic growth, not when it is collapse. That's not a very credible rule. The rules should be credible. In fact, there are reasons why there should be rules. If they are to be in effect, they must also work when it is an economic crisis.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u36	Mr. President. The central category agrees that public funds play a key role in the economic response to the high economic conditions the pandemic has brought on the Icelandic economy. Therefore, there is a need to replace the absolute financial laws of the law so that we can make the most of this important economy we have under our present circumstances. The central category, however, stresses that the rules must not reduce the capacity of state funds to handle their assignments and serious challenges. That's why the Central Party supports this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u37	A respectable president. The debate presented here, the fact that this bill is before the council, shows how impressively significant has been made in the council on these topics. In the past, this discussion would not have had to take place, so there would have been no rules to discuss. We have set firm standards, and when we cannot fulfill them, we need to discuss that position. This is very healthy and it's good for us to go through it. Here we go, for example. Shows that some are moving on with the policy of talking to the people of the country as if it's no problem to collect a few hundred billion more on the 600 that will be added this and the next year, that it's a long - term economic policy. Therefore, there will be good reason for such matters to come in, in fact, for months to come and years to discuss whether it is important to cover expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u38	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct the conversion of disease laws, No. 19/1997. September 14th. I ordered a group of workmen who were assigned to write the bill to legalize the conversion of disease protection laws in order to explain the laws of the Law on official disease prevention measures based on the experience with the pandemic SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes the disease Covid-19. The staff appointed representatives of the main parties involved in the administration of public resources. This group was made up of members of the Ministry of Health, the office of the Attorney General, the Department of Justice, the Surgeons, Land Hospital, the Health Care of the capital, and the office of the State Marshals. On August 26, 2000. In agreement with the ones listed here, the prime minister requested that Páll Hreinsson agree to consider the authority of a surgeon and health minister to the official Precautions in relation to the registered and unscheduled principles of administrative and human rights in the Constitutions and international agreements. It was requested that Dr. Páll Hreinsson make the original proposal for a change in law or rules as necessary. On September 20, he returned his point of opinion and was put to work as a basis for the work force, as well as for the general experience in this country due to the pandemic of SARS-CoV-2. The bill I recommend here today is made by a team of the above. A respectable president. The objective of the bill is to better explain the resources available to the health care professional and health - care providers because of the risk of travel to or from Iceland within the country and the risk of transmission of infection by individuals. The bill is aimed at ensuring a better degree of rights protected from a constitution by reading even more clearly than is currently being carried out by law on which measures can be taken to impair these rights, in any case and in relation to the moderate court order. Thus, the aim is to ensure that such impairments will be supported by an acceptable legal authority and only done for the sake of public interest or for the protection of health or the rights of others. It is important that the sources of disease - control laws to compromise rights, in accordance with the Constitution and the European Convention of Human Rights, have the purpose of ensuring the life and health of people who are the most important protection in the community, who are protected by the Constitution and the European Convention of Human Rights. At the same time, governments have felt that if it is realized that there is a direct and predictable threat, it is a responsibility to handle governmental laws for the protection of people's lives and health. On the above-mentioned opinion. In fact, Dr. Páll's son Hreinsson, the son of Cleanser, says: "I am Jehovah. " that publicized control measures can limit human rights protected by the rights of the Constitution. It refers mainly to 66th and 67th, 71th, 73, and 75th. The constitution that particularly concerns the right to not be deprived of freedom except by laws on privacy and employment freedom. They also state that in some cases such limitations are sufficient to support the established laws in order to qualify them as authorized. It also states that in other cases they must be in the interests of public interest, in the protection of health, or in the rights of others in order to be allowed. Finally, in the opinion of the public interest in defending oneself from disease epidemics for the protection of life and human health, they are considered to be subject to the terms of the Convention of Human Rights, such as 1 mg. 67. ...of deportation, restrictions on privacy, home and family that appear in 71. ...and restrictions on employment freedom, which appear in the 75th paragraph. The constitution. The same can be said of the terms of the European Convention on Human Rights. Then the objective of the bill is to explain more fully the sources that governments have for government protection, in accordance with the requirements of the legal principle and the rules of law against the Constitution. A respectable president. Interpretation laws date 1997. I think we can say that they were generally good at the current pandemic. However, at this point it is considered necessary to sharpen certain aspects of the law. This does not mean, however, that the measures taken to date have not been sufficiently based on law. In Páll's earlier opinion of the Hreinsson son, he applies the European Court of Human Rights and then deals with the authority of the Ministers, as expressed in current disease laws. The project then states: It appears that the health minister has sufficient legal authority to set the burden of alcohol control in a regulations such as Regulation No. 800/2020. On the other hand, the implementation of the preventive measures must take into account the interests of these matters, the general regulations of the administration of the administration, and especially the average rule. The study concluded that after testing the diastolic tolerance of existing disease laws in the Covid-19 pandemic, it is normal for the cumulative experience to be weighed and assessed and the necessary changes to the law and to correct the key problems of the law immediately, including the following: to ensure that all necessary authority is given by the competent authorities. This bill responds to these comments, especially by changes in IV. the chapter of the Law on Public Disease Control. The bill suggests that there is a specific set of explanations involved in the law. It is considered necessary to suggest this, since such provisions are not contained in current legislation. Thus, the main terms of the law are not clearly defined as those in the current law, such as official preventive measures, such as the ban on meeting. Then it is suggested that instead of being addressed in the Law to the superior health care professionals, the concept of the district doctors is used. It will also be explained in the laws of regional disease prevention. A change in the role of a disease prevention team is proposed to make it clear that the modulation policies in the cross-cutting process and its role did not overlap with the role of a DG. It is suggested that the duties of a person suspected of having an infectious disease be clearly determined by a doctor. It is suggested that if a physician suspects that a person may have an infectious disease, i.e. if infested with such suspicion, it is necessary to comply with the instructions for use of disinfectants, including regulations on the grounds of the law to prevent the transmission of infection to other persons. These are proposed to make changes to Article 12. The law that deals with government control measures due to the risk of disease within the country. It is suggested that the terms of the infestation, the discontinuation of job drivers, and the curfew be part of public control programs. Then changes are proposed in a clear way to coordinate the implementation of the disease prevention and the law of No. 90/2018, character protection and the processing of personal data. In this context, it should be noted that only curfews are not considered to be due to the current premium protection measures. As noted in the opinion of Dr. Páll, the son of Hreinsson is infected with milder measures of decomposition and has been subjected to that concept. If the bill is legal, both these terms will be used, infected with individuals, but underdeveloped against areas or a large group of people. At that time, the retirement of the job has been by local law. It's up to you in 1 1. the bill that the principles of the World Health Organization that deal with the treatment of preventative measures that can be taken against tourists during their arrivals and that the deportation between countries will be specifically taken into account in the law. The World Health Organization has already been sent to governments for publication and can be expected to be formally published in their C department in the following days or weeks. There's been some changes in 14th paragraph. The law of the law that says action is due to the risk of transmission of infection by individuals. The purpose of the change is to make clear in the law that it takes care of both infected and suspected individuals. It has been thought to result in conformity in the explanation of the law, but it is better to conclude that it is unambiguous in the law itself. At the same time, the treatment for isolation and disinfection is further explained. Then you will be presented with a change of 15. The law that deals with handling matters contrary to his will has been made to be insulation or forged before the court. Then two new laws are proposed to be added to the Law. This is about investigation, judges'decrees, and legal decisions on isolation or infestation. Finally, a change of the law's license to pay for arrangements for tourists is proposed. It suggests that in accordance with the WHO guidelines, there will generally not be a fee for measures for tourists unless they are of benefit to them. In exceptional cases, such measures will be available, although they are not for the benefit of tourists. A respectable president. The bill made plans for legalization and initial assessment of the effects of legislation were published by the government on October 7th. An extension was given to submit a review to October 21. There was no review of law-making plans, no initial assessment of effects. A decision was made not to reveal that the bill of government consultation as per local policy, but the reason particularly is that it was important to speed up the bill's contribution as if it were possible to address and discuss at the General Meeting as soon as possible. The evaluation of the bill's impact on the state funds has been carried out and is not expected to affect the spending side of the state's budget. A respectable president. I have now explained the fundamental factors of the bill and allow it to be suggested after the 1st. Pointed to why. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u39	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the presentation of these important changes to the treatment laws. I have a few short questions. I have one minute to go. First of all, I'd like to ask the highest. As a minister, there was no consultation with the bill, so there was no consultation. I must assume that in the group appointed to handle this case, there was no one from a disease prevention site. However, the current disease control laws say in 1 mg. 6th ... withauthority of the President's permission: And seven men shall be set by the king's servant, a rod of disease, for four years. There should be experts in the field of infectious diseases, and some of the factors mentioned there. That is what the Bible says in Leviticus. mgUnable to The environment of the environment, including the environment of the environment, is a major concern in preventing transmission of infectious diseases, which should be used by the health authorities to advise on how to prevent transmission of infectious diseases. But according to the information I have received, this bill and nothing in it has been brought under the protection. [[The president calls.]] I wondered: " Why is it that this job has a disease prevention habit? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. As mentioned in my case earlier and in my history, it was my opinion that the case was best handled as early as possible to the Generals for discussion. It's the right place for the case. It had been called on that the presence of the Generals would be clearer and more decisive for the global treatment program. It is the right and only facility for the processing of the bills and legislation according to a constitution. So it was my food. I got it. I got it. A senator who is the head of a welfare committee to take good care of the procedure with the reviewers who will likely promote their comments to a well - being committee in the political process and, including the application of the offense.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u41	Mr. President. I'd like to reiterate my question to the highest level. Minister: Why was there no consultation with the disease prevention, which should be counselled according to the law? And why has the disease prevention really been completely confined to the current measures? A little consultation has been made with preventative measures, some introductions have been made. I wondered if these changes in law do not belong to the law. Another question that I would like to ask about the bill is, first of all, if it is considered on the basis of a law being added, i.e. for meeting bans, cessation of job failures and curfews, that this may be carried out under courts as far as some individual is required to be diseased, that they can be made in court decisions and put to the test for a moderate degree. It's considered to be the highest opinion. Minister? And I'd like to ask, too, because it has to do with so much personal protection, why was there no one from Peritoneal Protection in the committee involved in this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u42	A respectable president. I just want to refer to my first answer about how fast hands would have to have done this bill. We needed and wanted to base it on Páll's fine assessment of the Hreinsson of Purge, as well as on the experience we have already received by Covid-19. I expect the matter to be treated by Congress and that it will follow a review procedure and consultation with all who have access to this matter. But because of it. A member of the council specifically asks about the disease prevention, as shown in the case of two people. A senator, and it's been met by meetings with a pathologist through this process.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u43	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister, Svavarsdóttir, particularly for a permit for a minister to establish a curfew. First, I would like to ask a minister: What is the compelling need to set such burdensome rules in view of how successful we have been in helping the public to keep the epidemic down with the existing options? Would it not be more correct to wait on such burdensome provisions while there is no urgent need for them to do so? The assembly is, that, if necessary, I think, I am invited, and made to come together, and to give such authority to the minister. But what has already proved the need to have this authority in the law? Can't the public be trusted to be careful? It's been going well so far, hasn't it? Do we need to set such burdensome standards in our laws?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u44	A respectable president. Of course, it's gonna be a little bit of a race right now with this one minute. Where's new in the bill, as shown in the case of who. A senator, is a curfew. It should be noted that this is not a special interest for the Minister. This is a medical emergency, as is the general case with official protection measures. But this goes beyond those already present, so, of course, caution must be given to the application of such authority and never to resort to it except in emergency situations. Such measures have been used abroad to form in Western Europe. In contrast, such a warrant must be available in an emergency situation. It is considered that this should be prepared in a clear way by the law and that the Council sets that frame, because it is the right setting to set that frame. I emphasize that the council took a very close look at this point because it is a very sensitive source. Because they asked earlier about dealing with the Persian Protection, she read through the entire bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u45	A respectable president. I haven't felt anything to suggest that this is really necessary, considering how we've walked so far. Perhaps there is a basis for considering this later. However, I wondered if such burdensome and serious intervention in people's freedom and the authority to set a curfew is not better kept until we are out of this school. There are a number of things that I feel that I need to look into the treatment laws that I think it would be better to look into when we're not in an emergency. I'd like, for example. It is important that general or other surveillance agencies have a much better monitoring authority, a much better emergency control system than is currently in the law, but this may not be the proper time point, in the middle of the code, to be examining it. I think it's the same with authority on curfew. What is the basis for setting this authority up now that we have succeeded in solving the pandemic without it? There's a possibility that the General can set a law in one day to save fish farms and I think we can clean up a single day's law to save a curfew, if necessary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u46	A respectable president. It is this very talk that needs to take place at the moment. A well - being committee and a World Parliament are the natural right places to discuss such matters. I'd like to put it to you, though it's a administrative bill, it's very important for a single state to be a lawman like this, and especially for such burdensome decisions and the code of law that we're setting up for the Commission, which can be all kinds of things in all kinds of times. Here, however, this source is being looked forward to, not just from the present condition, the present epidemic, but possibly other disease conditions in the future, as it were. A senator points to a question, a possible poisoning, or radioactive activity, or something like that. And it was the estimation of the people that know and know, that they would do this unto me, and that I would put this here at the council, and at the battle. The welfare committee is expected to be involved in this in a material way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u47	Mr. President. I'd like to take this opportunity to ask the highest possible question. Minister only to the task force appointed by Minister. It has been observed, in the case of the minister, that, despite the fact that Peritoneal protection was not there, and I agree that it was surprising, they were consulted with a review. I would like to ask if all of the comments made by Perconte were taken into consideration in the currently existing bill. The bill shows that there has been some intervening Persian protection. made note that the use of data that has been acquired for another purpose is forbidden. It is strange that they needed to point to that afterwards, so when the bill is ahead of the staff, it is not clear enough. It calls for further questions and concerns as to whether the representatives of other groups had not had to be in this group. We're dealing with big business, huge deals in people's rights and lives. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking if a minister has not wondered about psychologists, sociologists, doctors and other sources. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Where are they in this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u48	A respectable president. A general body is the lawgiver. The Council can communicate with anyone, and it is of course very important that the Council do so. However, as discussed in my case, I felt that it was important to discuss the case as early as possible at the General Assembly. And as a conquistador, I believe that as much as possible, it should be done in that field, not necessarily with the executive authority I represent here. But because of him. A senator specifically asks about the protection of Pernon, and all the reviews of the Persian Guardians were taken into consideration, according to my information.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u49	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. In fact, I believe that it would have hurried my job if these members had been represented by the staff, that we on the World Health Committee would not now be calling for reviews. In fact, I believe that those who write this document have come to realize that something is neglected because it is rare to see directly in a paper that the public is encouraged to send reviews to the World Health Committee. That's exactly what's being done during the previous series of consultations. But I understand that there was a hurry to this, and if the answer is that it was to speed up not having these members in the staff that have prepared the bill, which is now being treated for Congress, it's just that it's the welfare committee's intention to call them in and get a review, that's just the way it is. We disagree about that process. But it's nice to know that the Persian protection ideas put themselves on this job. I think it will be very interesting to get the person I listed earlier and to hear their opinion on these matters, in view of the discussion that has taken place in the community for more than half a year and the experience we have from the consequences of invasive procedures, such as preventative measures on people's lives and health. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u50	A respectable president. Once again, it's only my health minister's assessment at this point that it is proper to speed up the approach of Generalis to the matter. It could have been a different assessment and a longer consultation in earlier stages. But those who assigned the bill group were the ones directly involved in the operation, i.e. Marshal, surgeon general's office, D.C. surgeon, Justice Department and Health Organization, etc. That's right and normal, and I think we're gonna do it. A senator must agree that it is important for the public to discuss this frame of law. However, it is true that in the previous comments made by other members of Congress, it is also a good reason to revise the entire legal framework when the epidemic is over, as it were, when we have finished taking in, the lessons that will be learned. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u51	A respectable president. We're dealing with conjugal laws, and I'm so happy for them. The key element, of course, in this law is the authority for curfew. I'm asking the highest. Minister, because we're going to be the first ones to record this, whether it wasn't natural in the context that a minister would have this authority, but we need to seek the approval of the Generals as soon as possible to explain his point. Of course it would be much better, I suppose, and democratic in every way. We know that our greatest problem today in the third wave is infections that come from outside the country. I'm asking if the highest. Ministers believe that these new laws will give her a better chance of stopping infection into the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u52	A respectable president. We have often talked about the entrance of the Generals to these treatment provisions and have raised speculations and questions about the importance of this event. Because of what? A member of the council comes up with a particularly burdensome procedure, such as possible exits, and perhaps also the action we are taking now, I think it is important for the council to maintain it very well in their discussion. ...and then in the conference at the council Hall that it is always the project of the European Commission to conduct daily management, to make decisions that will not be tolerated on the basis of the authority established by the Parliament. Of course, it is of utmost importance that the council look to a wide range of potential situations as they look to the future as to the legal structure to be sufficient for the execution of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u53	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I can't help but agree with her, and I really hope that we do well in this matter. The welfare committee. Yet, as it is today, it does tell us that we must learn from the experience that has already come. No one wants to get back to the exact same situation, so I understand the exact source. But every time you see a warrant like that on curfew, you get kind of chills. You don't find it interesting and exciting that we'll be in the North to legalize this. It's a bit of a responsibility, and I really hope that we're up to it and we'll figure out the best way to figure this out. That would be a big help to this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u54	A respectable president. I couldn't answer a question. A senator in my previous stand-up on cross-border clearance. Actually, there is no greater evidence on the border by this change but perhaps even clearer. I agree, and I think it's very important that the council handle this matter with great responsibility. I think it's very important that the bill not be traditional political bitters, but that the council puts forth considerable effort to settle this matter as a broader solidarity. I want at least ... myhelp is to do so because there must be laws on the disease and must be maintained, regardless of the election or the government of the country at any given time. This is about life and health, which is the most important human rights for each person.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u55	A respectable president. I was going to try to get back, but it was crowded. I'm gonna start by saying that I really like this bill coming in here right now. I'll agree with the highest. A minister of this and an important matter for the council to consider. The question that I wanted to present was whether it was a reason to review with this review that the Council upheld regulations. Although the social protection laws of the local minister's home to issue regulations that severely impair individual freedom are often so, if I have understood the news correctly from our neighboring countries, that it is placed on precisely because the urgent need is that it should take effect on the first but that the coming of the council is somehow in order to confirm it in the long term. That was kind of my question, and it could possibly be the highest. Minister enter it, but at least I'll direct it to the left. well - being committees merely looking at them with their friends. Similarly, I wondered, " What is it like in neighboring lands? ' The report doesn't have much to do with it, and I think it would improve if the committee called for such information. Then I'd like to say that I think it's both possible but also a fault that we're dealing with disease control in the middle of a epidemic. Of course, we're supposed to use the assets, now we all know all kinds of words, and we can put ourselves in previously unknown steps, and I couldn't have imagined a year ago all the things that are discussed, so it's certainly possible. But the problem could also be that the next virus or the next attack, as it were, will be quite different from the one involved. So what? The welfare committee also needs to take good care of this. Finally, I just want to say that I agree with a minister in that it's done well. We've been very effective here in Iceland fighting this virus. Despite the tragic death we have faced, I believe that there have been good results. Thanks to that. This does not alter the fact that there are other side effects due to the actions we have had to take. There is something that we need to be very alert to follow, and then we too need to keep our minds focused on all the questions and not be afraid to look for ways to benefit from the procedures under which we are going.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u56	A respectable president. I appreciate your flexibility at the conference board. Hv. A senator questions the comparison with other countries. She also asks if it is not right for the Council to bring in any way in confirmation of regulations. This would really not be in harmony with our government. The legal foundation lays the basis for a Minister's Regulation in all legalities. It is then considered that this led to the Commission's giving the Commission the flexibility and the commission to complete regulations. Now, as I sat in my seat, I was going to count how many regulations have been published in this epidemic, and there are a lot of them. We have generally had one general rule and then another rule of school. In the north, the council did not arrive in that way. A senator mentions. It was, of course, that in one of the northern countries, a council authority had to be called to take advantage of these measures in general. In the early stages, the Senate had passed laws, such as our resources, and it gave us reason to work according to our standards. Of course, the council has tools. It may require information, reports, and, of course, some members of the Parliament can also offer ideas and suggestions for changing to primes. However, the council's surveillance duties by ensuring that moderate behaviour and balance are also important in the implementation of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u57	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the counter-sponsored. I understand what she's saying, and I realize that this is how our legal environment works. But I simply ponder the question, when we have regulations that severely restrict individual freedoms, whether there is a real basis for it to be done by a longer term regulations. I have to admit that my experience was the springtime when we had this fairly unexpected attack from this virus that it was only perfectly normal for the execution and immediate and immediate fulfillment of our main experts' advice. However, as we move further into this epidemic, I wondered if it would be possible to approach the project so that the council would need to give further authority. I think it's the highest. A minister is referring to Norway when she says that the Regulation was not authorized. That's exactly what I took out of the news. I'm going to point it out to you. I was interested in the approach of the Norwegians and whether they were relevant to these matters when we discussed the treatment laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u58	President. Of course, such questions are extremely important. I have to say, in this epidemic, although we are a little busy at times as we manage here in this hall, the General has shown what is happening in one case after another. Then I'm talking about the response to the epidemic, the economic measures, etc., which have been put on prime grounds, the names of the directors, and have been changed very much in the activities of the council. It is the identifying mark of the Icelandic Parliament, that it lays its mark on the bills and much more than, e.g. The sisters'meeting in the North countries where all the work has taken place earlier. I think it's exemplary that the council is very powerful and flexible and that it takes on a bit of this kind of work through the changes in the bills. As for the response to an epidemic, I agree with it. One senator, who never doubted the fact that you would talk about districts and meeting bans, etc., different from just novels or history. Now, though, it has become part of our daily lives. Now we hold our breath every morning as we wait for reports of a number of infections and how many people have been infected outside of the contagion because we know that there is a measure of locality and how much infection is still in the community and how much money we can do to relax our actions. We all know this. I would so much like to see that we have more leadership in action and could know when the vaccination will start and when it will be completed, etc., unfortunately, it is the virus that controls this timeline.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u59	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for. I agree with the premeditation, we're asked for it in all of our discussions. It's what we need for employment and society, but we're in the only place where there's a very limited face to it. - Now I remember, a respectable president, what I was about to come in on. I agree with the highest perspective. Ministers for the council and I believe the council was exemplary in discussing the case of Covid. Then perhaps at first we would view it that way, and so I viewed and, in effect, still do, that our primary role is to respond primarily through economic measures and such. Then the disease prevention was the second, they were at the top of the table. Minister where she followed our most skilled expert advice. But the point I'd like to make is whether the operation of the council now, when we have this experience, it's been nine months or so, should at some point be more specific about the whole environment as well. I agree with that with the highest. A minister for observation has been called upon to discuss with a minister, and this is of good and very important importance and good. But it is with the degree of impairment that we are putting on individual freedom. I'm in need of that, I understand that, but at the same time, I might say, " Do you need further discussions with the Lawgiver when we engage in such projects and such abuses that are supposed to last for a considerable period of time? ' Maybe that's the point, so I'll point it to what? The welfare committee. Otherwise, I thank you for this fine discussion, and I think it's important that you and I discuss these laws carefully and like the highest level. A minister comes in when you're always learning something new. Anxiety is e.g. a word that I've put my eyes in and I haven't known so far what it means, but there's always something new in this diseased world. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u60	A respectable president. I just want to say hi to the highest. Health Minister to congratulate on this bill. I support it wholeheartedly, not making any comments, but wondering at its highest point. The minister referred to, Páll's opinion of the Hreinsson of Purge, as he is drawing out the boundaries of a disease - control doctor and health minister as to what is involved in the treatment of the citizens. I have at least a few minutes. Try to link it together. First, we need to ensure that when the bill is approved that the United States is not taking it hard to deal with its citizens, who have, in fact, made double progress now on national policy measures, that it could become possible to be harmed. This is clear in Páll's view of the Hreinsson of Purge, chapter 9, on page 9. 19, That we just did not do what we could. We've been fraught with the translation and repair and identification of external regulations, which are in harmony with our international commitments. But for some reason the World Health Organization was washed up. It was approved in 2005, 15 years ago, but for some reason it has never been published in the Control Department. She has never really gained a legal value. This is a guarantee for the government of the United States and for all of us that governments will not act harshly, but the law allows them to do so. We have an excellent law code that includes our own. I'm going to pretend to be some lawyer and start teaching law in the platform - that governments can't do anything, just don't do anything, to us citizens, or to what is around them, except be authorized by the law. Government must always be authorized by law. If they are not authorized by law, they have also opened up the possibility of being harmed by others. The other thing I'm going to say in particular, just for fun, though, is that we citizens must not do anything that violates the law. Then there may be several serious consequences. I'm not gonna give a thunder talk. I had thought of referring only to Páll the Hreinsson of Cleanson's opinion to support and underline what I'm talking about in the case of the C C C C C Company and the consequences that it has now translated regulations, opinions and other such things lie in a drawer of the government without having been placed in the publication of the C C C C C State Department of the Government. I know it's Icelandic, and it's already acknowledged that the word "wolf" is used in Icelandic. And I say, it's a monster. It is strange that we have 300 regulations and an assessment by our international agreements, the EEA Convention and other such, without having published them in the C C C C C C department and at the same time done them legitimately. It's kind of amazing. That's why I'm further celebrating this bill and hoping it's just gonna work out as soon as possible. I'm not making any comment that in the middle of a epidemic it's putting in the bill curfew or anything else. We will see how we try to take different measures in the countries around us. At least we can. Thanks to ourselves and health care professionals, and only the people in general and everyone here, so to everyone, for having really taken the recommendation of our tri Systemic Systemic Systemic Systems and by showing how wonderful we are and what we are like when we stand together. It is not long since we were older on all European maps and considered to have one of the most measurable Covid infections compared to the appeal, but now we are shiningly bright and probably have some of the lowest lines of infection compared to other European countries. They are also going through such disasters now, and we see them not only in European nations but also when we look farther away. We enjoy their privilege here to be a small island in the north of the prom sea and with a good and strong disease - control that, in my opinion, could be even stronger, and I have never thought of it. I first appeared in January, a month before the first Korean virus was detected in this country, calling for how the Icelandic government was going to prepare for the disaster that seemed to be in progress. I'm not a witch, I'm not a pain in the ass, but I was called a Covid pal and a sort of idiot for having shown some kind of concern and really wanted to take responsibility and then called upon the government. Governments are to do more than just focus on the economic effects. I don't have to say just because it's natural, it's a hell of a hole and a high surfer we're sailing through right now. This does not change the fact that we might have lost dozens if not hundreds of billions if we had handled matters differently, if we had actually prevented the virus from moving in except in some exceptional situation. Of course, we could not have shut down our own subjects coming to the country, but it would have been easier to hold on to it. Of course, we could not have shut down the transfer of goods and services or anything like that. No one's talking about it. But with the measures that remain on the border, we have prevented at least About 300 variants of virus came into the country. Still, we are dealing with this epidemic and terrible death, untimely in some cases, in my opinion. That's me. I'm just that dirty in my language. We wouldn't have a close-up scholarship, we wouldn't be walking around wearing masks, there wouldn't be a 200-foot rule, and we wouldn't be stopping people from meeting, eating, playing the theater, the concerts going around and the theatres and everything and the schools and sports and everything. The only thing we'd have to face had to be the collapse of our arms would be our yellow arm, our third yellow leg in the basket, our travel service. Other than that, our community could have walked completely anointed and snorkeled only in some exceptional situation. That's where I am. I'm going back to commend the highest. Minister for this bill, but at the same time, she hears that the underlying dog is ashamed to have not stepped down more strongly in terms of preventing this virus from import. I don't want to see this virus if we can get rid of it. And we can do that, a very few scrambled in a certain place north of the prom sea. Of course, there has been no great desire to travel anywhere. Everyone's in trouble. Everyone's looking out and protecting themselves and trying their best. But our efforts vary, and we have done better than most others when we use the methods that work. That is why if we are going to cope with a new wave soon, I simply have a faint mind. I hope at least That it won't be. If I had the right to decide, which I don't, and most of them are probably terribly happy about it, we'd all be running to the store right now, preparing Christmas, and there'd be no problems and no masks and no trouble. I'm not gonna have this much further. I'm just saying, I hope the bill goes through here. So I vote in advance, twice and three in the entire discussion, there's no trouble with it. All I want to do is encourage the government in general to dress up in a book and start making this 300 when interpreting regulations and decrees in the legal form by publishing them in the C C C House of Government Times. I don't know what that bean is. I had no idea of this until it was expressed in our opinion of Páll the son of Cleans Hreinsson, who is very careful. It has at least Just knock on my door, and I'm sure we all have. It was to be done so, so it is well. I think that's why we also have this great bill and nothing wrong with it. There's nothing wrong with having an curfew. This does not mean that it needs to be used. I say, it's much easier and much better and more safe for us, the health minister, the health authorities, the government, the government and everyone, to keep this in the table. Although we may not be going to use it, and hopefully we won't have to, it's at least ... andwe won'tbefied for violating the citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u61	A respectable president. I just want to say, because of what you're doing. According to a member of Parliament, the publication of the World Health Organization has been made clear in my history that the regulations of the Regulation that deal with the preventive measures are inserted into Article 11. the bill, but the Regulation has now been sent to the Management Board for publication and can be expected to be formally published in C department within days or weeks. So I can make myself happy. A senator with at least the will of the one standing here, whether or not, it's to dress up the sleeves or to dress up the sleeves. But I would also like to say so. A senator is talking about the decisions you make at any given time - and I know, because I've been in that situation myself, that it's not simple to make decisions that have such rich interests, which concern our major interests, and I'm not talking about decisions that are also burdensome for people, and in the Icelandic government order, it's that we are, each Minister for us, really, with the ultimate decision of our business, although I have had a way of introducing to the government my actions just as hard - that the decision that we've decided to our best people, it's my conviction that it was the right decision. It's been a blessing. However, at all times, a person can pause and look back and say: "If I had known what I know today, I might have known. make a different decision. But I just wanted to take a few words from a respectable president because of the high value of interests. A senator of the fact that life and health are always at the top of the list.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u62	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of health for the counter-reguage. Yes, I must now admit that I am very happy that we are about to begin to publish this in the next few days and hopefully soon. I am truly happy and just as it has been guaranteed into Article 11. The bill, like the highest. A minister says, which I believe is a measure of prevention. The question, then, is whether they first come, the egg, or the chicken. We're at least ... we'vestuffedupin the bill in case something gets out of hand to publish it that I don't understand. But what is involved in being wise afterward, and so forth, I have only considered this a common sense of wisdom in how we have dealt with this virus. There is nothing to be wise after. Well, the wise thing to do is to see how serious this has been in society, and then I'm not talking about tourism or those who have just lost their jobs and that sort of thing but about the ones who are left behind sad, isolated, depressed, and in great distress, increasing domestic violence, and so forth. I would have liked to see a lot more money to put my arm around our people who are losing their jobs. And when we're talking about 600 billion in debt in the next two years, I'd also like to see an analysis of what we've really gained from being -- we all have to see it later, we can't really talk about it now, we're still in the storm's eye even though we're in the low space now, if I know the government right -- but all the way, I'm waiting to get an analysis of the consequences of our community, both financially and socially, and considering how we've been behaving on the border and the huge costs and the tremendous pressures we've had to deal with our health groups and such things. How beautiful it would have been if we hadn't had to fill the intensive care unit and all other sick Covid patients! That would have been my dream anyway.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u63	A respectable president. The New Zealand government has tried this, i.e. Close the virus out. It hasn't worked out, and it's a fact, and it's in the numbers we've got to the highest waves, and it's the greatest spread we are ourselves, i.e. The way we get together and associate with one another. Only one infection is needed to trigger a wave. What's happening to this virus is that it's unusual and it's also more unusual, what I'm supposed to say, hardened because it's so long, so it's harder to put your arms around it. And by going in the way we have done, by inducing every infection - we have been infected with contaminants around every single infected one of us - we have succeeded. A senator mentioned here, actually, to build on our strengths. We're a small community. We are relatively few. We're an island. We're well informed. It is a relatively short channel, so it is easy to communicate messages. It's been our main quality by following the advice of our best people, and I want to keep it. But because I haven't talked clearly about the World Health Organization, which is our common interests. Senator, it's just the principles that deal with the preventative measures on the 11th border. but the entire Regulation will be published in the Management News.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u64	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. She mentions New Zealand specifically, and I'd like to mention that there are about 5 million people there and the highest number of people infected there in one day, last March, was 87 individuals. It's just beans, a respectable president, given what our little island has had to swallow in this epidemic, just beans. Then it came up that it was supposed to have moved in with frozen food. Actually, I haven't seen any news on whether it's confirmed. At that time, 13 individuals had the virus in the same family. It would've been a little pretty too, would've been the highest. A health minister named it. Other than that, life actually goes on in New Zealand. There are no closed schools, and everything is going down. It's just a flash, and as soon as this thing just knocked off the table. That's how I would have liked to see it here because the third wave has shown it and proved that by pulling in and sticking together we're incredibly quick to straighten out the cow, at least for the spread of infection within the country at this time. Of course, a man is half nervous that we'll be like the heifers that are let out in the spring right now when Christmas begins to approach. Christmas is hearty, strong, and large in our heart, so we must be careful. I urge all the people of the country to be careful. Let's just shop earlier and just eat the Christmas steak at a telethon or through Zoom, I don't know. But at least we have to be careful. We don't want that back.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u65	President. We're here to discuss a new CDC. A health minister who further sharpens the current rules and bases on Páll's view of the son of Hreinsson. I would like to state that it is the evaluation of the person who says that it is important that the matter now be introduced to a political treatment, as Páll's opinion shows that it is precisely an urgent time for the General to make these changes in the treatment of disease control. So that's not what I think of it. However, there is a law in the bill that stands out only in contrast with the rest of the bill, which is a law on curfew. Fortunately, as we have not had to experience as yet because of the disease prevention procedures in this country, I may not feel that it is so urgent. I've heard that insipid. It reminds me that a D.A.D. said that the reason why it was considered necessary not to put on curfews here was primarily because of our way of life, how we live, etc., which is just a completely different kind of thing, but, like, the way we live. In big cities. The decision not to impose a curfew here in Iceland seems to have been a highly objective foundation. The point is, Mr. President: ▪ After attempting a diastolic tolerance of existing disease control laws in the Iceland of Covid-19 epidemic, it is reasonable for the cumulative experience to be weighed and assessed and to make necessary changes in the law in view of the necessary changes to help control the disease is better equipped to meet the next epidemic. - In the next epidemic, not the next wave, I want to point it out. - Before this overall re-examination is undertaken, immediate corrective measures of the law should be taken to correct the key defects, including to ensure that all necessary authority is given by the competent authorities. I think the bill we're talking about will make it almost entirely except for the curfew. I'll put a big question mark on it. The action necessary to take immediately, and Páll has listed in his own opinion, is, for example, one. legal explanation of the main terms needed to be clear, regional shifts of disease and the better place in law or law, and other factors such as being able to bring them to courts if people feel that they are infected with unjust logic, etc. The whole thing has to be done, according to the opinion that it needs to be done. We have been on this together as a nation in the last nine, ten months. There's been some really strong, good social standing. For the most part, she has been a perfect example. People have taken this seriously, have taken the life and health of others as seriously as their own, have endured, endured, and long - suffering and have shown that the nation is listening to the authorities, is listening to governments, and responds to their words and comments. This situation is vital when tests are made, as they do in the modern pandemic. If this bill goes through as it is now, unchanged, I'm concerned that the curfew law would potentially reduce this solidarity. First, as stated earlier, measures that have not been used here before have not had to be tested in the past month, and this is a much more dramatic operation, a much greater loss of liberation than any action taken by the CDC. There is no doubt that there would be a much more political debate, a much more political debate. I don't think that's necessary, Mr. President, because not everything is really there, as Páll's opinion shows. You might form a bill in half, make the changes I like, and hear most people agree completely on and take the other on the side and save it until it's over. If the situation, such as the crisis, should be considered by the competent authorities and ministers to be taken as simply an act of excommunication, experience can give evidence that there would be no problem because of the solidarity the nation has shown and because then the council can come together - it would not take a very long time - and provide some kind of emergency law, to do so. So I'd really like to discuss if there's a need for the curfew in there. Similarly, at the meeting limit, reports of domestic violence have increased. It is a natural side effect of a disease prevention operation, which is very painful and tragic. I think that most of us would agree that these measures had to be carried out, but as the process goes on, we will better see exactly what the side effects of a controlled disease operation are. It is granted that curfew would not compensate for this particular point, and it should, in the longest law, try to prevent the intervention. As for the Senate's surveillance role, this could be much more effective. Then I'm not talking about all that is happening, and the CDC doesn't have the authority to intervene as they see the need to, but that the council is informed about decision making and the basis for it is regularly established. This is something that would be positive and just add to a solidarity, a conversation, and an enlightened view of matters, both in the council and in the community. I want to reiterate that I am delighted that these necessary actions are being carried out. V.E.G. A health minister has indicated that she is willing to listen to the council on these topics and to her secular work. the welfare committee on which the one sitting. I hope there will be a good and satisfying conversation about these things, and I look forward to continuing to work. But I repeat: I don't feel that curfew at this point is necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. Pirats have something to do with the curfew. I'd like them to look at the 2008 P.R. Act, which says, That if they are dropped, the manager or the county may call the grown man for immediate assistance. He can also oblige men to take courses and exercise, and he can oblige men not to leave law without permission. These are the small things. In times of danger, traffic can be banned and people who disobey can be removed, a stay can be banned, and people can also be confined. In itself, if there's a way to ban stay and traffic, people can be quiet, say in houses. People can be removed from a danger zone and all are obligated to obey and evacuate. You can take tenure courses, you can obligatory the public to provide shelter and penance to other people, food, fuel, supplies, medicines, etc. So there is an example for extreme action in Icelandic law when it comes to a natural problem, as you can hear here, of course. So I'm actually curious to know why these concerns are being waved away now when this is available in Icelandic legislation, though, in other circumstances. But now there's also a long time for volcanic eruptions, and to me it's a perfect parallel.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u67	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson counter. To answer, yes, there are other burdensome laws in other places in the public defense, and certainly have the right to be there. What I want to point out, however, is the context, the overall context. As I came in earlier, we are in the middle of a delicate conversation. It has developed trust in the local authorities and has been followed by that decision. Of course, humans don't always agree, and that's not always the case, but after all, we see how it has been achieved and reduced. People are following this recommendation and regulations from the local authorities. Trust is one of the most important things in life, and in dealing with the government with the public in the country, and I think it is just so precious, precious things that we may be throwing away. Even if, like a beard. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson points out, there's some critical evidence that it's in there, I'm just saying that it was, I think, a much more rational to take that conversation after we're out of the crisis, since it looks like it's not too far into it. Hv. A senator mentions volcanic eruptions, they can last many years, and this is the time for the crisis to take place. But I'm just very tempted to maintain this precious trust with the nation, and I don't suggest that it will be a political case in the community and in the media, and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u68	Mr. President. I appreciate that answer. I just want to reiterate that, of course, the actions I just described and what's in this bill, emergency procedures. This is not used during the whole epidemic, nor is it at the time of all the volcanic eruptions. This is an emergency procedure, as is the case with many of the things I just listed, if necessary. Of course it's set before this is tested. This in itself has seldom been a pressure on public defences, and most of it has been a burden. It's perfectly normal to take this conversation when it's not, let's not say a calm but at least not a big storm, and set exactly the laws that make sure that if things go off in the future, these measures can be taken. So I feel very hollow in this criticism, and I experience it so that these laws are being ignored for something to hang in when it is obvious that the Icelandic law allows you to do as much under the pressure as the people here are talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u69	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir A Trausti Guðmundsson for second act. Hv. A senator says that the only thing I'm putting here is the hollow sound. Then I can tell you what. A member of the council that it is my convictions, solely profound conviction, that makes me bring these criticisms, and not at all to cause trouble for no reason, but it is not the way I practice politics. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson again mentioned volcanic eruptions and public security. That's where we're at. A senator agreed that there must be necessary inhibitors, etc. Again, though, I reiterate that what I'm saying is that now, even if we are in a certain state of low self-infection, as well. A senator points to the point where society is not in silence. I'm telling myself that you're still a little bit of a shock about how this year has gone down, and then maybe it's not the best time to be making some really big, dramatic decisions. I think curfew is so, as I mentioned earlier, about side operations, etc. Yeah, if they're put under pressure, this needs to be there, but I'd like to point out why. It belongs to a senator that I believe there is. We have a situation. I'm sure they would immediately take the position of escorting a curfew, and they don't need me at this point, and I'm worried about the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u70	A respectable president. As mentioned in the discussion, the government cannot do anything unless it is a foundation in the law, and therefore we cannot use exits now because there is no basis for it in the law. When we recommend this in a bill to correct the conversion of disease laws, we are suggesting to the General that it sets this framework for government, that this authority is there to meet certain conditions so that it is absolutely clear when and when to use it. And I just want to mention it, because here people like generals can always be called up to roll through some primers, and truly they have taken a little time to change the law, but we're talking about circumstances that are very different from those we're talking about right now, which were right here. Based on indications in this population, including From a pathologist, from the state police director and others, these are for instance if a very severe and highly infectious infection would be transmitted through the atmosphere or by a serious toxic reaction that spread very rapidly or by radioactivity. If so, we would not have a legal authority to use an outpost, even if the occasion was available. I would like to encourage the Generals to be responsible now to set this framework and set this legislation because the government of the future may need the guidance of the Generals, even though we do not see that position right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u71	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of health for the counter-reguage. I hear a verbal argument at the highest. A health minister in this matter, and it can really be broken down a little. Actually, the situation that has come up now is that the legislation is behind, something that would have to be accepted earlier. V.E.G. A minister is called radiation, a radioactive device, or other types of toxic substances in the atmosphere. These are all things that could have happened and even more chance of having happened some decades ago. So we are faced with only the letter of the law behind, politics being followed. V.E.G. A minister points out that fingers cannot be clicked and that the Allieds can come and put new laws, and certainly they are true and right and need to be so, that is important in democracy. Then I'd like to say we're in a bit of a fix in this regard. True, an excommunication may arise. But now we've achieved infections with action that are currently ongoing, reached them completely down, there seems to be a gliding of the vaccine in this particular disease, Covid-19, and there has been no need for exits on the grounds that we live in a different way than other nations in many ways, and therefore I ask again a minister: Why can't you divide this into two and count only ten with this point? It doesn't seem urgent that it needs to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u72	A respectable president. This is a valid question by reason of the question. Senator. It is always a question of how far it is right now when changing the control code. Hreinsson Palson mentioned that there are certain matters that would have to be done as quickly as possible, while others would need to be considered on an overall legal review even. But there is also a thought - provoking point. Says one senator: The law is behind us now. That's exactly what the Committee, which I want to review in particular IV. a section of the barbaric law. When it begins to study the laws of the law, it comes to a conclusion. Then the committee will find that we need such sources just to be ahead if we were to face such a situation. I think, as we have seen in this discussion, none of us would have wondered if we were in the situation we are in today, that the senators and even the respectable president would wear masks at the council hall, and we would be out of line to have distances between us, and that we were talking about infestation and assembly bans, that I now don't talk about curfews, at a respectable General. What I want to say and what I want to understand this conversation I have with you. A senator with, is just asking. Allied and wοuldn't dο yοu knοw? The welfare committee not to take this law off the table and seriously review if under these circumstances it is not proper to look out for the position that the European Commission might need, under some circumstances, completely unexpected, to resort to such an oppressive procedure. If so, it would be very important that the Council have made a very clear decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u73	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The health minister these answers. I can speak for myself, and I will certainly do all the work on this bill as well as other prime radios here at the council and on the welfare committee will consider it with an open mind, and will question all the arguments that recommend and weigh and assess and have a perplexing conversation with the minister and the rest of the council on this matter. It remains that I still make considerable notice of this. Today, we are with the government, the government, the government, and the health - care minister with great trust in the nation. It may not always be so, and then it is important that there is some sort of security inhibitor at the council, some sort of emergency measures that can be taken, be abused in some way. It's also on the basis of which I've called for more room in terms of this bill's terms. But, of course, what Piratar and I stand for is a financial work and informed decision-making, and I will work from there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u74	Mr. President. This is a very important bill we're discussing today, about the change in disease control laws, which have been passed since 1997 and, as far as I'm best at the bill, nothing has been applied. They've made some changes, but we've never been in a situation that looks like what we're doing today, and that's why I celebrate this bill. I don't think we should wait because then we can't find in the blood what condition we are in. That's why I want to praise the highest. A health minister for bringing this bill in right now. We are all very aware of the situation we are in right now, but it is soon over. We are also approaching the end of a chosen period, and here at the council are troubled times ahead, so I think it is important that we discuss this now. However, I would say this with them in advance that there is always need to be a problem, and there is also need to be a problem when the bills are brought in, despite the fact that the Generalist is the lawgiver. I hope to the highest. Ministers encourage their people to what? a welfare committee to watch with an open mind to make needed changes in the bill - especially because the bill was worked with great haste and was not treated by government instruments - because at times it has been referred to by members of the council to make the necessary changes, on the grounds that so many experts are present in the plots that have more sense than the experts called on the committees. This is what I say here at the beginning of my speech because of the highest. The minister is in the hall, and I know she has a good relationship with her members on the committee. What I find uncomfortable is that there was no reason for this bill, for the deal of this bill, for the committee or for a certain group to write this bill, for having a representative of the disease prevention in that group, or for carrying the bill specifically under the SEC. The current antimicrobial law states in 1 mg. 6th ... withauthority of the President's permission: And seven men shall be set by the king's servant, a rod of disease, for four years. This should include a qualified physician in the field of infectious diseases, bacterial, viral, sexually transmitted diseases, and epidemiology/healthology, a health care professional, and a specialist nurse with expertise in the field of infection. 3 mg. Section 6. says: The environment of the environment, including the environment of the environment, is a major concern in preventing transmission of infectious diseases, which should be used by the health authorities to advise on how to prevent transmission of infectious diseases. This particular law, and hence the role of a disease prevention stake, is being converted into this bill, and that is why you would rather have intended a good reason to carry the bill under the control line. Instead of preventing the disease prevention policies and providing health advice on how to prevent transmission of infectious diseases, the decision in this bill is made to have this, with the permission of the President: The SEC should be provided with a guidance on the cross-cutting policies and measures to prevent transmission of infectious diseases. It appears that the role of the Disease Prevention Programme was to shape policies in the cross-cutting process. It seems to me to be a fundamental change in the role of a powered river. I don't know why that happens. Maybe there's something that we here at the council haven't heard about. However, I have heard from within the Center for Disease Control that representatives there feel very little to discuss in the unprecedented state of the world. I may have wanted to know what the problem is with not all of these measures. This bill is also very personal protection, and I wondered if a personal protection evaluation was made. It was made in answer to the highest. The minister of the state of State Protection, who has been very concerned with our welfare committee, that the Ministry of Social Services in the matter of their welfare committees, under the protection laws of the P.I., is under the obligation to have the personal protection evaluated when the prime radios are combined. In this case, see paragraph 10. the bill is being added to four new paragraphs relating to the processing of personal data, data collection, documenting of the affected persons, the sharing of information about persons who are infected, etc. Of course, this is a very important factor, and when it comes to good care, we need both belts and bracelets. At least I'll commend the bill heads for the final course of Article 10. They say, by permission of the president: Such data, i.e. all of this personal information that is acquired - ▪ Scale destroyed when they are no longer needed because of cross-infection. Such data are forbidden to be used for a purpose that was not obtained. I'll suggest it for what. The welfare committee to ask specifically whether this wording of the law is sufficient for not storing data. I strongly disagree with those who argue here that there is no reason to include laws on curfews or no reason to explain the laws of disease. I believe that there is good reason to set exactly the rules of curfew in the treatment of disease prevention because we see the need to resort to curfews in countries that are not too far apart from us. We'd better have such a warrant for the treatment of disease laws, but we'd better not lean on something. If there is to be such a provision, it is for preventative treatment. But I will make that suggestion here, to have said it, and then will suggest it in the course of time. well - being committee, that such arrangements - whether for a meeting ban, closure of job operations, retirement of job drivers, curfews, or other activities - are the same as in Article 15. The law of the law, can be taken to court, because it is already under disinfectants, and being adjusted by the law of this bill, and better implemented, for an individual who needs to submit to pressure measures for disease control. That person can make a decision by the government under the courts, and this trial in the courts should be very rapid, as is often done in the face of forced action. Then I think it would be a good thing to have these or these things, too, so that people can make that decision under the courts, you can only make that decision, because, so I repeat, that is a good reason to have a curfew in the law. There's a good reason for that. We would have been shocked a year ago, but today we are not shocked to set clear rules for curfews, bans on meeting bans, and quit the job because it is just being done around the world. I think it's kind of special to listen to people criticize the fact that there's a clear law on it. But again I say, such decisions should, in my opinion, be possible to serve in courts with the same warning and procedure as in Article 15. The same law as it is now, and it becomes with the changes that apply to an individual. Only on subsidies of Article 12. The bill with regard to Article 14. The law, then the 13th. The bill, which brings me back to the administrative decisions and charges of the verse of the court. Downstairs 12. says, with permission of the president: ▪ The decision to take action according to this legal code - and then we are talking about some arrangement for individuals - ◯ It is a judicial committee that does not include the removal of freedom. - Then we're talking about some of the necessary measures except a deportation. --* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * This is exactly the same with putting things under courts; this procedure does not delay the execution of a decision. If freedom is taken away, the individual can take his or her own case in court. I believe that the decision of an individual's loss of freedom and loss of employment and curfew is, of course, a depravity. I'm putting this together, should be ruled by the courts. That's what I want to point out. Other than that, I have to say, I'm looking forward to winning this case, but not so fast that we don't do it well, but I think it's absolutely necessary to sharpen the laws on the control of the disease.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's review, expecting a good cooperation. A welfare committee, and of course, I expect that there will be a solidarity on the Committee to do the matter for the benefit of the case and to improve it according to the rules of any client. Because of what lays. A senator mentioned at the end of this article that, of course, any legal case can be handled according to standard procedures. Hv. A senator raised views that are subject to personal protection. The review of the case reviews the cooperation with Peritoneal protection and how it was carried out. In short, all the indications given to Persian protection are very sensitive and very sensitive. And I expect it to be. A medical committee arranges for Persian protection to meet with them to discuss this further. Because of what? A senator mentioned it, and it is, of course, true, that the treatment laws have not been applied to the scale we are seeing in modern times, i.e. Public arrangements to the public on a large scale. However, they have been treated against individuals who have been isolated from infectious diseases, such as the case. I finally want to thank you. A senator for a financial approach to the importance of setting rules on curfew in Icelandic law. We see that powerful democracies who have been led are resorting to such burdensome measures to their inhabitants, and it is important for informed democracies that the Commission's hands are bound by the clear will of the Lawgiver in this respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u76	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, and rejoice in the desire to carry the bill under Persian protection. But I don't see that the bill's influence on personal protection was directly assessed. But perhaps it is just the wording that is that way. If such a assessment has been made, it is a great deal of the good. Of course, we will be informed of this in any case. The welfare committee. To reiterate it - even if we're not going to get over the law - I still believe that when we have sensitive, very important issues, they're clear and clear in the law. We know that things can suddenly smile, something we didn't know a year ago. We had no idea we were standing in that situation today. It makes me feel irresponsible to leave it behind. Of course, because it is said that we should be moderate in our decision - making habits, we must likewise imagine that a person in a health minister's chair could be seated who may not be particularly fond of a moderate person or who is unable to do so. Therefore, there is a need to be careful that the public is involved in a case where such a decision can be made under courts. I think it's very important that we have some kind of defense in case we might be stuck with such a health minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u77	A respectable president. As revealed only in the exchange of words. A member of the council earlier stated specifically in the report, with the permission of a president: A special assessment of the effects on personal protection was conducted in the processing of the bill. The conclusion of the evaluation was that the bill had a positive effect on the basic rights and interests of registered individuals. Data from public and vulnerable sources may be extensive, and therefore it is important that the government's sources be clear. Clear sources provide efficiency in the implementation of permissions, making the processing more predictable and more beneficial for the registry. This is really an article of the same hurt as when talking about the importance of having a clear law on curfew. It is only very important that the lawgiver speak clearly in these respects so that the European Commission is fully equipped for the principles involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u78	Mr. President. I don't mean to keep this far, but I agree with the highest degree. Healthcare Minister for clarifying the laws and clear laws of the basic rights of the city is a key factor.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helga gave her Vala Helgadóttir for her speech and fine passage and her vision of the matter. I agree with the senator that here is an enormously important case and, in fact, the product of the test run on the DMV that we are in right now. Hv. A member of the council had a discussion about the disease prevention. I'd like to visit the senator to see if she agrees with me, or if she wants to discuss it with me in any other way, to be the role of a prosecutor, as it is in Level 6. It may not fit very well into the heat and weight of an epidemic. It somehow just fits in much better with the role of the screening guide, i.e. To be guide, broad lines, and such. But it may be difficult to make decisions or to recommend decisions from day to day in the middle of a epidemic. Then I wondered, " Does the senator feel that even the role of the council needs to be explained more clearly or in this respect? ' I'm at least. not convinced that it can really be taken, especially when an epidemic takes months, such as now, from day to day, or in single decisions, let's say. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u80	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm looking at this law that's pretty exotic to me. I can't say I've slept with the Disease Control Act under my pillow in the last few years. I don't think there are many people there who must have been there. But it says in the council, by permission of the president: In the field of infectious diseases, bacterial, viral, sexually transmitted diseases, and epidemiology/health care professionals, health professionals and specialist nurse with expertise in the field of infection should be placed. The secretary appoints the chairman of the household of stewardess. They're trying to control possible epidemics that could fall on the land, some are bacteria, and something else. We've come to such a rush that, of course, I don't get caught in medicine at all. However, if you look at the part and what the authority should do, I'd think it should be right there for counseling and be called in at these times. We have a public defense note, and we have some advice that we do not have on meetings every day. It is not a day - to - day measure of protection except in such situations, of course. You wonder, though, " Is it not just in such a time that the disease - control industry should be very active in order that a carer is not really half single in his actions? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. It's a bit of an interesting approach to the council, and that's kind of why I wanted to talk to a senator about it so that we would have to go over this article in particular. Somehow I have -- and better to say that I have not also slept with the Disease Control Act under my pillow, although they have been familiar with me - I have considered the disease prevention to be more acdelical, let's say, such as the best advice, that could see in the past, to be a source of data and blood, blah, blah, and had all the time in the world to do it. Then, when the operation arrived, it might turn out to be a hoverer. I can totally agree with that. A senator may suggest that the lyrics of the Law as it is written may in some way indicate that the body's role is more in the heat and weight of an epidemic than I can sense. My background may be to distract me there, to have been in such a scene, and knowing that then the decisions just need to be made very quickly, but just based on some guidelines that may have come from some corps such as a disinfectant. But it will certainly be fun to think about this in a moment. Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u82	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. I only looked at the report, and I didn't see any further definition of the council's role. However, having discussed with the representatives of the Governing Body, they also seem to be hiding why this epidemic is not filled with advice. Granted, there are some decisions that need to be made more quickly. Still, large groups have been called, even when decisions need to be made quickly. When a disease - control doctor is the only one who has some knowledge of disease prevention, even though all of us have become experts in one way or another, I think that there is even more reason to have it very active in such times. We need to gather in all our leading people wherever they are and have the support of a psychiatrist and others who have to make very difficult decisions, which, of course, have dramatic consequences. It can also be referred only to the Center for Disease Control when dealing with a number of experts, both in the house and outside, self - styled as multiorganized.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u83	That's when we don't know what's under the pillow.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u84	President. This bill is given to fix things that have to be fixed in the treatment laws now, e.g. Some terms, what they really mean, must be explained so that they cannot be applied without being on a strong legal basis, making sure that they are not responsible for the same actions, clear responsibilities, and necessary things. This is shown in the opinion of Dr.jar. Páll's Hreinsson, as discussed by a board of directors and inspectors at Páll's open meetings last month or six weeks or so. He says it's necessary to make these changes, for those who are interested in it, which is the 12th point at the bottom of the page. 48 in Páll's opinion, referring to a point that would be appropriate for a review of heart condition laws. That's a legal explanation of the main terms of the law, whether the regional shifts belong better in law or law. He says that if people are under siege and if they don't like them, they have a 4. Sixty-seven. The constitution, to deliver it to a judge. It's all been inserted into the law. They're being explained. The chain of responsibility is being clarified and rights are being protected. This is an aspect that everyone agrees on the need to do. Then there are things like curfews not mentioned by Páll. At the end of this section on legal adjustments that need to be considered regarding changes in the treatment laws, Páll says, with the permission of a president: ▪ Before this overall review, immediate corrective measures on the law should be made, including: to ensure that all necessary authority is given by the competent authorities. What I just mentioned is essential. It's not the complete reexamination. Páll also speaks of the fact that in order for us to be in position to meet the next epidemic, we need to make this overall review. The only thing in this bill I'd like to point out is that taking out and returning to the minister is curfew. This has not been necessary, and it is mentioned in the bill, which speaks of what has been done abroad, by permission of presidents: To this deportation, the Covid-19 epidemic has not been taken, nor has it been a cause, but it has been used abroad to form in most Western European countries, outside the northern countries. So it has not been for good reason. We now have a vaccine, as a minister has been introduced to us. The last time a minister introduced this to us at the council, the two and the third were coming, I think we've got three of us now. There has not been a reason to use curfews, and now we may be on our way out of the epidemic, people see at least the light at the end, so I don't see why there is such a warrant now in this epidemic. Putting it in now brings two negative factors. One is that this requires much more discussion and control in the community, whether we are going to live in a society that allows this to happen. As a result, people begin to divide into groups and sides. The other things I was referring to, as Páll says, are necessary before the overall review takes place. It'll slow down the work on that point. The pictures I see in the processing of this case are three. One is that the curfew remains inside and all the talk that needs to take place in the community and all the negative talk, the parties that people order themselves in, etc, that will delay these necessary matters. The second scene is that these necessary factors will be run on, but also this point that would be better off in the overall review. As a result, the discussion will not be enough. They too will cause social difficulties. The third and only successful scene I see in this is that the curfew has a change from the bill, and the point referred to a health minister on the basis of asking for a complete review on the prevention necessary, and Páll says that it needs to be considered. But it is not this critical point that we need now. We don't need curfews now to deal with Covid-19. We haven't had to, and it's on the bill, and we don't need it because we're looking into the future with a vaccine on our own. I think it would be most successful to do this, to follow the pattern that the curfew will go out with a change in solidarity, to take the ball, to work it into a complete adjustment, and to make sure that the improvements are clearer, as Páll Hreinsson indicated, are agreed on. That's what I'd like to direct to the Minister, who's going to counter me. How does a minister feel about these scenarios? Does she look like me, that the most successful stage is this third, that she gets the curfew, and she works it into a bigger whole package than we finish the rest first? Then we can do it quickly during the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u85	A respectable president. Now there's a little bit of steam setting up three stage photos, and one of them is the senator's opinion, and she's the most successful of all. It is natural to realize that the bill needs to be won, and Congress is needed. It is not their intention that the bill pass through the council without being discussed. On the other hand, I notice. The head of the welfare committee agrees with the views I have had here on this government resources, possible government resources in a possible future in which these circumstances might lead to our success, and the importance of the Congress taking up the responsibility to deal with this difficult concept and this problem with government authority in some of the circumstances that we do not see for ourselves right now. I'd like to mention it to you at what? In 1997, when a bill was discussed for the Center for Disease Control was actually dealing with decisions such as meeting bans and other items that no one saw for them to be used in a pandemic as we are dealing with today, which is over 23 years later. So I would like to encourage the senator to use his vast vision and solution to this concept and see if it is not right now when we are with Covid-19 and all around to deal with these government sources accurately with possible circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u86	President. Yeah, I'm ready for that. But the highest. Minister, I want this to be divided so that we can deliver quickly and carefully what Páll says is necessary now to ensure that the measures that have been required have been performed are corrected, but we take away those that have not been necessary and have not been considered grounds for use and have not been considered necessary or grounds to be used in this epidemic. We tear this thing apart, and a minister can present it as a matter of special assembly. Then we can talk about it for as long as it takes. We can do it now, I'm sure it's now, but we won't let it stop the other thing that's necessary, the good thing that's on the bill minister's bill that requires much less weight and can be done very quickly. We could do it by Christmas. But if we have this law within, as the minister says, a very careful matter, i.e. The curfew, it can delay. That's what I'm saying, and that's how I approach it, based on the solution criteria, as the minister says. I see it as a solution, so that we can do it without the restraining of the curfew the necessary factors to be made fast, and the necessary elements that need to be done rapidly, somehow push against working properly with the cautious aspects of curfew. That's why it seems to me that the best way to do this is to take it apart, and that's what I'm asking the Minister about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u87	A respectable president. I see why. A senator and his conduct here are fine. He suggests this process and believes that coverage of curfew will take too long. I'm not sure. I think that in this context of other measures and in such progressive decisions, which, of course, are instruments of the government under these circumstances, it is appropriate to discuss precisely this most progressive approach. I say again, I'll be right back. To impress them, a senator and Pirata try to cope with this tool, such as the others who are already in the treatment of disease laws and are being sharpened by the proposal. But then I'd also like to say, no matter what the General Re-Election is going to be on the bill that's being discussed, there's a reason for a full reexamination of government laws. There is something we have to do when the epidemic is over. We need to take time to do this and make a lot of preparation. That will be the project of another assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I will look at all the views and listen to them. So far, I haven't heard the viewpoint that it's necessary to do this right now and I feel that the bill shows that it's not necessary to do so. There hasn't been any reason to use this. We got the epidemic down by the first wave, with all the uncertainty, with the measures taken, including this wave. It seems to me that trying to deal with this at the same time could make things worse because trust is something you can gain by showing trust and trust in the government. Then, if we are going to set up a set of principles that show that we do not trust people, I do not feel that this is a good message. Of course, I will listen to the viewpoints presented during the discussion and we will see how the matter develops on the committee. If this point delays, we get these necessary changes - Denmark did it during the summer, making some small changes in its language to fix things there, but it's taken longer here. So it would be good to get it done as soon as possible and not allow anything to delay it. But we'll see how this works on the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u89	President only wants to stop and point out. A senator says there is no need to thank a president for being assigned to the platform. However, it is assumed that the president is addressed in a specific way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u90	Mr. President. I'm not going to thank the highest. But I'm going to thank the health minister for delivering this bill here today. I think it is important that the council be given the opportunity to discuss the aspects of the hospice laws discussed in this bill and may be among the factors that have been most challenging since the early year. In this context, of course, certain aspects of the disease - control laws have been called upon to be explained and strengthened, the government's sources being made clearer and stronger. I, in this and elsewhere, have expressed the view that in current disease prevention laws there might be, I have not taken the initiative, I have not taken the clear and strong record of some of the measures taken during the past few months. It seems quickly to me that with the bill it's meant to substantiate these points, and that in itself is positive. Many things in the bill just seem to me to look for better ways in which things get clearer and stronger. Nevertheless, I think the council must just take advantage of the opportunity to review these points in order to really evaluate what is at home in this regard and what is not. There's only been a curfew in this relationship, and I believe that that that's exactly what we need to discuss here, if there's any reason to add such options. Similarly, regarding the other anti-pyretic measures listed here, it is presented in a more thorough and clearer way than it has been up to now. Of course, we need to review this and evaluate what is at home and what is not. I'm not going to go to the bill's unique features, but I can mention that at least the first perspective seems to me that the committee involved may need to pause and take time to examine Article 10, 11, 12, paragraph 10. the bill and the sources there are. But if I approach it in a general way, then it's like when we talk about signs of disease control and preventative measures, then we're obviously finding two main principles to integrate. On the one hand, we are talking about what we should say, health care measures based on signs of infection to protect people's lives and health. However, we need to examine it from the citizen's viewpoint, one of the limitations, the impairment of rights, and the other of the measures taken. In this regard it may be most important to look at the laws of the Constitution as well as, in fact, documented and unregistered regulations of both the administration and the administrative rights which include the sake of public interest, and including health issues, may take action that limit or impair freedom and rights, which we consider otherwise self-sponsored and holy, i.e. Health views include those that may arise and can justify a degree of personal rights. In my mind, there is no doubt that in the situation that upstairs is a basis for consideration. This is a basis for the use of anti-pyretic measures, but there is also reason to consider the measures taken according to what we can call individual freedom of freedom or personal freedom. The fact that there is a health threat or some danger does not make it possible to do anything. Both the Lawgiver and the government have strict authority on what can be done, even if it is proved or undeniably true that health views exist. In each case, we need to go through a particular test, if we can put it this way, to check, to determine if the measures we are taking are within the framework set by order and principles allow us to make room. In other words, we need to take care to walk to the earth, even if the occasion is rich. Even if justification is there to take limited measures, we need to do so in a way that harmonizes with other principles that we need to respect. I read it so that in the bill all the efforts are in that direction. On the other hand, we must consider this with a critical mind - to - face view. I'm not going to go deep on a few things, but I just wanted to remind you that when we feel that there's a reason to limit freedom, a government rights, in some way, we need to make sure that it's done by law and by clear law. We need to make sure that both the legal authority and the decisions made on the basis of law are in harmony with principles on the topic of viewpoints, on equality, on average, and on such matters. There are certain factors that need to be kept in mind in this regard. This is equal to the legislation as the Regulation and, of course, some decisions made on this legal basis. That even makes me. To say that it is necessary, if any rights of this kind are impaired, that there is a clear legal warrant. However, it is not enough for a law to be clear but also for the legal authority to be equal, moderate, and other factors to be taken into account. Of course, there are many reasons why clear law is required. It is not an expert in the Icelandic Constitution, which is behind it, but it is a recognized opinion in Western democracies that it is necessary, if the Constitution is restricted, that it be done by the National Assembly, by a democratic Assembly, and that the impairment is determined by the open and expedient use of the National Assembly. Therefore, it is very important that authority on the decrease is stated in the laws of the Council, not just in the regulations of the Ministers. Of course, this is also to the point that it can take place, as it happens in the National Assembly, reasoning on the sources being made, that it is not a single-sided projector, but that it is decided in agreement, reasoning, in which a person who wants to be assigned to the restricted needs to prove why he is offering it and others can ask the critical questions. This is especially important to me in this regard because up until now we've been in the position here at the council that we've certainly been able to ask a minister who has clearly answered the reasons why, but it's been so much behind the examination. It has not been an opinion that has taken place before decisions are made but, rather, much more following tests. It is fine, as far as it goes, but when making decisions that may involve a loss of the great rights of people, there is also a determination, and to my mind a very strong reason that it also takes place in making decisions but not after. Of course, some decisions have to be made on short notice, without any great distraction, and, of course, legislation has to create a framework for making such decisions. Other decisions, however, may not be a matter of taking them to the council. I would like for the members of Parliament or the members of Parliament to discuss this matter to be considered also from that point of view, for there are, of course, considerable other places to be found when decisions need to be made during the first few days or during the first few weeks after conditions arise that cause a health threat or when these conditions have lasted for months, as is possible, and there is also our experience. Our situation, e.g. In the council or in the government or elsewhere, in order to assess decisions, there is something different today than that of February or March. We've seen things we hadn't experienced in this country, at least not for a long time, we've made decisions, we've tried them, we've seen experiences, we've seen how other nations will react, etc. So we can say that although in some cases it may be necessary to have a legal authority to make decisions without much interference, others are that it may be more natural and more appropriate for them to be introduced to the council. Of course, if necessary, this council can work fairly quickly and handle matters fairly quickly and in countless cases over the past few years that it has been tried, even though the council has had some time, some sleep, to weigh the decisions that must have been taken. I don't intend to keep this speech longer, but I believe that there's a big, positive step that this bill has entered the council. I believe it has many benefits, but I'm willing to say that there may be some things that need more thought and discussion before being taken care of by the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u91	A respectable president. I suppose we expect the council to take the matter into consideration. Hv. A senator here speaks of the importance of each case in evaluating the principles of administration and administration, recorded and unregistered rules. I want to make sure of what. Of course, the senator is. It would be better now if the minister signed a Regulation without such a review in the scheme. That's what the Ministry is for. And Ministers base their regulations on local law. I thought I didn't have to go over it specifically. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament whether he is suggesting this and whether he intends to suggest in the conniving treatment that the social rights to be taken from the minister to the Council, to the political field, from day to day. We would then move this aspect of the European Commission, appointed by the General Minister of Disease Control, back to the Council, which would be unusual in comparison with the government, and each decision would be considered here at the General Assembly and dealt with in a political way. This would be more apparent, then, by the political opinions of members and members of Congress, rather than by scientific knowledge, as we would like to endeavor to carry out the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u92	V.E.G. President. I believe that there must be a distinction between decisions that must be made day by day and that need to be taken with little notice and more targeted decisions that, in my opinion, may require more urgent treatment at the council. I don't have a clear picture of it, and I don't know if it's a clear suggestion in this regard, but I don't think it's an accident that in the constitution, and in the principles of our administration, the decisions that involve the degree or authority to restrict certain individual rights must be carried out by law from the General Assembly. I think that in that we need to see where the general regulations are effective and where to make a special opinion of the rules in each case. Then I'm not talking about some kind of government decision. I'm also not necessarily talking about a Minister's Regulation. Rather, I'm saying that the sources that the Minister is given by the law may be even clearer and better equipped than now and that they are in the bill and/or that the sources given by the Minister to make decisions that include the impairment of these rights may be much clearer and more specific, and will occur in some clearer and more frequent manner than is currently expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for explaining his words here. I expect that. A senator has noticed that we, in our preventive measures and the measures taken during the epidemic, are seeking them to be as short as possible, precisely because of difficult action. At times, the discussion has been very brief, and it would need to be more aware and preferably just let it hold for months. I have not felt that it would be good because I think there should always be an exception to the fact that we are taking such action, that we should never get tamed or become accustomed to something. Hv. A senator answered my objection by referring to something he called the larger decisions that would be the goalie in some way but might not be referring to these, what should I say, the routine action we're talking about in the regulations. I'd like to pray. A senator to explain a little more what he means and to see if he could mention here some of the main decisions in the process we are dealing with today, i.e. from the time the land of Covid-19 was taken. What is the focus of the decision that he believes was made in this process and could have come here for a discussion at the Council as a bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u94	V.E.G. President. I believe that e.g. Decisions about bans on certain activities, restrictions on the borders and other regulations based on regulations might as well have been discussed at the council before making decisions, in many cases at least in the absence of discovery in the afternoon on Wednesday, that such rules need to be established at noon or something like this. This needs to be considered only based on the time frame. We may consider things from different viewpoints in this regard. I believe that many decisions we are making on the basis of current disease control laws are of a nature that would not be unhealthy and unnatural to have them discussed at the council before they are taken. It's just my princely position in these matters. Where is the line exactly, I don't know. Of course, I'm not talking about some individual government decisions being made for the council. That's not what I'm talking about. But rules that include restrictions on governmental rights must in my mind be given a substantial and accurate view before they are recorded. I have made comments to say that the sources that have been found in the law that in many cases this was weak and unclear when it comes to that process. I don't think I want to sound too negative, that the solution to that is nothing necessarily a list of other possible measures. [[The president calls.]] I think we also need to examine how the decisions are made.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u95	Mr. President. I'm going to try to be a rider and maybe keep the discussion for some committees. There are a few things that I think are important to us. First, I am very happy that the bill as it is submitted. I'm looking forward to working with this bill. The welfare committee. I have watched the discussion here today and will take them along with me into the committee and try to figure out what points we especially need to deal with and what we especially need to consider. When reading the bill, there may be two opinions except for the information the senators have listed here, and I'm not going to be a tenth of anything further. In 1 1. The bill is referred to, for the 4th section. or, about the same time, that tourists can be taken into the immunisation process, certainly under certain circumstances, not at any time, but in a very narrowly defined setting. This is something that I think we need to talk about on the committee, and I thought it was important to do so here. We haven't been that way until Iceland, we've done a little research on immunizations, and we need to do a little more research. It's the same with a 12. The bill. As a result, isolation at a hospital or in a clinic, but in my opinion, the definition of a disease - control facility is actually missing and what it takes to be considered in the law. I think the committee needs explanations and jobs. I'm not gonna have my words much longer than this. However, I further state that this matter, of course, needs careful inspection and work at the right time. Committee. It's just shown by today's discussion that there will be many opinions and there will be different opinions. But at least I'll let myself. to assert that there is a general agreement that this is a matter that needs to be discussed at the council, that there is an agreement that it is time to reconsider and address these matters. It's an assignment. The welfare committee gets it. At least for my part, I will try to do what I can to handle the matter well on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u96	A respectable president. I'd like to say, as shown in my case several times here at the council and in public. I may consider it appropriate to present the song that has been common today in the ninth month, soon ten months: These are unprecedented times. I ask a respectable president to ask me only what is exactly unprecedented in these times because we have represented world elders before. We have had worse and less plague than the year in which we live. I only mention the Spanish flu over 100 years ago, but then each year, each year, it's been different. Happily, today we have a vaccine that will help us to cope with the flu. Yet, in Iceland, in the last few decades up to 40 human lives, all too many lives are required each year by influenza. One year, and 25 years ago, not so many years ago. It's like this to put things in perspective. Visitors are not without condemnation, that's what I'd like to say. What, then, is without condemnation? I think it's completely unprecedented, the response we've taken because of this particular epidemic. That's what we're talking about in Iceland and all over the world. So, of course, there are unprecedented times, but I think that's mainly due to the reaction. This bill is about many fine and essentials, as was shown by Páll the Hreinsson of Cleanz, who acted on the request of the government, the prime minister, and the health minister when asked to assess the boundaries of the government and the Lawgiver. It was his opinion that changing disease laws would be a real challenge, especially in view of the measures taken. It was also pointed out that it was necessary to revise the entire Law and, of course, make the best of it. I expect this work to be started at the Department of Health, working at the full reexamination of the law, taken away from the changes here. I may not go any more than others do. Senators who have spoken here today to cover much of the material aspects of the bill, yet I would like to mention a few points. I can say things with a lot of heads. The members of the council here have spoken, and there are things that attract my particular attention, and I believe there is a need to be thoroughly discussed here during the council treatment. There's a lot of new things in this bill, there's new concepts, new responses in a conjugal way, that's at least new in the sense of the law, but maybe not so new if we look to experience in the last ten months. The question may just arise: Is this just about to improve under the action taken so far? I'm not going to answer it, but I'm not in a position to do it, and I may not be the main thing in this matter's treatment. As an example of new recommendations in this bill, there are instructions for screening, for infecting virus, and for the purpose of signaling people for screening. It's a novelty. Current legislation has not anticipated this action. Then I want to draw special attention to what I think is necessary to explain much more in these laws, especially in the light of experience and the actions that have been undertaken so far on the basis of current law. Whether the current law authorized it can be disputed. That's action against healthy people. Of course, there are clear measures in the current law, and this code also discusses them, to infected people, and to suspected persons. Somewhere I could see the concept of a suspect that people were infected, had been cut off in the processing of the bill. I think I'm right about the comment or if something has changed with the bill's contract or if it is suggested that it be eliminated in the current law. It is a secondary factor, but it is said to take action against people who are suspected to be infected. However, there is a third group of people, and there are people who can't be assumed to be infected but who may be unaware of someone who is in some place but who does not necessarily associate with those who are confirmed to be infected. Then it's rather far gone, mine knows that it's automatically suspecting people to be infected. I believe this needs to be considered in particular on the bill. I'll give you an example in 1 1. . g., about actions against people on the border in order to prevent epidemic epidemics from being passed to Iceland, which discuss the need for tourists to undergo a physical examination that is as light as possible to achieve a goal. As such, invasive measures should be taken only to those suspected of being infected. In view of all the seemingly apparent research, it's a lot to count that everyone in e.g. An airplane that has traveled by one or two or even more infected are infected. On the contrary, there are many cases of travelling with tuberculosis, such events that regularly arise, and there is no reason to take special precautions when it comes to such travel. If the bill authors think it's possible to place everyone, e.g. In a plane under the same hat, I think there's a lot of money in it. But this is what I encourage the committee to discuss. I'd especially like to mention what I think stands out, and that's a change in the role of a disease prevention offense. I've noticed that this approach has not been greatly covered by a preventative approach, at least little search for a disease prevention or the impression of a disease prevention victim from the media. I'm surprised that people don't want to hear the opinions of those who are in the treatment of disease prevention, but there are some kinds of experts, doctors, and others, other health professionals too. In current legislation, the European Commission is appointed as a secretary to advise on the environmental policies of disease prevention. However, it is suggested that the risk of disease prevention be assigned to a pathologist for consultation with Disease Control policies and thus to be entrusted with these policies. I would think for him the risk of losing the expertise that many people are so trained to count important in all of these things is due to not only one particular infectious disease. During the shape of a path to disease prevention, the matter must be viewed in a complete way and from many perspectives, both medical, ethical, and legal. I would have thought that this would be more of a reason to promote the disease prevention in my work, thus allowing a psychiatrist to have more time for his work and not add further burden to the office under the surgeon of the land. This is what I think the committee should be very thorough. So, finally, I'd like to mention curfews, which I've heard a lot of bad guys. Councilmen here give a warning, and I take it to heart. I don't think there's any evidence that there is a general legal warrant for such an enormously burdensome operation, and by no means in the way recommended, which is that it is in the hands of a psychiatrist, just to evaluate it and to recommend it to a minister to set out the rule of total curfew. I think it's too much, and I'm going to let myself claim that this is all too much power for government officials and ministers. Besides, I'd also like to give a warning to the idea that the General Assembly will be put in the position of establishing a general law on curfew because, of course, the whole administration is tied to the Constitution's regulations on certain basic rights of human beings and, of course, can't allow itself to impose any kind of law, can in general limit these important rights. If this right is to be impaired, it must be for a very specific purpose, and for a very clear purpose, and all laws that depend on such impairment, it must be very clear. For example, if you think there is a great need to put a curfew on account of the crown virus, I would think the legislation on it would have to be: a law is set on curfew. two December 1st through the morning. December 3 10th, or something like that, or a shorter period of time with a specific support. Such a case would be treated in a judicial way where a person could weigh all the data and really need to resort to such legislation. I find it in a lack of argument to refer to a curfew by almost normal practice in the countries around us, a rule rather than an exception to setting various forms of curfews. In this regard, I would like to point out that in many countries there are now a lawsuit over such curfews and in some countries, including In Germany, judgment has been passed, at least in a subcommittee, which has made an illegal curfew decision. These matters are going to be, I think, very much to be discussed in the law all over the world in the next few years. So I don't think there's any reason why we should start setting legal clearances for Ministers to put curfews in the way that this bill is done. I want to say right down to last, I see that I've made a point of it, that it also stands out inconsistencies here as well as the method of freedom-specting people who don't cooperate when they have to get them in sickness or isolation. It is suggested here that it be done without a court order. However, it is up to the individual to be permitted to bring the matter to justice. This is a complete novelity, totally contrary to our laws of rights, in which people are expected to seek the authority of a court of liberation. I think there should be a special look at this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u97	President. In the rest of my life, I took it to the authority to look at people of freedom. Whatever was told me, when I spoke to Páll, the son of Hreinsson at the open meeting, was that there was a warrant in 14. G., that if people went into isolation, were in isolation, they should be in accordance with the Constitution, and according to the Centers for Disease Control should represent their case before the judge. The Constitution says so. Páll says that in 4 mg. Sixty-seven. The Constitution says this is true if you are subject to freedom on some basis, and he says that being in isolation and also under siege is a loss of freedom. As a result, he proposes that if you are ordered to do so as in isolation, you can request a court order to determine the legitimateness of that decision. I don't know if I don't understand the Senator's error, but I really want this clearly, as it's stated in the law now. I may not have read it well enough. How does the senator read this law? Isn't that the way it is, just like if you look at freedom on some other grounds, as it is now in this bill that it's being fixed as it was about 14. saying that you are just ahead of you. If you're under arrest, you can say, "I protest." Then you will be called before a judge who will decide. Am I right? Isn't that the way it's being fixed? If this is how it is being corrected, we are moving toward what the Constitution says, but it has not been carried out - or there has been one case. I noticed that because Páll mentioned it, I specifically asked about it, he said: "This is under the constitution, although it is not in the law concerning the districts, that it should be done, otherwise it should be done to the people according to 4. Sixty-seven. This was shown in the opening of the meeting. So I talked to Víðir and showed him this view right away, just so the government would start applying the Constitution, even if it wasn't legal authority. He was very good at it. I've heard people have been allowed to go to court with this. [[The president calls.]] I just wanted this to be explained to you by the senator, because this is an important point.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u98	A respectable president. Of course, there is no legal issue. You can shoot any case in court. It doesn't have to be specifically stated by the law, as it is said here, that it is permitted to be ruled by the state. It is, in fact, quoted here in the Constitution too, which is as fine as it is, because, of course, good references are never too often. However, it says that measures recommended in this administration plan that make free - minded people, put in isolation, or be diseased under local law, such as the Constitution is required. I'm not making comments about it. I'm making notes or pointing to it at least I think the committee should take a special look at this. This suggests that a disinfectant may decide that the person will be in a biocontaminated and insulation. He can even take this administrative decision orally, that is specifically stated. In general, it is permitted to make decisions orally, as required here, to do so in writing as soon as possible. But I'm pointing out that it would be better if people didn't put it in the hands or initiatives of the freedom-maker to bear it under judgment -- I'm just saying that they can be in all kinds of conditions if it's a freedom face and they're getting sick for it - but they're doing it as if it's a matter of freedom-specting other people, that they're asked for a court order in advance that they're being judged and they're convinced that they need freedom face it. This doesn't have to be called for that long. The law can be given for an hour or a day or something, but within 24 hours the case is judged.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u99	President. Four. Sixty-seven. The Constitution says that anyone who is freed for any other reason has the right to the court's rights as quickly as possible. If the demurrery of liberation is not legal, he will immediately be released. This is a law that applies to the 14th chapter. the contracts they are today, that's at least what I was led to believe, and I've been talking to the Ministry and other parties. And now, let it apply to the convalescents as well. The procedure has not been clear enough, although the Constitution says so. I think it's a good thing if you're in this bill to move it towards protecting this constitution. Then it's just like when the police arrest people and have to put them under a judge as soon as possible, it's as if they say, "You've got to go in isolation for disease reasons." So it is in the law this day, that it must be carried under the judges. It is not as if people have to take the initiative in paying for an attorney and going before a judge. Rather, it is the authority to take care of themselves because they have to do the case before a judge, and this individual can appear before the judge in that process. So it is with 14. Er, I've been led to believe. Looks like the bill's gonna pass it over 15. ..... for the disease, that is, for isolation in the 14th chapter of parsity. that, as Páll the son of Hreinsson suggests, at the end of the seven years, I think it's a good thing to do, but if the Senator understands it, it would be good to know, because then we need to make a special examination.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u100	A respectable president. I don't know what it's like in the law right now. I'm just watching the bill as it is today and showing that it hasn't been tested under current law. It hasn't been put to the test that men don't cooperate, that infected individuals won't leave... that I know I haven't put this directly to the test. [[A couple of times.]] But it is quite clear to put such issues to the test, so that they are actually under compulsion or have the authority of the police, they have the right, of course, the right to handle the case under law. I'm just wondering if it's sufficient to ensure that, only by the constitution, a person can carry this under the courts, or if it would even be better to have it on this bill, so that a psychiatrist should not allow for a court order for all such government decisions. Of course, he may recommend this, but it would then be stated that within 24 hours, a psychiatrist or the government should confirm his decision by court order.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u101	That's the way it is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u102	It may be that way today, that I may be getting the wrong idea here, and then maybe it's just about to go away from the system that's today. That would make me feel that it wasn't normal. But I'm not sure that this has been so tried, as I say, because, fortunately, the infected have been very cooperative and hopefully there will be no change.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u103	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to correct the change in state's payment laws on criminal toleration, No. 69/1995. An importer is Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, my fine party brother and colleague here. I'm just gonna go over a few numbers, and I think it's a reason to mention them, because, really, we're mainly fighting for this because the legislatator has let it pass by letting these improvements go along with the cost of development for years. As stated in 1st paragraph. The bill we want to make the following changes to Article 7. The law: Instead of developing a 2nd team. is $250,000. We would like to have 435,000 standing there. Instead of b-joining 2.mg. it's 5 million. A. k., which seems to be a maximal failure no matter how serious the tragedy may be, we suggest there's 8.7 million there on the bill. K. In the c-mer 2.mg. We want 3 million instead. K. Come on, 6,520,000 bucks. Instead of 2.5 million. K. 2 mg. We want 4.350,000 coming in. Instead of 1.5 million. K. in the E team 2 mg. We want 2.7 million. K. Then we want to add another paragraph, as follows: BN 0 - 0 - 0 - 0 (x 0) 1st and 2nd. changes at the beginning of each year should be made in accordance with the evolution of a pay marker from baseline to the end of the next twelve months period, although they will never increase less or decrease more than the price of an index value. Two. According to the bill, this law is derived from January 1, 2021, which is said to be just around the corner. The bill was previously transferred to a 149th and 150th legislature. I have recommended this case at two legislators, but we are clearly subsidized, so it is fairly clear that those who tolerate crime may continue to live without the correction of these benefits through financial development, a drop in luck, and a rising yield, and everything. It's kind of amazing. This is no other step but perhaps in the code of the law, which should really be a matter of course. I carry this bill unchanged, except that money has been changed in line with the development of the pay marker since the original bill was submitted to a 149. Credits as state funds guarantee on the basis of a law on the payment of state funds for crime benefits are limited to 2 mg. 7. The law. The amount laid down there has remained unchanged, and now note, since 2012. For eight years, the Lawgiver has not been able to step in and modify this article of the damage laws that require the reform rights of those who have become victims of crime. The Lawgiver has not yet had reason to accept it. This is a fine opportunity for the government, and now in election winter, to gather into the sea and to be bold and effective. There is no need for much boldness and effort simply because we are speaking of correction. We're trying to get these benefits into the prices they were eight years ago, in 2012, that's as simple as that. As we all know, changes in prices have also been made, and improvements in penalties have developed according to these prices. There is a problem with existing legislation that these sums do not develop in accordance with prices. When the last money was changed, in June 2012, you would think of the pay sheet, based on the national site of Iceland's Habitat of 1989, at 433.1 points, which is now 734.6 points. If so, it is not likely that she will be able to increase significantly in the future. It's really gonna have to step in and change the unfair arrangement that's being left there like a hippie in a hand brake, completely rusty. For the above reasons, a donation is suggested according to 2 mg. 7. Raise it, as I've said before. The impact of crime on life and its well - being is becoming increasingly evident. Such effects are difficult to assess based on medical guidelines. Although the physical effects of fractures are assessed, it is harder to assess the spiritual effects, the effects can often be observed or increased long after the fracture is committed and until improvement is judged or determined. If so, it would be wish for such an increase in the responsibilities of the state's funds to encourage courts to determine a higher degree of improvement in serious cases than has been observed. It is also suggested that, according to 2 mg, the amount of money be permanently increased. 7. Every year, in accordance with the change in pay number, as I mentioned at the outset. How important it is that we associate with everything we're doing with the remuneration scale so that we don't always become a gradification, so that these few dollars that are being handed away from the government will not always fall away and grow smaller and smaller until they end up like a tiny dwarf in the corner. As per 1 mg, the requirement for improvement should also be minimal. 7. g., according to changes in the pay number. It is normal that the change in the amount of money should be done at the rate of the year before, and the rate of remuneration will be based on the development of the previous year. Since the pay number may be reduced in the event of a sudden economic deterioration, as I listed earlier, it may be in relation to the index price of consumption if it has increased more or decreased in terms of a year than the pay number. In fact, I'm not going to have more words about this, not only to stress that it is ironic to put this legal column and this article into the cold completely and not really going to correct and make up for the things that were supposed to be improved, as far as possible. I will only encourage the entire body of Congress to be admired in that we are only here, and I reiterate it, to call upon correction that should have been done many years ago, and the sum should have been included in this eight years of normal development on the market, a pay number in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u104	A respectable president. We're here on the people's prime call about raising money, which is not just a matter of choice but simply necessary, because, unfortunately, the fact is that when a government by the government puts in some kind of numbers, they never raise and, as a result, reduces them year by year. The differences observed here, from 5 billion to 8.7 million, are a clear reduction. This amount has been dropped. So those affected or victimized by violence and, as a result, they have a right to make compensation far less than they have the right to receive. And yet it's not much. Unfortunately, it's just a fact that it's all over the system. It's the exact same game everywhere. We'll see this in the social security system. We'll see that the average perks are 100,000. the income of micro-germs, but should be 200,000 if correctly calculated. Strength. It is systematic and deliberate to enter only a fixed number without any rise. We also know that according to page 69. Social security legislation should improve the social security rate, but as a precaution, it should never be less than a consumer reference number. The exact same thing should be valid here. When practical, the pay card should be checked, but when it is below the level of inflation, it should be valid. As originally used, e.g. with a social security law where it was meant to be guaranteed, in a fixation, with a belt and shoulder ties, it was supposed to be definitely that the most practical result would always come, but it is not. We must also realize that those who get involved in this business - and it's also a little strange that it's also about the damage laws, where the game's playing. In fact, it is more ugly because of paying and that is not done. So it goes down a year ago. As a result, victims of accidents and insurance companies are making a lot of money. We need to realize that those who also receive these benefits can be young ones, women, men, and health, spiritual and/or physical health, work, and work. Those who get really bad out of this - we realized that the maximum damage there is 8.7 billion. A.K., they're pennies. What about the lowest improvement, some $250,000. but it should be 435,000. In most cases, it's not a huge compensation, but it's certainly better if they adhere to the pay number and are pretty much right on the basis of the original amount. I'm not going to have much more to say about this, but it's something to say to the government: the government and the state funds first, then the people. But we say to the people first and then to the rest. There is no question that we have our priorities straight.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u105	A respectable president. You're not coming here for the first time to fight for the underdog and those who have to rely on the progress of social security. I recommend a bill to legalize social security legislation, No. 100/2007. With me on the bill, my good body member and colleague, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. So in this bill, we're about to step down on page 69. I'll fix your social security, just like that. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson referred to earlier, and we've got a lot of things going on around here. We want this article to say: social security, as well as pay Sixty-three. and sums of money. 22nd g., should be changed annually according to the pay sheet, although it will never increase less than the prices measured by the index price. Actually, that's 69 C.E. and that's why we've been looking at the legality of making a legal case with the Icelandic state on behalf of the social security services that we believe this 69.g. has been broken, because it says in the article that all forwards and corrections should be adjusted to match the pay number. The fact is, the jewels have always improved. Now, in the long - term population of the country, those who have to rely on the striped progress of social security, the industry has done no more or less than 29% in recent years. It's kind of pure indistinguishable. We have decided that this article will be clear enough that there will be no doubt that the lawgiver, and anyone who sits at each time in the government, and who controls the wheel, simply will not be able to enter the index price of consumption because it will get better out of the state's budget and public security system because they will have to pay a much lower supply to the individuals they've been able to pin into the poverty trap. To think, if it's not a malicious system, I don't know what it is. 2.g. The bill says that the law will remove the 7th, 12th, 15th, and 17th sections of a provisional law. Section 3. says: "This law is already valid, but carried out during the pressures of public pay in 2021, due to the income of 2020, which will be the next year, when we count the payoff of 2020. I'm just going to read from a paper with the bill submitted to the 150th legislature but failed to succeed. The reviews given to the welfare committee were generally described as a delight in the subject of the bill. Who is listening to such things when a group of government officials receive reviews for a fixed committee that even describes their enjoyment and support, even encouraging and even encouraging the success of this issue to be done exactly at the General Assembly? No, a respectable president, as we know, who is in a position of government, does not care whether we present 30 cases, 40 cases or 50 cases, they are totally disrespectful and pushy in most of the time, and we do not enter the 2nd. unless we put up a hard fight for it when we're either finishing our contracts for vacation vacations, Christmas holidays, or Easter, that's when the government is trying to use those tools to try to negotiate a case. Imagine that. Although all cases are cut off in committees, even though the committees have been drafted, they have all been given to come and support their statements and follow them, all pacified and set for the 2nd Environment. to the Hall of Congress. But no. This may have been part of the council, but these are the actual activities of the council. It is quite unbelievable to have to face it. I'd have expected that, and I'd have imagined that, at least. The people's party - a man so blue-eyed with his brown eyes that you even imagined that this was a real democracy, that we would be allowed to take these matters into the council, which are for further consideration in the great Senate hall, where our deportation is carried out, and that they would be elected. But some things are more unpleasant than others. It must be a great comfort to be in a government that hits like a wet rag all the time in the face of those that should least be, to whom they really ought to put their arms around and help. This method has often been used to get rid of the global population of showing how easy it is to settle one thing after another, how you just press the red button, and just: get out of the case, we don't take part in this anymore, and so on. So according to Article 69, pars. pricing on social security will improve social security, cohesion pay at 63 p.m. The law and the money, according to the 22nd paragraph, will be paid. changes every year in accordance with financial laws. Their decision should take into account pay development, although it will never increase less than the price of the consumer price. In fact, this means that there are two sections in this article, the pay sheet, and the consumer figure. If the consumption scale is reduced, the others should be used for the social security. But what governments have done is that they have taken the consumer science number precisely because it is lower, in order to place fewer dollars for each year's performance at the microchip and the pensioner who have to rely on the progress of social security. It has been possible to plan initially to ensure that microattainers and pensioners will use the increase in dispositional wastes to the same extent that the public did, but in reality it has been the same as we know, and it seems to be the principle today. It appears that the index of consumer prices is accompanied by improvement, although it is much lower than the pay sheet. Where the Council serves the budget, according to Article 41. The Constitution and current legislation commits the General Assembly to determine improvements, the courts feel that it is out of their role to determine whether the right to rise. Therefore, we suggest that there is no doubt about it, that it is not a conscious financial minister or any other government minister to determine that because it is inexpensive, it is only good enough in these public security officials to get as low adevelopment of their poverty as possible. However, the bill suggests that money improvements and other payments under the social insurance laws take into account the development of pay, as stated earlier, and must be considered perfectly reasonable, since compensation on the basis of the law is generally required to replace employment that a invalid cannot earn or that a pensioner does not enjoy. At such times, a government fund has increased when pay is raised, as the source of the income tax is increasing. And so there is a agreement between the increased budgets and the increased income of social security. It is suggested, though, that improvements will never increase less than the prices of the index price. In fact, there is never enough climbing to do this, and I don't know, a respectable president, about the divine power that could prevent us from following the law. Well, let's not forget that your social security compensations are no dressbacks. That's exactly what we're always pointing at. They don't get ups on top of one thing or anything. They do not have a chance of going to a strike and calling for improvement in their interests. All they have to do is extend the rows outside relief agencies to ask for food. That's reality today, Mr. Honorable President, that's what we're looking at every day and also on this year's trip, Covid. It's terrible to have to watch. It is more painful than tears that there is a government around here that makes this happen. That there's a government here that says: we're collecting 600 billion dollars over the next two years to deal with the Covid epidemic. But what are they doing for the poorest people in the country? They are in good hands to ensure that they will never receive less than what is normal and go to the national pay market each time. They're in the palm of the hand. And I call their consciences that they show it by their actions that it is what they want and that it is all they want. So every 1 January it's not decided to throw away 3.2%, 3.5%, or a few bucks in the social security service, no matter whether it's about 10%, 20%, or anything, no matter what the supplies have increased, I don't know how much. Rent prices, real estate prices, all charges are coming out of every corner, it doesn't matter. That they do not increase more than any X percent, 3.5%, 3.6%, even if the pay grade has even increased by 7%. It's a fair matter. This is a matter that all of us should be able to support, and all of us should agree that it should go through, and only at once.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u106	A respectable president. We're here to discuss another bill from the people's Floki about a sum of benefits, 69. g. Unfortunately, it has to be said, just as it is, that the government by the government has violated social security patients and on 69 p.m. The man in his time who gained compensation for pay development was Davíð Oddsson, and if I recall correctly, he said that there had already been a guarantee that the rise to the pensioners of social security had come with shoulderbands and belts so that they would have a righteous rise. But what are we talking about here in human language? Yes, today it is showing that the pay sheet is about 6% and more. What are poorer and older citizens to receive for the next year? They are not to be paid, they are to be given only 3.6%. The difference has reached 2.4%. Last in a special discussion, I spoke to the highest. Secretary of finance on these matters. Then it was found that the budget calculates them with pay development of 5.1%. I asked why, in effect, the pensioners were up to 3.6%, if they themselves calculated to be paid by more than 5%. The report was what they called the cow's skunk, and it had to be detracted. Imagine the show, think of the disrespect. They make something to draw it from those on the lowest pensions in the country. They do everything they can to keep people who are trying to reach 220,000 bucks. get an increase according to the 69rd paragraph. If this bill gets through, we'll guarantee them an increase. This shows black in white how government by government has behaved in these matters. If they'd gone after 69 C.E. and social security workers would have had their pay development, just as senators and others did, the increase would not be less than 30% for older citizens and micropunchers. Would they remember today? You can only imagine if people don't need up to 60,000,700,000. More pay. That would be important. This also occurs when the crash occurred and was dropped by 10%, but they promised to be the first people to be corrected, of course, the first people to be betrayed. [[To the point: It's the only people left.]] These people are always left behind, always a government by government. And what do they do? Yes, they're elections, and now elections are ahead, with the old election stocks, dusted off them, promising all the beautiful crowns against a penny off. But they didn't mean it, they meant 65 bucks, against a dollar. Now they say they're going to raise everything up, but it's gonna go right into an election drawer. And it will be exactly the same when the next government replaces this one. Why? Because it is usually the fourth group that controls it. It's kind of sad to think of how this group is treated. Besides the fact that we need to understand in this context that in 1988 this group was tax free. Well, think about it if he had no tax today and had 30% in a pension fund, as it was at this time. Check it out. That would be between 220,000 and 350,000. tax and inadequacy. The saddest part of all of this is that if the government were to act immediately on 6% of the rule, they would have shoulder ties and belts in chain-based losses because every dollar entering into it would be counted as income and income would reduce something, e.g. Credit rent and all kinds of things. It sucks that it's going to take years to build a system like this, such a gap, a holes in an improvement system where they put in one dollar and take out two cents or put in a dollar and make people think they're getting something but then taking back one dollar back, that dollar in return. There's always been a decrease. It's not only part of social insurance, it's going out for that, and it goes over to a farm partner, in a special mortgage that's going to get in the same way. This is a lousy system that has been established and spent by government by government. We have to change that. It's not supposed to be this way to sick people, and it sucks that we treat our senior citizens who have built up the country this way. We know that it's good for many people, but it doesn't excuse others'having that shit. We're supposed to make sure that people can live with dignity, that they don't have to starve, that they don't have to line up after food, and in no way have to be in a position like that. not for medical or medical treatment. Now, we're all supposed to think about the people first, so let's think about the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-25-25.u107	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to change the social security law, No. 100/2007, with subsequent changes (preservation center for pension income). I'll come up here and measure the third matter of the Shock People, the party that says, "The people first, and then the rest." The interest in social security and what we're doing here is not great. We're here two at the councilroom, me and what. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, and move on as we have promised, as we have always done. Without the public and voters' support, we wouldn't be here and none of them would be making a recommendation. But with me on the bill, it's like my most distinguished member of the council, and a member of the council, here at the council, right now. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. In 1st. The bill says: ◯4. A sentence. 1.mg. 23rd par. The law says, "So shall the pensioner have 1,200 thousand." a special vacation target for employment and 1,200,000 dollars. a special vacation target for pension income. We of the people have twice previously given a bill on a waiting list, where we recommend that all the jobs of the elderly be removed. What are many elderly ones who, when they are in retirement, who really trust to continue working? Why not encourage these people to be joyful? Despite the fact that government funds have nothing to lose but to win, why do you want to damage them in every direction? I don't give much for the report we got from the highest level. Social and child-friendly, with all due respect, for the reasons for her, how she had been won and so on, I have never really seen. They are completely out of the map compared with previously made reports showing that by removing all the decrease in income from the elderly, a trust fund would make money. This was the report and the report we had previously received from a specialist. But what we're measuring for now, with this bill, is 1,200,000 bucks. a special vacation market for pension income. I'm going to go back to 2 g's. It is recommended that this law be applied immediately in January 2021. The bill article says that the bill was submitted to a 149th legislature, 896th case, and 150th legislature, an 83rd, but not paid off. Because of what we're doing here, there's a case that goes to the public and the media. Rather, we are this small group, which is said to be tiny, even though we are offering one of the most. There's a bit of a quiet situation out there. It is not popular to have such a poverty party that wants to break the poverty trap of those who are put here into society like the second, third and fourth - rate members of society. That's exactly what we do, me and what we do. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, has had to live through our disability. Therefore, those in the social security system are very close to us, touching us in our hearts, because we have stood exactly in that situation, and we certainly know how miserable it is to never make ends meet and always be fighting and never know how on earth a man will survive, let alone when Christmas is ahead. Oh, my God, what a feeling for those who have no salt for themselves and who have their children and their family to think about, and who have the mind of what we have been taught to be holy Christmas, who can't give them anything, can't buy one single Christmas gift, can't even afford a steak at Christmas table; they have to pray between Heródes and Pílatus to ask for food. The presence of such social groups in the community is a everlasting disgrace. I'm totally at peace with it while there's billions of debt collections here for no other reason than to put my arms around those whose feet are in the community. So this bill is put forward for the third time. There's a pension rights coming up. The person on pension rights has a little more than the person on the striped tax of social security. But that does not change the fact that a person with some pension rights has it because he has been in a job market. He's been legalized into a pension fund. He didn't ask for it. He had nothing to say, in some cases he could choose in what pension fund he wanted to lay his salary, what in many cases tortured to pay off his salary. Not all agree on how their money is handled, 15.5% of what people are making. Not everyone is happy about that. Many have also said that they could have preferred to do their own business. In historical context, the general average average of holiday pay is very low, and the aim of this bill is to increase fairness in the social security system and encourage saving of pensioners by reducing damages. With law No. 116/2016, changes in social security and other laws, including The change in the social security pension system has been made that all special vacation limits due to individual types of income have been removed. Instead, one general payoff target of 25,000 dollars was registered. per month. It was that simple thing that was being done on the system. Everything was put under the same hat. Now there's only one holiday goal in terms of the pension fund and all that pay. It was $25,000. This is true of all the incomes of the pensioner, regardless of species, only about $25,000 is reduced.: You're disabled, my friend, you're in the chain, you're in the restricted chain, thank you. With law No. 96/2017 was also laid off by a special payout for employment, as shown in Article 4. 23rd par. track No. 100/2007, on social security, but according to social and child-reporting information, except for the total down-and-out pensioner in terms of a pension fund - mark - 37,556 billion dollars. every year; up to 38 billion dollars. every year. This was evident when a group of people did judicial work on behalf of the elderly against the State, when the State had made money for them because of an unauthorized pension fund. By January and February 2017, when laws and simple laws were being simplified, the government's authority to impair the elderly because of the income of pension had fallen. She just dropped that warrant. A group of people stood up and brought it up. We won the case, and then we found out what the actual amount of money is being affected by the elderly, the sum of the huge amount. Older citizens themselves have saved for their pension share. Pension companies are not remunerations that come from employers at the end of their working years. Thus, there is a decrease in the damage caused by pension income, indirect impairment of the interests of older citizens who have earned their work through the years. This is truly remarkable. I don't know if I'm going to go any further into it, but we've got all the numbers and pills on how much it would cost to eliminate all the impairments, what would cost to eliminate all the losses of pensions, how much this will cost and how much more. I'm not gonna talk about it. But I can only say this: Unchecking all impairments will cost you a violation of what the pensions would have to pay for a trust fund. If we were to cancel the release rights of the pension fund, we'd get a state fund of over 70 to 90 billion dollars. In a year that is far more than enough to eliminate all the impairments and promise only to be at peace with what we've been doing without the reach of a government, who hardly knows if they're coming or leaving when they're staging a system, extending out our hand, and reaching it here at the same time that they're cutting it much more at the other locations. The right hand doesn't know what the left is doing, and this social security system and this system that's being offered to the people of the country is up-to-date. It's like my noble coven, huh? paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, has said: "It's like Frankenstein this insurance system, and it's not for anyone under the sun to try to define it or understand it except by going to a special course or trying to get a PhD in what goes on. If ever there was a wish to step outside the box, to stop hanging like dogs on the redness of a handmade system and to work for the people of the country, for all, not just some, things would certainly be different. It was very moderate on the part of older citizens. They were talking about raising that payback target, from $25,000. a month, which is naturally such a wretched amount that half of it was enough. They did not ask to take it away. No, they were just asking for an increase to 100,000 dollars, to raise this holiday target to 100,000 bucks. That's exactly what this bill for law, the people's party here, is about. That's exactly what we're giving the third time here. When we show up here at a new council, after a new election, we will recommend it for the fourth time and for the fifth and sixth times, and we will never give up. For one thing is certain: The party of the people puts the people in first place. We say to the people first, so to speak.
