ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-85.u1	So far in all the parts of the program that too little time has passed since these discussions have been discussed, so we need to seek approval that the discussion may be taken on. The variants will be viewed without vote if they do not speak out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-85.u2	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here and thank the budget and the Economic and Business Committee for a very good job on the big issues that have been discussed and all the members of the Parliament for cooperation. We all know that here we are taking action to get people to work, to get the business started, to feel the resistance to defend and protect the homes and people of the country. We also know that we may need to do more than make suggestions presented here and be well supported by the council. Thank you for your solidarity. No doubt, we will receive considerable help in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-85.u3	Mr. President. It is clear that there is an Icelandic career that is going through unprecedented time and will put great pressure on the economic and social infrastructure of the country. The Union has supported all the good actions of the government where they can be found. We have supported all the proposals of the states, but it shows that the government groups do not trust to support one of the proposals of the government. I find the sad conclusion, Mr. President, that even during a pandemic, the members of the government cannot rise from political pits. It's a peculiar political bitch, and I condemn the kind of work we once again see in this hall and it's completely unnecessary, much less in those times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-85.u4	Mr. President. The media supports this bill. We have shown a great deal of cooperation and have provided suggestions that we hoped the government would support because this bill has not gone far enough. We need to pay a great deal of money when it comes to restoring jobs, which are, in effect, facing a very difficult situation. We witnessed that governments who have spoken much for cooperation and cooperation in these difficult times are not ready to support the fine suggestions we have offered here to further our efforts. I remind you that the suggestions we've offered are professional, that's what's really important, and they also keep their arms around the groups that are difficult for us in the community because of this. It is most disappointing, Mr. President, that our proposals have not been supported, but we cooperate by supporting these suggestions, although they do not go far enough toward our judgment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-85.u5	A respectable president. We have been told that there is more to do than less in these times. Earlier this evening, there were many suggestions to do twice as much in the investment campaign, with emphasis on the welfare systems that are truly dyspnoea and innovation that are needed in the resistance ahead. This is unfortunate, but even though we are doing less than that, that does not mean that these are bad suggestions. On the contrary, these are good suggestions that we are accepting, which simply means that we need to come back earlier to make new suggestions because this is just the first step of many on the road we are on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-30-85.u6	At the end of this unconventional assembly, the president wants everyone to know what to do. The members of Congress and particularly the presidents thank you for a great deal of cooperation. We have reached this extraordinary assembly day to complete the great work that we have here in very unconventional circumstances. The president would also like to thank the staff of the Generals for an enormous amount of work that has been done during the past few days to make the best of the work possible in such a short period of time.
