ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u1	The president considers it possible for a meeting to last longer than the Council to be held if necessary. Consider it approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u2	At a council meeting on March 12th. transient variations from the Synod were given in order to deviate from the 1st. 17th par. the obligation of members of the Committee to attend a meeting of committees as well as the 22nd chapter. of the Summit's Summit. The variations were so extended until the end of this assembly at a meeting on April 14. As a result of changes in the limitations of meetings for epidemics, the president has decided, having agreed with the Commission and its members, to change the arrangement of regular committees from March 12. First, at a meeting at the General Assembly, members of the Regular Committee will again be held. Therefore, the nominees should normally be present at a meeting place, but those in committees who wish to participate in a meeting of a committee with telecommunications of pathological or health care, are allowed to do so. A denominator who participates in meetings with telecommunications for these reasons is considered to be part of a decision - making meeting, as is still true of the above figures. Second, unless a committee considers that there is a need for a meeting, they should continue to participate in meetings with telecommunications. However, visitors to a committee meeting should never be more than two at a time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u3	The president has decided, having agreed with members of Congress and with the help of the council members, beginning today, meetings are being held in the Senate Hall in a traditional way. Thus, any senator can sit in his seats and vote in the usual way. The temporary arrangement adopted on May 4 of that year. Therefore, the expansion of the meeting area is no longer limited to upper stabilities and side rooms will remain a work area for members of Congress, allowing them to have more room and to observe meetings on screen. As a result, the president wants to report a change to the seating ship but what? 8th yrs That's the north side. "Árnadóttir Colbömnadótttir, "is a seat of No. Thirty-two. Tenth. Smoke. S., Siefstein Sæmundsson, gets seats. 19th
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u4	The President announces that after the House of Congress, there will be a recession until the end of the week. At 11:30, which is when votes begin. Later today, at the end of this meeting, there will be votes, and so will the second meeting of the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u5	A respectable president. Last Monday there was a debate about unemployment in the Southnes and construction of the defensive area. It's black and white who's protecting the South's people. It is the members of the Independence Party that were ashamed of other members of the Southern District of this chair. The chairman of the Conspiracy, huh? paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson, called us members of the Independence Party in South Africa, a gas trucker in these discussions, where we were fighting for people who live at 30% unemployment. Thousands of people, thousands of homes, are without work, and members of Congress are fighting for it are known as "gatherers. " As a matter of fact, a council member of the South Side took over. Harðardóttir And spake of deceit in Helvavik, that the Independence Party had betrayed all manner of building in Helguvík. She did not speak of the structure that was betrayed when she was the minister of finance and was to be agreed by Backka to Helga. I don't think there'll be any work to do by talking about old betrayal. There won't be any work to do. I was sorry that one of the Continental Party members of the South came to agree with this and wants to talk in a calm and quiet manner. In the weeks that follow, thousands of people have to be employed in the South. There will be no formal work involved. I'll go through to red, I'll push down to create jobs. Formal vowes will be no more if jobs do not exist. I challenge the people of the South to stand together to make a living, but not to go to the holes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u6	The president will be the cause of these words. A senator to call attention to this. A senator directed his words to and named one of three other members of Congress or thus pointed to them that it could be identified - the president is talking - some of them a bit harsh. [[Up front.]] It would have been appropriate to do so. The senator would have chosen to direct his words to one of these senators and to alert him because the members of the council there were to be disturbed. A senator is not here on the rosary of the Senate. So the president counts this behavior.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u7	Mr. President. We all know that the forest is growing in Iceland, and there's an increase in transplant. This, of course, is part of the result of climate change and changing weather patterns that can mean further drought, more lightning weather, etc. We'll know at the same time that nature will change. What I'm referring to is simply that plants can grow. We all remember the so-called Micra fires, where 75 miles2 of moo and swamps burned. That was quite a damage. Nature takes a long time to recover. Recently, greenhouses in the Northern Valley were on a much smaller scale and were on a much smaller scale. I believe this increased risk of fire has been called for better defenses. There are powerful fire departments in many places, but it is often very long to go and difficult to deal with. There's a lot of monuments in the bush and forests of Iceland, so I'm referring mostly to summer farms. So I believe that when it comes to planting, we're going to review a project that's a public defense arrangement, and not only that but also a plan of action that's new to the needle. Especially should this be true of a firefighter. We haven't tried that much here, but there's a very important part of this and like the evacuation of people. There, helicopters play a special role. Then there is only one particular giant robe in the country. This can make a difference, so we have to make rules and arrangements, I think it's the monotonous, and define the role of the D.A. and other helicopter companies, which are private as we know. There is a considerable project to be faced, and I will encourage it to be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u8	Mr. President. It is said that good references are rarely said to be too often. That's why I'm going again and again to make the importance of innovation, technology and science for our community to talk about. Icelandic and economic conditions have always been characterized by ignorance. As a result, we have had to rely very much on unique, monotonous jobs, and history teaches us that this is not good. It causes unnecessary fluctuations, expands them, and causes traumas in these areas to be more effective for the economy as a whole and thus for the general public in the country and for the other enterprises. All of this, of course, is daylight. Each time we face trauma in an important business, we say that we must now give more support to the economy. We can't have one article like this. The same is true of all the international institutions that give us economic counsel. The same story tells us that many reports have been made. Can be used there, e.g. By permission of the President, Mckinsey's report from 2012, Charing a Growing Path for Iceland. Somehow, we forget when it runs on the snow, and one branch begins to grow. Of course, the latest example in our history is overgrowth of the financial system, and now the last huge growth in tourism. Once again, we are in that situation. Is it not time for us to take that matter seriously and think in the long run? Despite the fact that the U.S. government, with its members, took an important step in the matter, it is not quite enough for me to do it. That means the lack of long - term thinking. [[The president calls.]] The message to those who can and would like to build new companies based on intelligent, technological, and innovations is not clear enough to rely on long - term support and favorable environments. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's got to be some things to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u9	The President reminds me of a time limit. It's too much to pass 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u10	A respectable president. When's the election? We do not know this, and we should not be allowed to know until one fall or another, perhaps even with absolute certainty. On the other hand, the heads of the government groups have freely expressed themselves about the timing of elections. However, we know that elections are for the spring of Icelandic political life and for good reasons. elections that spring give counsellers time to enter their Ministry, elections in spring also give counselers more time to make budgets for the fall. In contrast, elections include a very short period of time for that type of work. If a new government does come into power, it will remain to a degree with another year's first policy in view of a lack of time working on a budget bill. Why is knowing the timing of election important? Why don't we just go on and do nothing about it until six weeks before the election, as it has actually happened? Yes, governments sometimes explode on short notice, and then there's little to do about having a short time for elections and a short notice on the timing of elections. Of course, a government with the intention of entering the terms of the season should see her own dignity in letting Congress and nation know when they intend to vote. This is important because there is a change in election law, and we know that it is important that it is done as quickly as possible so that as much time goes on, there is a big change in elections and then the election itself. This is a democracy. It's a very important democracy. This affects the work of the council, and this affects informed voters who want to know when they will be reexamined. A respectable president. The timing of the election is not a government private matter that has some kind of button to choose when to vote. It's time for her to inform us all.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u11	A respectable president. Lately, at the council, we've been dealing with the Covid case. We're part-authorized, paid to resign, and now warn us that we're actually opening up people and let the state come back to the government, and then we're going to break every bargain deal. But we often forget to take into account this matter of Covid. Is it a Covid problem when a car rises by 1.5 million due to the change in the Covid pandemic? Should a disabled person be stuck with the inability to get rid of his car and not be able to go to work? That's a Covid thing we're supposed to solve. Is that normal, and is it not a Covid issue, when all hospital procedures stop? People are on a waiting list, already six months, even nine months, twelve more months. People are swallowing ten strong pain tablets a day and three, four tablets for side effects. Isn't it the case of Covid if we leave these people three, six, nine, twelve more months to the pathetic situation of swallowing medication? Isn't it also Covid's business if these people are older citizens and have to go to the pharmacy and take these drugs out of serials? How far will we take care of established companies with such proposals and remunerations but forget the smallest of our brothers, the ones to whom we are to help, and we are to help first? But, unfortunately, this government will not think of it. First it will save the rich, and then the others will eat what is outside.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u12	President. ASI sent mail to members of the council this morning, pointing out that the new way in which the government is to support the companies, which means that the government's budget is paying off notice to the companies, that after people have been run and on notice, the company could hire the person again at a lower salary. We'll call for the reinstatement of the situation on the Economic and Business Committee again and review that point. However, this should not be surprising to the members of the committee; this is exactly what happened. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy points out in his committee photo on the matter. It says, by permission of the president: At the expense of a government fund, the workers will be assigned to work on notice. At the end of the notice, the employer is encouraged to invite a worker who was retreated with the same collective contract rights that he had before, but not necessarily the same salary, if they were higher than a collective contract. I hope it's enough for ASI to point this out and hopefully it'll be fixed. But let's just take this together. Actions were initiated where people were allowed to reduce their employment rate but still receive 90% of their pay. That's the way it went. Why? To keep the recruitment relationship, to keep people working. Then the government takes a complete U-turn in this case and suggests that a large percentage of the companies in Iceland, which we don't even know how big - is 25% or is that 50%? - run their employees and they become some kind of government employee working for them for three months. Then they can hire again, but they may have a lower salary. This operation is fully and completely in the interest of jobs, but not in the interests of remuneration; a total U-turn from trying to maintain a recruitment relationship to pushing companies into firing employees and recruiting back on a lower salary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u13	A respectable president. The part - time ministry hit the finish line, but there was great uncertainty when the council approved it. More than 37,000 people have used the route, and these people are involved in employment relations with fewer than 6,500 remuneration workers. The objective was to contribute to maintaining recruitment relations with employees as much as possible, though there would be a decrease in employment rate due to temporary management problems and the closing of society. The way of business involves increasing the right of employees to unemployment benefits, not the right of companies to support government funds. However, in addition to employers' remuneration, it reduces the labour costs, improving the management conditions of the linked enterprises. In addition, I consider the cohesion of the part - time work and the pay of an entombment to prevent disease prevention and support many in obeying Víðir. Now that the underlying issue is being clarified and well understood, we must be careful that the frame does not become too narrow. It continues to protect people's survival, support companies, and increase the likelihood that society's income will get as fast as possible. Granted, such a system may offer misuse, and it presents a challenge to the laws of the Lawgiver, to the direction of the government, to social care, and to the social responsibility of an enterprise. Already the code has been reduced and the sun is being seen through the stream, there will continue to be a test of individual cooperation, management, business, and government. A company has to show community responsibility in evaluating the need for public resources, but we also place our trust in the imagination of minors as big employers in all sectors, we create new jobs and new income. One of these may be rethinking employees and the target group where companies are looking for employees.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u14	A respectable president. I was going to talk about something other than this morning's meeting with a surveillance committee and a financial committee with a state accountant on the part-way report moved me to change my mind. I have small problems because I supported the aims of the law's reforms that are relatively broadly defined. Yet, there is one factor that is relatively narrowly defined and that is not being followed. There is an assessment of the effect of the road and costs. True, conditions were changed to the council. It was granted permission for smaller employment rates, higher total pay, 90% of pay and some of these, which slightly increase the cost of impact assessment. The evaluation was not revised, but based on the changes made it should not have multiplied extensively. The original assessment of influence was nearly 800 million. Now we have a figure of many, many billions, more than 20. We have a budget bill of 37 billion for this plan. It must be that when the government accepts the law from the council, they need to examine all the restrictions the law has, including the constitution that it can only be paid for, take into account the resources provided by the bill, assessments of the impact, and the approved ones for that effect. When the figure is so much higher than the figure mentioned in the bill, the government will have to come back to the council and ask: Was that definitely what you were supposed to do? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u15	A respectable president. On this occasion, and after an incident, I want to draw attention to the response of a marine eco-efficiency minister because, less than a year after a new law on changing fish farming laws was adopted on June 20, 2018, which was designed to frame the environment of fish farming and the environmental requirements for the work to be done within, marine and agricultural ministers still have not set up regulations to be set up by him. As a result, the institutions dealing with fire - related issues find it difficult to keep working. Two. The law of the committee is requested by the minister to appoint a Regulation. In the 3rd. The law, which bears the ensigning Changing Marine Areas, says, by permission of the President: ▪ The secretary will set up a Regulation to provide further details on the division of marine zones, the advertisement, the distribution of firelands, the terms of distributions, what is considered to be the most favourable offer and revocation of tenders. Seven. in which the risk assessment of genetic preparation is considered, the Minister shall implement a Regulation. It even says, by permission of the president: The package should take into account the best available technology and the best way to contribute to a environmentally friendly operation. Let's go, 11th, 13, 15, 17 and 20. it is requested by the minister of Regulation. Over a year later, these regulations have not been set up, and institutions that carry out these laws feel that in part they cannot continue working on a case because of this. In view of the opening words of the president, I should probably have pushed a seafaring minister in this indication, but I would have allowed a president to measure the scope of the criticism of a minister. Instead, I would like to challenge a minister to set up and finish his work on the regulations either cause the development and investments to be delayed or the environment has not been moved to the point of view.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u16	A respectable president. Yes, indeed, we've turned off the box of state. The tap stands completely open and melts out of it in every direction. As strange as it seems to be, despite all our good intentions, we have not been able to see that here are people who abuse their favor and the salvation we are sending out to society. I'd like to give a little example. It is said that this year, the state's funds in their rescue package will send no less than 300,000 million. K. Into society, up to 300 billion dollars. I prefer to speak to millions, to about 300,000 million, because there are 25 billion of them with kindness. K. to poor people, to relief agencies that should feed poor Icelanders, standing in rows in their troubles and asking for food; 25 million. K. and one dollar has not yet been returned. Now Iceland's Family Help has shut down her appointments, had tried to make donations every active day. I would also like to mention that we took 30 million single - trade operations to the U.S.A. There are over 700 people on the waiting list, while their elf dealer, and all their resources are now ahead. The Elvish sale has failed completely, and has given them some 50 million. K. every year. In this, we put 30 million of the 300,000 million we are putting into the community for rescue. What does this tell us, Mr. Honorable President? So there are certain social groups in the community that are not worth putting their arms around and not saving properly, nor are they putting in $1 million of this money.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u17	A respectable president. I was going to talk about false news and information, but I am compelled to respond only to the words of the day. paritaprevir Ásmundur the son of Friðriksson, whom he ordered to drop before him from the platform. I wondered what it is that the senator does not leave for a special discussion here last week and motivates him to practice reading and listening better because he will receive some explanations, at least in the words I dropped, and have also published them on the notebook. In no way was the senator's conduct fitting to him, not wishing to have a place to speak with people, but to use unfounded letters. There are others who get ahead of themselves and should practice reading and listening, including President of the United States. It was reported in the news earlier that Twitter marked his entry as misleading, and he now threatened to set social media rules. As we know, false news has become a global problem threatening the democracy and the system we live in. There are other reports of such activities almost every day in Icelandic media, including the U.S. Today, May 29th, on RUSV. It shows that there are many news related to those who have little support or none in real life today that causes confusion and panic in Asia, and so is the story. The National Security Council has decided to set up a team of workers to map images and the scope of information activities associated with Covid in this country and provide suggestions on how to resist them. The National Council of Iceland has proposed a synonym, which means that Prime Minister and Education will initiate a team of staff who are expected to improve the channel of communication for all age groups, map out information collections, define institutions and integration of those who have done and go into the necessary adjustment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u18	A respectable president. This week I flew north to Akureyri, along with the secretary of state and other members of state, and other good people where the minister of foreign affairs signed a contract with the University of Akureyri to strengthen the knowledge base of the European university on northern issues. This was a very enjoyable time, and we, as members of the Parliamentary Commission, were given the opportunity to meet both the university and the professional community and receive food into the work that lies ahead of us. In fact, with us, there was also a work team on economic developments in the north, and they are well along in their work. I wanted to draw special attention to it here, a respectable president, as to how important the Arctic languages are to us. We know of the great threat we face as a result of climate change that affects the north twice as much. Often, though, there is also an opportunity. As a community, we need to better monitor the changes that are taking place, and we need to adjust to the changes that are clearly being made and will be in the years to come. But there is also a particular opportunity for us to find. I am so convinced that with the knowledge and research that take place in Icelandic university society and research society, we have a great opportunity to be responsible for the affairs of the north, in the affairs of the sea, and in the environment in these areas. So I think it's bright ahead, and we're supposed to use this year well, since we're leading the Arctic Council to further promote research and innovation in this field and then become the center of knowledge and innovation in the Arctic and environmental sectors.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u19	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé spoke in a sermon in the late term of the Council's Battle of April 30th, published by the president's permission: It is the fact that in the loans and support we are giving to companies in the form of loans and loans, there is an unscrupulous demand on the part of the state that, on the other hand, companies who are in the tax industry do not have the support and that the companies cannot make any money while paying off government responsibilities on those loans. This is the clear will of the government, which is found in the affairs of the council. The conditions that so far have been set for the support of the State do not prevent those who receive support from them from taking advantage of taxes. First, all the operators in Iceland have full and unlimited tax obligations in this country. This point does not rule out companies in the tax industry. Second, it is stated that the applicant has submitted annual accounts and information about actual owners and is already obliged to do so by law. Third, if appropriate, the operator should have reported specifics and is also required by law. This shows that no new requirements are set for support under the approved laws, nor in those we vote for today except for what we do. Councilmen agree to the Conspiracy proposal. To be absolutely sure of this condition, I asked for written answers from the tax on this subject, including examples of a person who lives in Iceland and also about someone who does not live here but has a business in Iceland. The answers to the taxes were clear. The requirement does not rule out enterprises with an active connection to tax cover in any way. Already it is acknowledged that conditions placed do not keep, how will they go? So a senator will ensure that an enterprise rooted in taxes will not be supported by the state?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u20	President. Thank you. A senator for constantly calling attention to this will of the government and to the greater part that has been made clear since its beginning. She has worked hard to draw it out. I've been telling you from the beginning that the government's will is very clear. Actually, he's in 1st. Any of these bills, i.e. about the tax obligations of this country, and it's obvious that it's put in there to get them out of bed. Since then, I have said that if you have to tie up any more fixed knots to make sure that these governments do so, we should do so. Hv. A financial and business committee discussed these issues and has discussed the issues that we have already agreed on. The taxpayer, the taxpayer, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, considered, in presentation and discussion, that the route of support loans would be comparable to what happened at part of the pay expenses and would be enough to protect from the use of the taxpayer's resources. In case of a moment. A senator has other information on the matter as well as on the matter. A senator quoted here and I haven't seen, I've only heard what she says here, but the answer is simple to me: we need to make sure it's this way. We also need to make sure that this is comparable to what is done in other lands. It's been interesting to watch how some people, both of them. Councilmen and others in the community discuss other countries in this context as if they were doing much more than here is experienced. It's not necessarily like that, huh? A senator, and it's a good look. To me, it's simple. The will has been clear since the beginning. A professional survey and committee has reported that this is being done. If there's a sign on it, we just sit over it. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u21	Mr. President. In the beginning, I wanted to say, in the first place, a word exchange that took place here on the matter of the council, that it was proper for the president to criticize the question. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson for pointing his words to prominent members of Parliament and criticizing members who had not been warned. Not many days ago, I myself had to focus on my case or criticism. paritaprevir Björn wife, the Leví of Gunnarsson, did not alert him, so he did not have the opportunity to respond. It is a good general rule for all of us to bear in mind that when we initiate a discussion under these forces and plan to criticize individual senators or Ministers, they will be alerted so that the critical person will have an opportunity to respond or answer. Enough about that. We are now in the latter part of our terms. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir took steps in his case earlier today. Its words could be understood as some sort of criticism of government or government part because they have not published a statement about when an election will be started next year. Now, of course, the terms are four years away from the election day. Last selected at the end of October 2017, so the ideal period will be completed on October 2021 unless the decision is made otherwise. Such a decision has not been made and I must express my personal opinion, I do not speak for anyone other than myself, that I probably feel that the present administrative part is working together until the end of the term because this cooperation has been successful, and it has led to good results.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u22	The president wants to add, for a discussion that was here at the beginning of a meeting of members of this team and for what might be done. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson mentioned, that the reason the president makes comments about men making up their names is that the discussion is closed. There is a rosary of 15 members of Congress, and those with such names are probably not on it. This is not to say that members of Congress are not allowed to communicate quickly, but it is important that those who speak are directed to be able to enter the discussion and answer to them. Of course, for open discussions where there is room for objection or for improvement on the rosary, there is something else to distribute. This is what the president asks members of the Parliament to keep in mind: Whether it is an open or closed discussion about the ability to carry a hand in front of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u23	A respectable president. I am kindly and obliged to ask the members of the assembly in the hall, and those whom I mentioned earlier, I apologize for not letting them know before I gave the talk that I was going to discuss the issues I made. I am as kind and as related, and I think that's a good rule, and the head of my council agreeed with it, and I will not let this happen to me again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u24	President thanks a lot. A senator believes that he has made a clean door for himself in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u25	Mr. President. The crown virus has had tremendous consequences. Schools were closed, so studies were made for telecommunications. There seems to be a huge difference between school and school, and it seems that much has been successful and others have not done well. My encouragement to win this report request came about news of difficult situations as well as good experiences of teachers and students alike. It is important to learn valuable lessons from those times as well as from obstacles. This lesson can then continue to be used to create a more wide range of study environments and to look forward to the future with regard to educational opportunities to students, regardless of their place of residence or status. It is also important to look after students and teachers at this time and how to come back twice with resources and tools.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u26	Mr. President. If this bill is adopted without the conversion of the United States, it will most likely have the effect of a company giving up people rather than maintaining recruitment relations with them. I have requested, after ASI sent a letter to our members, that the case be entered the committee and has already been planned for a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee at the time. 13 today, because there is, of course, doubt about the condition of employees if the case continues to go through. But the Union makes proposals for reimbursement when companies have a right to the cow, for the maximum pay of the owners or the highest executives of the enterprise in accordance with the conditions in the bill on a partial improvement pathway, that citizens associated with taxes are not supported by public funds, and for larger companies receiving support for climate support. We will not be able to support this issue as it is now, but hopefully it will make good changes between the 2nd and 3rd. of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u27	President. We in the Middle East suggested that there be another way to achieve this goal, which we thought was better; a way sometimes called the fishing process, i.e. to give companies the opportunity to interrupt the employment contract while the circumstances are what they are now. The government decided to go another way, and we have promised to support all issues that have failed to cope with the problem at least. It is quite clear that a company who has lost 75% of their income is not in a position to pay or pay any notice. There's something you need to do, and it's something we support. In terms of the changes in the memory of the part, it is in our opinion that a company fighting for their lives is put in the position of creating a climate-based strategy, or if they are going to fail. We don't support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u28	A respectable president. I simply rely on it that now, when the case goes back to the committee, there will be clear lines that companies in the tax industry that have hidden and clearly, knowingly, and fully trying to avoid paying in our common fund will not be able to take advantage of the part-change process. I don't care if they've made 100% of their money, I couldn't care less. They have no right to come to Icelandic taxpayers and demand that they help them when they have not shown a sense of dignity and paid in our common fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u29	Mr. President. Today, the fate of two cases is determined by all of this operation package. There are additional conditions for damages and this bill for pay on notice. Inevitably, these bills have an effect on each other. We in the United States would have thought that anything they could do should be done to direct companies to use terms and keep recruitment relations with people, but the conditions in these laws are weaker than part-authorized and will encourage companies to go in the opposite direction and run people and quit them. We will not be able to support the bill unless the changes we have made are accepted and the changes between 2 and 3. ... aftera meeting with the ASI will improve the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u30	President. In this regard, we feel that the changes that have been made in the rest of the committee have been beneficial. This does not change the fact that there are some things that are critical and can be fixed, especially the interaction of these two subjects that have been discussed together in the past week, the part - improvement process so called, and the case that pays on notice. In view of the comments that have been made today on the way these two cases play together and the conditions set out for the employees and companies who intend to take advantage of these resources and, in the light of the serious remarks that are less involved in the second matter, i.e. and then we'll sit by this payment, where the case has been referred to the committee, and then we'll take it back.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u31	A respectable president. Pirat party does not support this method of dealing with problems that certainly exist. We have a smaller share of this matter in reference to other solutions that we thought had been preferred to cope with the present crisis. I simply refer to the committee's opinion in this regard. We believe that the state will support the failure of an enterprise's notice, that it promotes confidentiality rather than maintain recruitment between employers and employees, and that better ways could be used to force employees in excess of companies. So we won't vote with this bill, we'll vote against it. But we will support adjustments in the process of improving.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u32	Mr. President. At the beginning of Covid's response, it was a declared objective of the government and the government to maintain a public recruitment relationship with an enterprise in the country. Now, two months later or almost three months later, we are looking forward to a clear impulse that the government puts up in the form of this reporting process because the two issues we are discussing here today, on the other hand, the information route and support of businesses that reveal staff and the part-change process and support to companies that need to reduce the workcount of their employees, the conditions in these two cases are very different. They encourage breaking up companies. We've already heard about it just today and yesterday that companies are taking their employees out of the part-change process because the conditions are in such a way, although the conditions in this case are much softer. [[The president calls.]] I feel that this is a very special message from the government that encourages companies to resign more than to maintain a recruitment relationship. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u33	Mr. President. 75% of the government's action is for unemployment reform and to provide data for people, only 5% of all the operations is for innovation. It must be shocking to be the minister of innovation in this government. Here is a complete lack of vision, and new jobs are not being created and jobs are not being spent. Mr. President. It seems that not only do business in the country that is going bankrupt but the government is bankrupt in all its ideas. Mr. President. This is the government of resignation and surrender.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u34	A respectable president. To date, we have been most aware of the step taken in response to Covid in the matters discussed here, but we have generally agreed that the steps were in the right direction. Not so in this case. They're building a huge impulse, 27 billion of public money, for business to give up staff. It is done without, apparently, that the interaction with the partial reforming process is viewed as what a minister called in 1st. This is done without putting aside any protection necessary to ensure the interests of the wage employees, though they should serve. Of course, I'm glad that the ASI's economic and business committee will discuss the comments at a meeting later today and see if they can be met but have to admit, Mr. President, that I'm hopeless because those comments were previously made. We pointed out this in a discussion yesterday that they had not been treated. [[The president calls.]] This was known, and this was done consciously.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u35	Madam President. It's just bad stuff. This is because of the purpose we set out to maintain employment relationships, and not just that, this encourages the company to quit staff and to keep it as a kind of government employee working for three months, which is paid by the local taxpayers. It would have been easy to accept another approach, if they believe that it is necessary for people or companies to have room for anyone to run the staff without being able to find their own way. It could have been that way, but these employees need to work on something, and we're here for the individual interests or interests of the working group. But no, this way is being easing out the money, we don't even know how much, but immensely. Will it be 25% of the companies who do this or 50% of the companies? We don't know. However, the government intends to appoint employees for these companies for three months, provided they are fired. So when they're hired back, as ASI's pointed out. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy pointed out in his committee party, they can be hired at a lower salary. It's not a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u36	Mr. President. We vote on a case on pay of pay on notice. This is actually another Covid case, i.e. We are about to try as hard as we can to keep a company from dropping out and going under, and paying off on the payroll. This is to make it at least any more companies left in various industrys, when the economy returns to the rotation, to hire employees who are now employed and have been quit. I agree with the request to call the matter in between the 2nd and 3rd. to deal with the German Union of Iceland. It is important to listen to the workforce's viewpoints in these areas. So I think it's important that we call the matter into conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u37	Mr. President. Obviously, we face very difficult problems with Iceland's business management. And it is true that something has to be done. But I disagree with the head of the Middle Party, who says that something needs to be done and that's enough. We have to do the right thing and that's the problem here. This bill is a little bit the old politics that in order for companies to thrive, public interests need to be replaced. That's wrong. The right way would have been for both companies and the public to get out well. As a result, I cannot support this matter. In fact, I don't know what to do because this is just getting ahead of me. If we had started to build new opportunities, we would have been in a better place, and then the council could have continued working together in the right direction to correct the situation by Covid.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u38	Mr. President. What we're doing here today, I hope at least that we have the wisdom to do so, is to make a decision to take action to try to prevent the mass failure of companies that have suffered a massive shock, or at least 75% of income loss. There are no small conditions for such support, 75% at least We are in the process of hoping that the relief from this time of distress could be possible. If they succeed, they have a responsibility and we are ensuring the right to revise, if possible, for a similar job. It's the challenge here, and I don't believe anything but that we have the chance to stick together to try to prevent the mass failure of companies that have an amazing problem, a problem we've never seen before. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u39	A respectable president. I'm asking myself if the government is seriously ill with Covid, and that's why it's not right and that's why it's making these laws. Something serious must be wrong. We can't set a law where we're making an easy statement, we're going to pay the bills, and then a business will make it easier to break pay. This is completely ridiculous, and there must be something serious going on with the government if she's going to let it go through like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u40	A respectable president. I can't say I'm going through some words that have fallen into this hole. We're doing some of the government's action package here. When people talk about the idea that the bill encourages a business to resign, are people serious, people never even involved in business? Nobody tells employees about their fun. There is a requirement here that at least a 75% decrease in the relevant enterprise. What companies do you think can afford to keep all their employees working after income loss? It just doesn't work. What we are doing is trying to give these companies the opportunity to get on the ground, as we put it, so that knowledge and experience will remain in the companies. I hope things are going well, and then these companies can get back up, hire the staff back to themselves, and hopefully more. That's what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u41	Mr. President. I come up here a second time because we're here 63 and that's just a part of the group, one on the other. A welfare committee and, on the other hand, those who are in trouble. A financial and business committee, who has been able to get deep into it. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee, spoke of our role in preventing a mass failure. The government is preventing mass failures with mass information, that's just the way it is. Instead of protecting jobs, there are many facts that are being developed. Well, let's see the difference because in the part-change process, the companies who are in a lot of trouble, and we all agree on that, only a small portion of the work required by their employees, but totally during the three months of notice, or the length of time. Everyone must understand this impulse. Now that the economy is back in motion and the companies can go back to the demolition, it must be a clear motivation to give up workers and be able to renew it during the period rather than improve it. [[The president calls.]] [[Get on top of it: Tech contractions.]] It's under the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u42	President. It's different for me before. I feel that I have heard so many of the people who feel this way, in the early phase of the crisis, about what we are going to do about tourism companies, small and mediumsized, all over the country, how we should meet the tremendous financial recession there, what tourism companies are supposed to be doing to get us out of the crisis. The government is responding to this in one of its many matters. It's spoken as if everything is being done for the sake of professional life. I encourage them. People here talking about land and talking to the operators of tourism companies, talking to their employees, saying: I think it's more about your company going down because I'm not going to be involved in keeping this alive so that you can get a job again. I got it. I got it. Councilmen here, in their political discussion, without looking at the big picture, to cover the country. [[To the point: Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, ……]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u43	Mr. President. Oh, my God. First of all, I want it to be clear by word. The Council of Bryndís Haraldsdóttir that there are some of the executives who have run a business and are successful for a very long time and perhaps better than the general public, and we understand the needs of the economy, and we know how hard it is to abandon people. [[Up front.]] We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinnur Óttarsson Proppé, I'd like to say that we also speak to people here and there, traveling the country, just as the senator expects. We're talking about the interaction of two primarys we're discussing today and how the unique conditions they have to push the rulers into one direction rather than the other, including the other. the temptation involved in making the second bill a maximum wage is required. In the second bill, people cannot take full advantage of the person's active force in the summer when there is any hope of travel, e.g. So I'm gonna ask you. Senators, let it be our business to talk out loud, and if it is available, we can review the history of the individual members of the council here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u44	A respectable president. Of course, I must refuse that the representatives of my section would like a business to go under on a large scale. It's ridiculous to say that. I came up here earlier and listed a number of other solutions that we bring that would not have built into the structure to which we are criticizing here. We're even. criticize the urge to resign from employees but then be able to recommence the staff without ensuring that the person does not have to accept less pay after that. This is an important thing. I'd like to finally be glad we're here for a half-hour discussion on this subject. It has not been said that we hear much from governments why they want to go this way. Two o'clock. had it so that three legislatures expressed their opinion on the bill, so I do not agree with a president that it is somehow unnatural that we are discussing it now. At any rate, I'm glad that some of the government's views come true.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u45	A respectable president. To keep it straight, we've been Pirats since Covid started talking about how normal it was that the business could stay and that we would meet people who were losing their jobs in some way, for example. with a new birth. Then, at the end of the code, an enterprise may reenter the sequence for which it was removed, if a basis for it, but it would continue to catch up with those who otherwise fell apart. It is absolutely clear that no one has encouraged the mass innuendo of companies. I reject the charges very much and simply refer to the discussions that have taken place since it began. Our orders were to allow the executives to stay awake and promote innovation. New births may now be just for what they should be. There is still much missing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u46	President. The purpose of this bill is good. Who is he? Yes, the companies who are forced to resign their employees and cannot pay three months' notice to get help. That's good. Is it possible to do this differently? Yes, without the only way they can do this is by firing their employees. We can expand the part-change process so that the companies who have lost 75% of their income, which is currently in this bill, may reduce the staff's employment rate to zero, could run it, but the state would still pay for the staff. Then it would be such an impulse, but the staff itself - many of them are leaving the part-change path, but we still have it. However, those who have to fire their employees can do so. The purpose is achieved without direct motivation, i.e. If a company is going to get this money from taxpayers, it needs to fire its employees. This would also mean that the staff who are seen to be driven for three months has room to find other jobs, to reorganize their lives. [[The president calls.]] But this is not changing. This is only a catalyst, although there are other ways to achieve the goal of helping companies who have to run employees but who cannot pay their notice. [[The president calls.]] It's not a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u47	Mr. President. This adjustment proposal is to exclude those from financial support that have taken advantage of tax covering. Earlier today, a senator claimed that all conditions were required to exclude such from state support, but that is wrong. All representatives of the Economic and Business Committee have their written answers to the IRS. Since these represent all classes, it is to be clear that these conditions do not apply. They're what they were. Councilmen who really want to rule out a state support enterprise who has actually told themselves about support, by setting up complex and complex transfers to avoid paying in our common fund, vote with this proposal. The others, of course, will destroy her, who does not care about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u48	President. I vote against this suggestion, knowing not well enough what is in it and what it changes. But I trust it. The Economic and Business Committee will review these issues now as she handles the matter between discussions and specifically considered these conditions under a tax cover.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u49	Mr. President. Let us look at the vote lights and see how governments vote. In this team, the suggestion as a what? Directors are now down and over, they are given the same conditions as in the section-imaging bill on the highest salary of the highest management and owners of the enterprise, the same conditions as these same management teams put in a second bill, i.e. the part-change process. Will anyone claim that there is no motivation for going to lay any further blame where such conditions are not? Mr. President. I'm so shocked that I just say, "Oh, my Guð.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u50	It is not forbidden to address him here in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u51	Mr. President. The climate is mankind's biggest common problem, and we have to cope with the problems we face, like us and people out of the world today. As we struggle with a pandemic, the climate will not disappear or take a break. We need to make this requirement for enterprises that receive support from the state funds, I'm not talking about the companies who are going to tell more than ten people on this route and get tens of millions to work because of it, the simple requirement to set climates on the agenda, take the position on corporate climate books, and plan for the next five years. It's symbolic, but it's not burdensome, but it's important to tell them that the government has not forgotten the global climate in the pandemic and put them on schedule for the companies. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u52	Mr. President. I have voted with this suggestion. I think she's a sensible one, she's a vision. I've mentioned earlier that we should be careful to put all too strict and complex conditions for support we're providing in connection with the current traumas, but they need to be clear and simple. I think it's simple and effective. I might have. It would have been out of control for 15 employees, but it doesn't matter. I think it's a sign of vision and it's wise to take this step. Business support is being done in a handsome way, and I'm sure they'll contribute to an important subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u53	Mr. President. This motion is what it's all about. paritaprevir Oddný G. The hard-developed Harðardóttir of a company returning emissions is a good price. However, it has not been discussed or tore up, has not been given any reviews, visitors, or anything created for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u54	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u55	[[The president calls.]] I don't think this is the right time. On the other hand, I do exist in it, in the right place, to make a proposal comparable to that in the Icelandic law on enterprise. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u56	Mr. President. Instead of the substance of income transfers proposed by the management body to be in Article 8. suggests that there will be a special income tax increase on an enterprise they will pay at most in ten years. This works so that those who rapidly straighten out the cow return quickly. Those who fail to straighten out their cows over the course of the ten years do not pay them anything, so there is a payment on their ability, and we also assume that companies will accept them as necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u57	Mr. President. I support this bill involved in the temporary access of cab drivers who have had permission for less than two years to enter their employment permit without allowing it to fail, as required by the law of taxi cars. This law is expected to apply for the next year. This brings many benefits to this group of cab drivers, save expenses, and enables them to register for unemployment. I'll put in advance my support for the bill, and there are a few reasons. Basically, I think, as I have expressed myself before, that it would have been easier for cab drivers to go on the part-reaching process that has been very difficult to make use of. Then this bill would be superfluous, since cab drivers have a responsibility to stay out of civil service even though their work was certainly very close to one another. I also disagree with the uncertainty and slow response of the government in this group, and especially with the development of measures for him, and the same is true of other groups of monotonous individuals. I'll have to, for example. to mention how the employment agency responds to making it necessary to pay unemployment bills to a taxi driver for a job search. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. The job search requirement in the community and in the state of the cab driver's labour market is all about the inflexibleness of the system. [[The president calls.]] The computer simply says no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u58	A respectable president. This is where we vote on the bill for a change in the law of taxi cars allowing cab drivers who have a work permit for less than two years to enter the employment permit on the length of the law, i.e. ... thisyear. The bill is intended only to ensure that an equal cabby driver is in hospitalisation for the current contractions caused by Covid, whether the cab drivers have had a work permit for less than two years or more. This bill has to do with it only. Other issues, whether related to unemployment, or after the administration of a cabby's tax account, are found in other committees and organisations and were therefore not discussed in the Environmental and Transport Committee. [[The president calls.]] However, we recognize in the committee that this change is independent. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u59	Mr. President. I come up here only for a word. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautaça about the cab drivers, since we've seen it in what we've heard. The welfare committee that they have been left out and are in an exceptionally delicate position when it comes to government support in this very difficult situation. I can report it, to be told here too, that the less part of the welfare committee, where it's still there. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, my brother's sister. paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason, a member of the committee, assumes that cab drivers do not need to be in an active job search when they use public support at this time. We are making the adjustment so that I encourage all who will vote today to support the proposal to secure the driver's rights as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u60	Before there is a vote, the president wants to remind them that when they sit or stand together, they have time limit in mind. As a result, it is desirable not to take a very long time for votes or constant votes. This vote will be interrupted by the president if it is very much extended beyond what already is, simply so that members of the council can withdraw a little bit. This brings up a president in connection with it when he has a problem. Congress officials regularly ask for the word for the vote, which, of course, is permitted in the Senate but can lead to that, as a law is implemented in the U.S. Senate, to adopt the subject and exchanges even in or before a vote begins, even in the case of 3. will remain on the subject. In fact, the president's opinion is that those terms were not in that way in his time, and this was not a very long way done. Rather, it was to make comments about themselves, something technically involved in the vote. In recent years, however, the development of this law has become increasingly new to open up some form of chemical debate before a vote is due and may take time. Of course, communication is always needed, but it is something that is appropriate to keep in mind, and in the present circumstances, a president must honestly say that he would like to be kept in touch with this arrangement, for he may at times want to extend his or her votes very much. For a time, this law was used mainly to make comments on the behalf of members of the council, a member of Congress. It would be good for a person to argue about having this in some way today, when it is still delicate about how long we stand or sit together. - I'm sure now it's the word for President's conference board. You can have as much disagreement with the President's comments as they want. They have their rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u61	President. It's nice to have a president think that people won't sit together for long. It's just that it's all right. It needs to be clear, then, that the president is not using it for any other purpose than taking care of the health and welfare of the United States. What, then, is this time limit? They need to lie down, and there must be some sort of perfunctory basis for this. As we heard in the speech of the president, this is his concern; he is not impressed with a talk about the subject. But it's only very good, it's just the best conversation that will take place then, the most enlightened of the discussion, and most people are there. The fact that the President takes time here to cover this issue with the Covid approach--I don't think it's a good idea, let's say. It's probably just a break in the meeting, but the president needs to inform us how that time will look so that the President's warrant is not used in some kind of solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u62	V.E.G. President. The General is a seminar. In this seminar, democracies are represented by various categories, which, according to their duty, should take place in the Ponta of the Allalis and explain their views and terms. The fact that the president suggest that members of Congress in some way impair their freedom of expression, taking into account the circumstances he himself has created - by refusing to vote out of the House of Congress, puts a council hall in a better space so that we are not creating unnecessary dangers - that he directs to members of Congress to limit his words to me. [[The president calls.]] That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u63	Mr. President. I'll take it to say anything with the highest degree. A president who was not limiting the freedom of speech or of any kind or using any kind of oppression in this relationship but simply pointing out certain facts and offering a very kind recommendation to members of Congress to present the possibility of making a vote, as they say. The fact is, the opportunity for members of the Parliament to participate in material discussions about individual matters is countless. It is 1 Corinthians 15: 58. ...... Around, 3rd. and other members of Parliament can explain their votes. Even if the people of Congress were to be changed in such a way over the course of a vote, they would simply be out, crossed out, so many democratic candidates would have the opportunity to participate in extraordinary discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u64	A respectable president. The position of the president on the program on votes has been discussed in the Senate Committee and on the scene of the council groups, and this is a matter of politics. However, when it comes to the treatment strategy, it is the responsibility of the president to arrange for him to want us to take a break or not to sit together too long, there is only a pause in votes. In fact, it is the vote for improvement because it is often easy to lose sight of exactly what is to be done when lengthy votes take place, away from the program on votes or not. Whatever the opinion may be on that part of the program, I think it would be more correct if the U.S. president had suggested that we take intervals between us, that it had occurred at the outset, but not to state it here following the use of the rights of the senators today. This is not the time to decide to try to adjust the program for which the President of Generalis objects.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u65	A respectable president. I'm generally starting to worry about the speech that a respectable president of the United States has raised, and I've had this terms in general. In any case, members of the council are saying too much of this or too much there about the rest. I realize that a respectable president and a greater part, i.e. The government and its members want to keep up a discussion that is damaged to set things straight. I understand that. I totally understand that. But a respectable president, who is the president of the entire council, also needs to realize that this is the place where members of the smaller section can express their views on the other and these matters and must be able to do so without the constantly giving the audience the impression that here are always talking too much. It's not like that, Mr. Honorable President. If a poor speech period is agreed, it should be done on terms of negotiation. It would be best to avoid it if possible. But I just don't like this speech speech, which a respectable president has apparently been trying to make a habit of making during this terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u66	V.E.G. President. I come up here for a word. paritaprevir Ármannsson, the son of Aargis, who said that this was not a part of the freedom to speak, since members of the council have various opportunities to express themselves. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir - old Ármannsson knows the people like his palm, and he knows that they are expected to express themselves under the rule of a vote. By directing it to members of Congress not to do so or to adjust it, an attempt is being made to restrict the free speech of members of Congress who have no history has been agreed on for discussion, as well as to be able to express themselves on a subject under that program. Simply put, that's why I came up here to point out that this is also a room for senators to express their views and views.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u67	A respectable president. The reason why I am saying that it is important for me to continue this conversation in the field where it belongs and not here in the Hall is because it is an option for this program on the vote. There is a reason why I and others want to be part of this program. Why is that? Because they are then generally present. They are generally forced to listen to their colleagues on the contrary to what is often in 1st, 2nd, and 3. where there is virtually no one in the hall, where few people are listening, and where there is little attention to what those in the government stand say is critical of government action. I pointed out, in the past, about the vote of the government's resignation, that only three member members had participated in the 1st and 2nd districts. about that time, this giant 27 billion - billion - and we had heard from three governments. I was glad that we heard from others because our attention is greater and our attention is being heard, and that is why this part of the program is important to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u68	Mr. President. As long as there are no misunderstandings, no one has questioned that the right of members of Congress to participate in the debates about votes is unambiguous and clear in the Congress. There is no doubt about that. The president kindly recommended that it be used only in moderation. Hv. Senators realize that if 63 senators take advantage of both their opportunities to discuss votes, we are talking about a very long chapter in the Senate. I also pointed out in my earlier language that there are countless others in the council. I think that's what we're talking about. Councilmen must not be so dramatic, if I may say so, to consider that the President's kindly recommendation that there may be some limitation of the unambiguous rights the senator has to take part in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u69	President. I will protect this team, for a vote, into a red death. This is because the most effective discussion will be given at that stage. After everything else has happened, people have developed opinions about the matter, members of the council may rise up twice for a minute and there will be a powerful answer from everyone, and all members of the council who have not entered a case that may only trust their party may have to face hearing a cumulative approach on the matter. This is an enormously important team that ensures that tonight members of Congress cannot say: I didn't know, I wasn't aware of that. Yes, you did. And you were watching the discussion. You knew what you were doing. Of course, it's awkward when you have to vote with the company, but the inconveniences only need to be there if people are going to vote for knowing sense with something that's a bad thing. That's why this part is so important. It is illuminating for the world of Congress, illuminating for the common people, and sustaining the vital authority involved in making laws in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u70	A respectable president. I just want to look back and think back on April 6, 2017. Then we sat here in the hall discussing financial policy before 2017,22022. At that time, members of Parliament expressed themselves on a vote, and as a respectable president, the first representatives of all classes began to appear and explain how each body of Congress would vote, e.g. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter on behalf of the left green. All of this was 29 comments on a vote. After this one from the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, ten more of her members, including two of the fine senators who now sit in the Presidency, materially speaking, were on the subject of the matter. It's just one example. I'm not going to take out the many that may be left to each of us by the record here at the council. [[The president calls.]] It's simply tradition, and we all indulge in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u71	Happily, there was not a pandemic back then.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u72	A respectable president. In view of what happened. Ármannsson I wanted to draw attention to the fact that the authority of the president is not only about who caused it, but also about the way it is exercised. It's not only about formal power but also about doctrine. It matters how the speech develops regardless of legal matters on what the senators can do or what a dignified president has the right to stop. When a respectable president seems repeatedly, on the opportunity to give, comment on how members of the council speak here or there, or it attaches to the false approach that the freedom of the council is too new. It matters. Therefore, when a respectable president uses his teaching in this way, members of the council will be forced to respond to the situation in order to protect themselves and their freedom of speech here. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u73	A respectable president. Just moments to respond to the words of the president after I finished my case earlier: I am not making a comment that a pandemic of crown virus and that it needs to be taken into account by the council. I'm making a note that the president said he thought that the terms of vote were not in the way of a material discussion that was under consideration. I was simply pointing to examples from the past of our president of the United States, where the senator who now sits in the United States was not following the tradition that he now says is the preferred ground for thought-change.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u74	In writing to the president of all members of Congress, the president would like to stress it yesterday, when it was being discussed or informed about the possibility of a meeting today, that it was important for two reasons to try to adjust the duration of the decision. On the one hand, we would be limited to important projects that need to be completed before the month; however, the motion given by the government would be that if people sat or stood very close together, it would be desirable to have a certain external time limit, that such a situation would not last very long. The president was hoping that the presidents of Congress may have made it known to their members that it would be desirable for the reason that we would be reunited with all members of the council's estate if they didn't take very long. It was a kind recommendation to the chairman of a council, and it was from the president's side of the council that they had this in mind. Of course, it is so in the hands of each member of the council what he does or does not kindly recommend from the President of II.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u75	V.E.G. President. I just want to come up here and say I had the same understanding as the president of this arrangement. This was suggested at a meeting of the council groups, and me and my people were simply kind and obliged to apply them. I've got it. I've got it. I've got it. That's all.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u76	V.E.G. President. We talked about High School last night. I mentioned that I rejoiced that the case would return to the committee between the 2nd and 3rd. What I want to reiterate here is the one I've got at the majority party and mostly what has to do with the number of employees, but it's said there are about 15 employees in this new education fund. It's about time for work. Thirty-five employees at the LAIN. I want to know what this increase is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u77	A respectable president. We hereby vote for a very important matter, an important biographer for the entire population of the country. The source of this fund that we vote on here, the loan fund of Icelandic students, has caused a quiet revolution in Icelandic society that may not always be talked about but has made it possible for people from less wealthy homes to break into education so that all society has benefited greatly. In time, this social role has been fogged, so the fund has been unable to care for what was to come in the past few years. This bill helps us to improve some of that, but not sufficiently in our opinion in the United States, and that's why we're making some adjustments that we hope to get well subjugated here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u78	A respectable president. This is where we vote on a very good bill for a law on the Board of Education, which I support in my mind. The effective and powerful education fund for lending and strengthening is the basis for equal study and development of individuals and society. It's been 28 years since our last complete revision and the long time step that we may be able to take here right now. Yesterday during my discussion, I actually heard incredibly little criticism of the bill as well as its subject. Much more was discussed about factors that are actually for the decision of each year's budget and distribution regulations, and I think it is important to distinguish them. A number of new indicators in the bill are built, including previous work since 2013 and 2016, including in the 2016 General Education Committee, such as borrowing, bringing up of children, access to special community support, etc. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u79	Mr. President. The bill includes long - term changes and reviews of the Icelandic loan fund, and many good things are found in this matter. Despite the positive changes, this is primarily a matter that ensures the interests of those who pay on student loans, but it does less for students or students while they are studying. In view of this, a representative of the projection of the General and Education Committee suggests a change in proposals directly in favor of students. On the one hand, the indeed effective move is not just a beautiful word on paper, as the trial has been for quite a while. However, students receive a scholarship during study with the necessary loans. This is clear, and we have often talked about that in the circumstances that we now live in, we need to look to the future, and we only look at university, look for ways to study well, and thus reach out for the position we are in. [[The president calls.]] I hope these adjustments have been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u80	A respectable president. Pizzas would probably design a different system, although this new system is clearly significantly improved. A greater proportion of the General and Education Committee and three smaller shares have proposed and are supported by all of them than 3rd and 7 numbers in the transitional design of 1 less share, i.e. Pirata, they're called to the 3rd. We vote with most regulations in the bill itself, with exceptions we will explain according to events. However, we would vote with various guidelines that might be added to us, but we did not consider the matter to be sufficient publicity on a committee before it was taken out. That's why it's very positive that the case goes back to the General and Education Committee between the 2nd and 3rd. that there will be an additional reversal of any doubts. Is that very beneficial, and hopefully it will lead to even greater improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u81	Mr. President. Here we vote for a long, timely overall review of how we're behind students. I believe that the suggestions listed here are a great benefit to students in which the structured system of student loans and scholarship is adopted. This complete review, as I said before, is a long time ago. Such a complete reexamination of 2013 was carried out, but it is my hope that this will improve the future interests of students. I would especially like to draw special attention to the proposals added to Congress and to the staff under the Head of the Ministry. They worked very closely with the labour market partners, centering on the detriment of responsibilities and paying off student loans for those who have already completed their studies. It will be a lot better, but it is also a great deal of justice. I believe that the journey that we started in 2009, when we canceled a requirement for responsible men of new loans for the future, has come to an end with this change that is a great deal of justice for students in Iceland, both in the past and in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u82	President. There's a lot of good in this bill, but I'd like to point out to students that if they take a student loan, if the bill as it now becomes a law, perhaps in sickness, if they get into disability, and therefore become unable to pay off their loans, they'll have to go into bankruptcy, they can still hunt down their academic debt. People who may be desperate will not be able to live up to them. Students have already been attached. Even if people fail, the State will pursue these debts. It's the reality that happens if this bill becomes a reality. This is what the Supreme Court has been judging; they thought it was in the law, but the Supreme Court has been to say it isn't. If this bill is accepted as it is, it is indeed being legal to fail, whether because of disability or otherwise, you can pursue the debt and have it paid on the edge of the grave.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u83	A respectable president. We are making progress in this bill, and we are taking great steps to improve the status of Icelandic students from home. But there is one comment I would like to make. Here are new laws and the responsibility of responsible people, such as the Supreme Court. The prime minister rightly pointed out here. I would have liked, so that we were not showing partiality to people, that we looked to responsible people who are living with the old loans that most of them are quite old, very old, and I think that it may not be so costly for us not to discriminate against their older laws. So I'm signing a motion on the deck. 1482 from what? paritaprevir The divinity of Thorsson Thorson, quoted below, who, in effect, wants to remove anything that attracts this discrimination and that all responsible men are free and free.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u84	Mr. President. I come up here for a word. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson's son on this bill. I'd like to encourage you. A senator to study both the bill and the adjustment proposed by more than part of the General and Education Committee. 23rd degree. The bill discusses the postponement of reimbursement and the exceptions that can be obtained to postpone payment. The majority of the General and Education Committee is adding, i.e. to improve space so that reimbursement can be postponed if they are in trouble, as can arise in life. I'm pointing out what. A senator also has the adjustment proposed to him in 20 C.E. G., which makes it possible to negotiate a bankruptcy if people were unable to pay before they were 65 years of age. [[The president calls.]] Hence, they are being greatly met by those who for some reason will not be able to pay off their loans.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u85	A respectable president. In the course of a student's loan, it sucks to know that it's still possible, and we're not even going to make sure that they don't continue, chasing moms, dads, grandparents, great-grandmothers, and paying off student loans. It's a good thing, though, that people are being cut off. You see, it sucks to know that only many young people have been involved in taking illegal loans can result in failure to borrow a loan or that a statement of credit needs to be made by financial contributions because they are closely linked to those underdeveloped records. We need to make sure that everyone has the right to study.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u86	President. I appreciate this correction, i.e. that people with debts cannot be pursued after they go bankrupt to the edge of the grave; they can only be settled up to 65 years of age. There's some action out there that'll make it easier. That, however, is stated in paragraph 26. The bill that if people go into bankruptcy, the state, the government, may call for a failure of debt, that the student's loan will not grow old. It's in 26. That's what's being promoted. There have been judgments in the Supreme Court that this is not in the law today. This means if 26. will be approved as it is presented, even if people fail, loans will not grow old. That's a fact. Just fix it, it's a pretty cool bill in many ways. Set this point up when the case goes back to the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u87	A respectable president. It appears that the whole body of Congress agrees that a student loan should be sufficient for a living. However, we do not agree on whether we want the law to be so clear that it is, rather, that the more part remains to be trusted, for reasons that no one has explained why it should be. The majority suggest that the body of the committee, in its text to the management, be taken into consideration. It is good and blessed, but it is not part of the law itself. So here it is suggested that new lawsuits be put in place, requiring that the cost of living should never be estimated less than the typical consumption criteria as determined by the Social Services Department's consumption criteria for homes in Iceland. Today, financial management uses the core consumption criteria of the same Ministry, which, in the opinion of my 1st share, is not enough. It is proper to assume that 2 smaller things contribute to the adjustment of the physical harmony arrangement, which is still developed or expressed differently.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u88	A respectable president. That's what happened to you. paritaprevir The Hrafn Snæfni Gunnarsson is similar to our change modeling somewhat smaller parts; however, it is a little different from the plan; to break the penalty cycle that many students are about to have to work for themselves during study, instead of being able to focus on the study. That is why we suggest that there be a clearer set of rules for ruling on how the forwardness is defined. I'm hoping that the U.S.R. will be of great value to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u89	A respectful president of one thing I didn't think was well discussed, whether in the committee or clearly with the development of the bill, was touching the ideas of strengthening my high school school. I wish we had talked about it better. I just wanted to come up here and mention that at least the person standing here is very open to changing the system in the future in that direction. According to that, I vote with the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u90	A respectable president. I just want to state with you on this change proposal that I think this is a misunderstanding. The argument with the change is that a student who goes to a foreign school for three years needs to come home and stay for two years so that he can go back to school and receive additional loans. This is not true; it is considered a continuous study, although a student has not lived here for two years during a five - year period. So I think it's a misunderstanding. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson's son. I talked to him about it in the Senate. I've received confirmation from the Ministry that my understanding of this is correct. If you go to school abroad and finish your BA degree or BS degree or anything like that, you can go straight on without having to come home and get that scholarship.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u91	A respectable president. I just want to mention the point of this proposal that there's more than ambition to expand it, as it were. A senator mentioned in his first talk, but he also made the law clearer. It is important that those who read the law can understand them as they are without having to move through a god can know what strings to get to the right, especially if funds make a decision other than the Ministry is expected. Other than that, in terms of the a-joint modification proposal, regardless of whether this is the misunderstanding that arose. One senator mentioned, seeing the person here who has nothing to do with expanding this to give students more space, even though the original proposal was laid upon the basis of misunderstandings. Finally, I restate on the fact that the law is clear, not just that it has something legal that we here at the council or at the Ministry can convince ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u92	A respectable president. This is a law that one who does not consider himself to be a loyal lender should offer responsibilities. We suggest that this be removed, and I remind you that this is a social equation fund, and study is often the best way to get rid of people who have gone astray or who have had problems in their lives. It's the best way to get back on your feet. Such ones often do not have responsibilities that they can offer or be loyal backers. At the same time, we suggest that this article be removed from all relevant responsibilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u93	A respectable president. I had in mind sitting by before the adjustment would come. 2. less than that, in view of the good adjustment proposal, I would be overlooked in the payment of this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u94	A respectable president. The president mentioned earlier that the adjustment was made to Article 12. would have been called a 3rd over. This article discusses the duties of the district attorney to provide information. A recommendation of 1st will focus on sharpening the provision, not on altering it materially, but on making life easier for the governor to evaluate when it is appropriate to give information and when it is not. That's not a legal question. Legally, I don't doubt that 12. a law of personal protection. But I can do that better, and I'm glad that the committee took the option of considering the matter a little more carefully. But for this reason, I am at the vote of Article 12.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u95	A respectable president. We're here on an issue of minimum resistance demand. I think that would be a plot if it were. A global and educational committee would discuss this between 2 and 3. By other opinions, whether or not it is right for refugees and immigrants to join them, such as various groups under attack. They may even need to take an additional course in order to have confirmation of their education, and it is right for them to agree with this exception, and the committee will discuss this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u96	A respectable president. There's very little financial value in Iceland, which is as much bitebone in politics as in securable loans. It is important that when a person is allowed to choose between security and infidelity borrow, he knows exactly what he is doing, knows the circumstances as well as those he can know them. But part of the problem is that not all the merits of a loan can be identified because insurance is linked to an index that no one knows what will happen in the future. In the case of young people who are probably taking their first loans in life, it is especially important that education be acceptable to the pros and inadequacies of insurance and cheating loans. Thus, 1st memory contributes to a clear role of the fund in providing guidance. It is quite clear that despite professional guidance from the banks, this has not so far been possible in terms of apartment loans. So when it comes to these matters, all of us are protected and have good reason to have the place of education clearly and effectively.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u97	A respectable president. The adjustment that was called the second action involves the killing of 26. ... away from the bill. So I had in mind voting against this article, but in view of its being taken into account in the General and Education Committee between discussions, I have hoped that the more part will come to the same conclusion as it does this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u98	A respectable president. I believe there's a lot of justice and fairness involved here. There are two conditions that have been imposed on the removal of responsibilities, i.e. that the person is not borrowing and that the loan is paid. The Treatment Board has issued the registry but remains to address the other criteria for borrowing. Today, it is often a loan that people who may be responsible are not really responsible for being misunderstood. It is unfair, and it is unfair that people, even in their old age, need to get such loads of payment. So we suggest that this condition be taken away.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u99	Thank you. paritaprevir The divinity of Andri Thorsson for this adjustment. I agree with every word. It's fair and just business. It would be refreshing to see that the administrative body, which so far has cut down every adjustment, showed in its work that there may be a tiny trace of something, in the parts of which the lesser part has suggested, worth changing. I challenge you to show this in action now that you're a little concerned about the old people who have to sit down with responsibilities, which they may have gone through 30, 40 years ago, over the grave and death. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u100	V.E.G. President. I've called for this case to come back to a committee where I haven't signed an opinion, and we in the Middle East can't support what is said here that we are obliging people to participate in unscheduled financial expenses. What I would like to do is try to turn the matter into a course of action that, for example, means that it is not easy to do what I want to do. is being done at Reykjavíkurburg. The city's cooperation with Gad and Nature's Energy provides funds instead of setting the cost of homeowners. That's why I'm asking for the case to go back to the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u101	A respectable president. I agree that the case goes back to the committee, however, on other grounds. I believe there is a reason why there is so much doubt in this legislation that disabled people, who have usually lax in a garden, have difficulty with access everywhere, have access to loading stations that are to set up in multigain houses. It's time. It's kind of the last note. When we now walk with good intentions to try to meet the demands of green solutions and such, it is totally unacceptable if we do not try at least Then, in a new place, a new time and a future, to put their arms around the society that we have so far, in many ways disrespected for access. I certainly wish that the case should come back into a committee and that, as they say, we can secure it in the law and not place it in the petals. [[The president calls.]] Let us not place disabled people in the room and guarantee them rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u102	A respectable president. Electricization is a national agreement and an economic practicality. Therefore, countries and rural societies have to ensure that electricity can be achieved because it has a lot to do with rural society and individuals. But we must not forget, we always forget, that it must be nailed down and completely clear in law that these values also apply to those who are desperate and disabled, they have access to loading stations. That does not mean talking about good will. We know what a good will means. It doesn't mean anything. The United Nations Convention on the rights of the disabled and the annex has to be established. Only then will it not be possible to have it different, and it will be clear that loading stations are also for those who are disabled and in wheelchairs and others who need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u103	Mr. President. I only agree with my associates here on what has been shown on the bioavailability of the disabled to the loading stations. The committee and I believe this is guaranteed. We contacted self - preservation and had a good relationship with the president of the Society, Benjamínsson Þorri, when we made the committee, and I believe this is a good thing to do. We talked about this last night, too, and I think it's everyone's will in this room that it is, and that message goes with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u104	So far as the 9th session is concerned, the transfer of overdoses has been made on the basis of the application procedure. 1561. So we need to seek approval from making the adjustment. The variants will be viewed without vote if they do not speak out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u105	Madam President. I recommend a greater part of the Department of Health for a bill to legalize the changing of unemployment insurance laws and the guarantees of pay remuneration, the extension of part-time benefits. The committee has met with a number of guests, and at the end, we were given the National Revision Committee that introduced their reports of social monitoring and how the part - improvement process, the first one, had walked, and gave suggestions on what might be done. It was a pleasure that this new bill, which is now being measured to be taken care of so that it can take effect from June 1 to the end of the previous law. The bill is a component of the government's action due to the economic events we know for the sake of Covid-19 and is presented together with other prime plants that have been present for support of pay costs for reporting and billed Minister of Justice due to the permission of financial restructuring of an enterprise. The bill is extending the part-change process, but with extreme conditions. The contribution process will be extended to September 1, 2020. It is suggested that the minimum remuneration per capita will remain unchanged until June 1, 2020, after which 50% will be in place of 25% between July 1 and August 31, 2020. The committee discussed the factors that have been much in the discussion, such as the condition of CCS and unlimited tax obligations. Among the terms used by the bill, an employer confirmed that he has unlimited tax obligations in this country under income taxation laws and that he has received a report on ownership in the CFC society. The Committee discussed whether the above conditions were sufficient for companies who use so - called tax cover or low tax taxes in order to avoid tax pay, which should rightly go to the Icelandic state, to benefit from the government's assistance that the bill would recommend. By requiring the submission of CCC reports, an employer is expected to have informed about his ownership and, after some cases, the taxation of a community's profits directly or indirectly owned by the employer in a low tax area. Among the changes made by the majority are adding, in the list of data the employer needs to have returned to the tax, that he has informed about the real owners, as per the law on the registration of real owners. A major factor is that companies who use tax cover to avoid tax pay, which should rightly go to the Icelandic state, of course, do so in an effort with Icelandic law. Employers who confirm that they have met the above data also guarantee that the information they are aware of is correct. The nature of the matter, according to local authorities, will not be resolved on the issues presented here. Nevertheless, it is clear that by using government support measures, companies are put in place for the monitoring of their resources, and the guidelines recommended in the bill, they deliberately provide the wrong information. The bill suggests that there will be conditions for the use of the components. that the employer commits himself not to pay the owners or the highest managers a monthly wage of over 3 billion. K. The Committee reviewed that there may be some blurred vision in terms of the term '-month wage, particularly in view of the fact that the overall salary criteria for an employee are specifically defined in the terms. An explanation of the concept is not found in the report. The majority notes that the term "month's wage" is to be interpreted according to other laws on unemployment insurance that define the salary of the employee. So it will be with the monthly wage to be counted as any salary or any other terms required by the insurance law, No. 113/1990. For the Committee, there was also a discussion of the position of the individuality on the social security number. The view was that independent active persons who operate on their social security number will pass on their rights to unemployment benefits beyond other groups by getting paid income - related unemployment benefits at the same time and others will receive partial benefits that do not result in a loss of rights to unemployment. The more part of the section shows that there is a requirement for temporary payment on the unemployment insurance law for recruitment between the employee and the employer, where the employer pays for the payer's pay and the employee receives a salary payment from the employment insurance fund due to a loss of employment ratio. The employer's contract can produce a substantial portion of the monthly pay for an employee to use the part-back method, but in the case of his own social security number, there is no such employer to distribute. The committee has a fine table showing differences in income rates of unemployment paid by those who pass through their partial benefits. I think it's a good tablet that shows that there's not a very big difference in earnings depending on which route is gone until the person's income today, before he loses part of his job or his job all, is over 700,000. As I mentioned earlier, it was most enjoyable to have a Kingdom Review Report on the partial improvement process published before we went through 2nd. of the case here at the Council. As we discussed, we received an introduction to a report on the State Reconnaissance on the partial improvement process. The report highlights the importance of financing and the importance of being a guardian for the interests of the state's funds and its spending takes into account the will of the Lawgiver. By the criteria proposed in the bill and by the changes the most part suggests, the selection will be most useful to those in need, i.e. Enterprises that have had to contract activities due to the effects of pandemic crown virus. The majority underscores the importance of monitoring and the fact that employers who use the resources are informed of their responsibility and violations. The majority of these items are addressed to the Ministry and at Work, including the Agency. in cooperation with the tax authorities, to ensure these factors. Then I'm going to go over some of the changes I made in the rest of the section. The majority of it seems normal that instead of changing the regulations for temporary XIII on unemployment insurance law, the part-saving process, as suggested by the bill, will be presented in a new provisional law. This is in order to enhance the clarity of this article. Thus, the majority suggest a 1st par. The bill will be removed and replaced by a new article measuring up for temporary purposes in the law. This set will measure the part-change pathway, as it would apply between June 1 and August 31, 2020, and with conditions relevant to it. At the same time, the material changes are provided which will be further explained below, as well as changes in the format intended to enhance the clarity of the law. It needs to confirm the continued use of part-line improvements. It was observed that it was too short to aim on June 1 and is suggested that time be extended and that it has to be announced before June 30, 2020, to the workforce. Having agreed with the Ministry, the majority contributes to the change in reimbursement of the employee, who has a new budget for unemployment improvements on the basis of the provision for temporary XIII, on March 15 through May 31, 2020, he should inform the labour agency about this by 30 June 2020. In terms of temporary recession of the employer's activities it remains that a contracting in an enterprise should be 25%. That is one of the conditions that are set. There'll be the criteria for this bill. Then I'm going to review the section of the opinion that discusses the terms of submission to taxation. Two. c-arms 1. g. The bill is based on conditions relating to the employer's activities. When confirmed by the Labour Office of the Work Programme on the continued use of the lead improvement, beginning with June 1, 2020, or the remuneration agent for the first time, the employer should confirm that he meets the criteria. This includes the requirement for an employer to carry an unlimited tax obligation in this country and to give an account of the ownership of a CC partner, such as Article 10. Directives on taxation due to ownership of legislation in low tax areas, as appropriate. The committee noted that with the above conditions less than other government measures due to a pandemic crown virus, including the U.S. it would be required that the person had informed about the real owners, as per law on registration of real owners. The majority agree with the above points and shows that while the work programme is being conducted, monitoring will be based on data to be submitted to the tax. Many of the conditions proposed for the use of these measures will not be a fact until then. Rather, they will pay unemployment improvements according to the law, based on employer's confirmation of the condition. Monitoring if the employer really meets the requirements will therefore be carried out to a large extent afterwards. In view of this, the employer's requirement must be made that he confirms that he has supplied all the data and information that he is legally obliged to have returned to the tax on the day of application, including the application. should be informed of real owners, as per law on registration of real owners. The majority suggest that the employer should confirm that he or she has received the tax returns and the follow-up information, including a CFC partner holding report, such as Article 10. The taxation directives due to ownership of legislation in low taxes areas, and other reports and sources such as local taxation and taxation reports to the tax. Three years before the application or after it began working if it was later. In addition, as appropriate and during the same period, he should have met the annual accounts, as per annual accounts, no. 3/2006, and informed of real owners, as per law on registration of real owners, No. 82/2019. All of this I believe is very important in relation to the discussion here on a company that may be breaking Icelandic law by not paying taxes to the Icelandic state if they are in a low tax area. This is all to try to make the best of it. This brings us to various conditions under the employer's direction. The Committee reviewed a problem with the wording of the law as if it were made, with a total of 3 billion. K. month. It would also be burdensome for employers not to be able to take advantage of their resources if they have made a decision on the distribution of money, the reduction of stocks by payment for stockholders, or the purchase of their own items for June 1, 2020, but the provision did not take place until then. So the majority suggest a change in the terms so that the conditions for use of the resource will not be determined by the employer after June 1, 2020, the distribution of interest rates, the decrease in the stocks, the purchase of their own items, other payments on its ownership, non-employable bonuses, non-employment fees, non-employment fees, insurance or maintenance fees, or seniors of a month's salary, which would be greater than 3 billion. K. to each and every one. This suggests that the majority contributes to a change in the period required by the employer's commitment. If an employer commits himself not to make the above provision for January 1, 2022, and not to take into account interest shareholders, decrease money, or buy his own profits made on a business date that begins on January 1, 2020 or later, until first of January 1, 2020. In discussion, there was a limit to the purchase of your own letters, parallel to what was discussed in the Economic and Business Committee for the period of notice. The Commission suggests that events may be in a legal way that a business has committed itself to buying a part of an employee at the end of the work and that in such cases it may be abnormal to forbid the buying of its own items provided by such agreements. In such cases, it can be assumed that such a provision was made prior to June 1, 2020, since a contract for a part of the retirement process was made at that time. The change in the format of the law means that companies who have committed themselves in the above way to an employee may be able to handle previous contracts. In that case, the workforce is under supervision. The Commission was told that the presentation of the time of the regulations proposed in the bill would result in the reporting of the labour agency for monitoring and the application of the proposed laws as well as the loss of values from September 1, 2020. As mentioned above, monitoring for the employer's requirements will be expected to meet largely after the pay of non-employment insurance to the employee has been made. As noted above, the greater part contributes to the extension of the partial improvement process with a new provisional sentence. Indicative of the majority of the segments, the limitation proposed to the length of the provision in the bill is expected to be removed. Instead, the period in which to pay unemployment improvements will be clearly defined on the basis of the arrangement, i.e. from June 1 to August 31, 2020. It is specifically stated in the terms to be retrospective in the bill that this also applies to unemployment improvements paid on March 15 through June 30, 2020, on the basis of a temporary XIII law on unemployment insurance. It is presented as a list of employers who have made good use of the partial reform method. The majority agree with the perspective and implementation of the work programme on the progress-improvement process. The Agency has already published such a list but is limited to companies using the six or more remuneration procedure. The committee was noted that the publication of such information did not violate the personal protection and processing of personal information in which legal information alone is not considered to be personal information. It would be important that public funds were most transparent, so it would be normal to be informed of those who have received such payment. The majority agree with the view that it is reasonable and reasonable to inform about the provision of government funds to legalize in this way to publish a list of legal agencies that have been paid. The majority, however, stress the need to publish a list of companies with few remunerations can lead to a slow analysis of the potential payers of their enterprise on the terms of unemployment. Such information may make it easy to tell which employees of my business are on unemployment records. Therefore, the majority suggest that the implementation of the work programme and that a list of companies with new regulations for six or more remunerations should be published. At the same time, a greater proportion of the items contribute to technical changes that do not require explanations. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the matter will be agreed with the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Under the help of the above - quoted publications, an executive and chief speaker, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. Councilmen Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdótttir and Vilhjálmur Árnason. As I pointed out, this follows a new proposal, which is largely explained in the committee's opinion. It is emphasized that there are changes in tax returns and information, the conditions presented here for January 1, 2022, but profits are made in 2020 and 2021, i.e. that they should not be paid for business years until 223 C.E. The document is in front of the committee's opinion. I'd like to follow this saying that I'm very happy that with the bill it is even more responsible for the way a company goes into this process. We know that unfortunately, too many people jumped the train that did not need to enter the facility, a well - arranged company. They have seen fit to return the money paid to the employees in the name of going on the part-change route. Now we face the next step in coping with the consequences of the crown epidemic and the economic problems we face. There are other options. Happily, some 15,000 people have made themselves informed of their part - style because there have been some limits, such as the meeting flag and the like, and companies have been able to start normal activities. Many who took part - time relief steps are back to work and are on the salary of their employer. Unfortunately, there are many companies, especially in travel services, on a huge drop in income, and they will no doubt look to the financial and business committee for support in paying pay on notice. At this critical point, companies, natural, and hired people will check whether they belong in this arrangement now when the situation is still improving. We must make effective use of the government's funds to those who truly need it. Therefore, it should not be simple and easy to enter the part-change process now. Rather, it is important to consider carefully whether a donation from the State is needed for a 25% contribution to maintain employment relations. I admire all the people who are in trouble and who want to maintain employment relations with their employees, that these companies are applying around, and that their companies meet all the strict conditions set up, and realize that there is a very serious problem. And while some company may be able to get into this situation now with its employees in part or in all respects, it will be revealed if they fail to meet the requirements and are serious laws against them. This could lead to serious business problems. So they must look at the situation with the eyeglasses that if they fail to do so in an open, democratic, and honest way, it is not by themselves to enter it and receive the support of the State to reduce the pay payment of a fixed gap, under which conditions are presented. I'm not gonna keep my case for a while, and I'm hoping that bill will get paid, because we're gonna need it approved for a month's convention to be on for the next three months. I'd also like to mention that we'd put in a committee opinion wish this would be revised before this period expires in August and that if someone has joined their unemployment rights, they'll be seen to extend that period as they were after the collapse. Then it was extended from 30 months to four years. I encourage the government to see if there is a need for this relief at the end of August.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u106	Madam President. Thank you. For her review and review of the committee's opinion of more things and adjustment proposals, a senator and the manager of the case very much. The objective of this part - time improvement is to maintain our jobs, which we all agree with. Not all of us agree on the best ways to go there. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council is not concerned about the conditions that are different in this matter and the narrative, but it seems to have been shown that they encourage narratives rather than to maintain partial improvement. We already see that more and more companies are taking their employees out of the part-change process. I'd also like to ask why. A senator will be able to support the proposal of a smaller part that has a clearer requirement for an enterprise in the tax industry, so they will not be able to take advantage of these measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u107	A respectable president. It's about the proposal. A senator named them, and we were evaluated by the staff of the governor of state tax. It showed that her condition was highly ecstatic and met with a number of factors that could not be met, e.g. what would be meant by financial relations and other matters mentioned there. It would be very difficult to understand what was really going on in order for governments to carry out what is stated there by law. Regarding whether this will lead to more information, I think a company is facing a decision based on where each one will follow the months that have been gone. It's only natural to have to choose between these two paths; 25% income drop or 75% income loss, that says it a little.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u108	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Only in terms of financial relations do such payments, where they are trying to hide money, take place in various ways. Often, it is done by an enterprise e.g. to sell money at a higher price from a company to a tax bill; it pays a fee to the executives, an abnormal fee to the executives, to a low tax environment, etc. So this suggestion is not invented here. Rather, it comes from experts. In terms of the use of active substances, the employer may change the work of a new employee in the conditional part-time work, i.e. The employer is authorized to make full use of the employee's workers. [[The president calls.]] Does the senator not consider this to be an incentive for companies who are trying to raise themselves to tell people more about it rather than to add them to their stocks?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u109	President. No, I can answer directly that I don't think it's a special impulse. Based on the position of each company, you have to evaluate the reality of how to prevent a business failure, with the consequences for all, society, the company, and the employees who work for it. I think it's a choice that everyone is facing right now, choosing a way that would be the best way to prevent bankruptcy and that people will lose their jobs. With regard to low taxes and tax taxes, we are all concerned that in any way we want to prevent an Icelandic tax-counting company from choosing this option. If a company is going to be so rude to do that, they're also gonna come to light and, under the eye of an inspector, the tax investigator, and I think there's a lot of power in it. If they really intend to use this option in this situation and are breaking the Icelandic law, they are saying to the Icelandic state: Please examine us on the way. [[The president calls.]] It's good, then, that the companies who do it get a proper investigation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u110	A respectable president. We are here discussing the opinion of a majority of the health committees regarding the part-change process. I'd like to ask you what. Whether she feels that the measures he takes are sufficient to reach out to those who are in taxes and try to get money away from them, this is enough to keep them from going that way. Then there's something else I'd like to ask. It has been observed from Government Accounting that there are about 160 individuals who try to raise their salary - expected that they will be taken into account here? It seems to me that today's situation is that the surveillance should take place in the fall or at some point. The question is, Why can we not see that our surveillance is being increased immediately so that such things can be handled now?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u111	A respectable president. For monitoring, the bill provides intensive monitoring, both together-time surveillance and the follow-up of the work programme, which will take certain companies and investigate them in case of a cloudy situation. The employment agency has gained increased funds and has added employees and is directly involved with the government tax office. It is a collection of local pay files and data to the labour oce. This is supposed to be much more powerful than when we had to take action, and quickly, with regard to the first bill for maintaining recruitment relations and not knowing where this would lead us in view of continued unemployment and problems. Now we are going forward to face the situations they are facing and to resolve but also face the fact that some companies will not start a full operation for the next few months and miss. Sadly, going to a unemployment record presents a group of employees. Some companies will work together in the light of today's economic crisis. Therefore, it is very important that we also be extending to income - related improvements in independent individuals and look for ways to keep up with as many as possible traumas during the current crisis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u112	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answers. I have to reiterate my question, whether it feels that the bill will prevent those who have money for taxes, and who have even cheated on taxes and other things, from taking advantage of this route. In fact, it is only possible to simply forbid those companions who have money in the tax industry to apply this way, even if the money is legal in that way. I think it's established by Government Accounting that these matters need to be handled carefully and extra. I really hope that it will be done, and I will see to it that this situation is under way. But we also need to look at a report made by Kingdom Accounting, take a closer look at it, and make sure that its comments are followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u113	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to read The State Review of the Part - Work Way, which, for example, says: that on the bill there is an integrated budget and management requirement for the employer as well as objective criteria, including ... abouta drop of income. As per permission of the President's permission, the report Government Review says: The bill also contains measures that help to increase transparency and support under the supervision of the labour oce. Clearly, companies have taken advantage of the route, although they do not have immediate business or financial problems. This statement by the State Review Centre is a proof of health care for this bill. A cross-examination is not to suggest that something is missing on these conditions or this way to prevent an enterprise from misuseing the resource. We added a requirement for real owners, and we've had to insist that they show up in annual accounts, if they were paying the local bill and the like, and that they submit a CC report which we've repeatedly referred to. [[The president calls.]] If we knew about a magic solution to make companies pay legal taxes to the government, it would have been taken care of. We don't do it through this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u114	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir for history. All I want to do is move the focus from companies who have abused or who will abuse the resources to those who truly need them. A report by the Government Review Study teaches various grasses, and I haven't covered it well enough, so I know it backwards and forth in this brief period of time, which shows that the companies who have taken advantage of the route at the time of the report are about 1: 00 p.m. 6,400. Of these, 85% have six or fewer employees. It tells a story about the amount of money involved. I'd like to start by asking why. A senator: Does she have any sense of how many of these companies have been abusing the resources? At the beginning of her talk, she says that far too many people have abused this option, and that is why it needs to be harded. I don't come into it here, but I'd like to do it in a second answer, I think that's where most of the stuff went too far. But I'd like to ask what information we have, because a government accountant didn't have them, he couldn't answer the high percentage of the 6,400 companies that would have become aware of this. [[The president calls.]] It may be that our information comes primarily from the media coverage on the subject. Then you might ask, " Is the checkup not sufficient because many were reimbursed? ' [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator: Does it or the other part have information about how many companies abuse their resources, feel it, or reason to believe that they are more than have been observed? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What percentage of the 6,400 payers? [[President (BrynH): The President reminds us of the time limit.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u115	A respectable president. It's fine to come in. This ratio was certainly expressed, that in 85% of companies using this financial resources are employees from one to six. 89% of their total wages would have been less than 3 million. But what I said at the beginning, for which the business had abused this way, we know that there were six companies who immediately found out that had done it and that it was visible to the public. Then a business was added, and I understand that 50 companies have reused support to the labour agency. I'm just there and more people are going to need clear rules and penance and clarity, just as National Reexamination requires that it be good in this bill, that public opinion is not enough in itself in this regard. [[The president calls.]] I'm at the point that we need to be clear in that matter and agree with Government Accounting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u116	Madam President. Yes, I hope we all agree that there is a need for rationality. It's just a question of which fences and interests we're building and who we're serving with the measures here of the greater part. Hv. A member of the United States directs a general report to the National Reexamination General, and I would like to ask about one very clearly identified by the Government Review Centre, which was a need for the ability of the employment agency to be a real-time inspector. In effect, it included a review of the administration system, that at the same time as a labour agency is receiving this large role, it was not given sufficient leeway or body strength to perform a real-time check, which the National Review Board considered to be a key factor in the fact that the monitoring took place, would be powerful and fair, both for the state funds and the companies being the right help. There is no reasonableness in the following explanation. I'm asking why. Senator: Is the greater part of this wish, indication and criticism of the State Revision of the Commission and the opportunities made by the Labour Department to conduct real - time surveillance? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u117	A respectable president. I think my mind is that real-time surveillance is very important and the National Accounting will continue to monitor and monitor this. It was also noted that the National Office of Business has received financial support, 100 million that I believe, in order to increase this monitoring further since June 1. She has brought five employees in particular to care for it already, except for other employees who are caring for other assignments. But I totally agree with it. They're responding, and it's very important. It also helps you to get real-time information about whether your companies are falling under these conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u118	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech is excellent. I cut it at the end of the day. In his talk, a senator said that it should not be easy and simple to enter that way. However, the fact is that it was very simple and easy to go this way, including a successful enterprise with a stable economy, an enterprise that did not need this, societies and government agencies. In its report, a public review makes it clear that if the law and the law are reviewed, these sides were not entitled to receive these improvements. Then you ask yourself, " How can it be done, and who is responsible for paying money from a government fund when the law does not allow it to do so? ' Then it is not enough to say that these are unprecedented circumstances, etc. It is simply not possible to pay money from a government fund if there is no legal right. [[The president calls.]] What failed in this process? Why was the law not to be paid out? And I'm asking why. A Congressman: Who is responsible for this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u119	A respectable president. When ships sink and shipmates fall overboard, it is not necessarily asked if they have already paid any fees to what is appropriate. As we face it, we faced unprecedented situations, as has often been said. If we had made every company go through a needle's eye, we wouldn't have been in the place we are today, better than we were on them. It had to be open. There were conditions. Sadly, others went in there, perhaps not out of a bad mind, but only thought, " We have to make a decision here and now whether we're going this way. ' Then it turns out that a company that didn't really need this. We said: " After that time, we're going to reevaluate it. Companies have been so honest that they have given up this money, and that's good. But now that we have advanced in the process of coping with the economic crisis, we are intensifying our requirements. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u120	Madam President. Thank you. The answer is made by a senator, and I wholeheartedly agree that this has been a very difficult situation. But the legal authority here must be clear, and it must be clear who is entitled to this and who is not. Hv. A member of the U.S. National Review Report mentioned this as a proof of health care for the extension of the route, which we are discussing in this bill. So, then, when the report was first used by companies and public authorities who were not entitled to it, is it not also a review of this route? I think that's definitely a wet cry. Then you ask: " Was it not a burden on the work of the committee to have this clear enough to make it clear that a labour agency could see exactly who should receive it and who should not? ' [[The president calls.]] I think the mistake must be in here and in the Committee, the men didn't have it clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u121	A respectable president. I say again and again that I believe that a report of the State Reexamination was a proof of health for the currently existing bill. For that bill to the law which is running its course I refer, by permission of the Supreme Court. President, to what is stated in the report: ▪ All evidence suggests that the part - time ministry has been the most effective way of ensuring pay forwards, supporting employers for contracting and maintaining recruitment relationships. However, it has been found that despite the government's emphasis on the part - time process, support for viable companies who lost a lot of income seems to have been a measure of freedom in the interpretation of the law. Among the members who have made good use of part-time work are companies and firms that have a powerful business and a stable economy... Therefore, this need to be further explained today, with increased conditions, monitoring, and weather conditions. That's exactly what we're doing here on the bill. But if we hadn't gone the other way, I think we'd be in a bad place today, both companies and employees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u122	President. I'm here recommending a commission on bill change of unemployment insurance law and the guarantee of pay remuneration, or what's called the part-change process, its extension. The Covid-19 pandemic and the economic crisis it has brought together with the technological change and the fourth industrial revolution have completely changed society. This changed situation called for a change in government emphasis. Injecting funds to anything that previously created income does not necessarily produce results in this changing environment. Economic systems that governments are now trying to save are also responsible for climate change, stress in people's lives, and conflicting. So we have every reason to try to build up a new, sustainable, green economy and rebuild the workforce according to the needs of the people of the country rather than the companies and the capital. The government's resources in response to an impending economic crisis are designed to sustain and restore the economy as it was, on the basis of capital owners, and to maintain it with the same ratio of power in society. Not to be overlooked was the design of the current labour market model according to the needs of companies and capital owners and gave them a gripping on the everyday life of most workers. The contribution process is on the management of the enterprises and is intended to save them, and thus to save or assist the public on the way through the companies, by maintaining a recruitment relationship rather than direct financial support directly to the public, directly to the people, and thus making it possible. can help companies. Experience has shown that too many drop between ships and docks, and they don't have the right to make it. Often, people in low - income groups fall apart, which is also the most sensitive to loss of income. Instead of the partial reformal process, it may be possible to guarantee all who lose their jobs or to reduce their employment rate by paying them e.g. Unconditioned unemployment improvements and impairment. By enabling people to apply for support directly rather than through the employer and to remove conditions, the public, the people of the country, could be selected rather than the companies. A powerful package of innovation could be set up together with these changes, thus creating new opportunities and creating needed flexibility for people so that they can take advantage of that opportunity. Such a arrangement would not have to be permanent, but it would require temporary resources that encourage people to maintain recruitment relations with the employer on their own terms. It encourages growth in industry and innovation, support the legal rights of homes, and ensures continued involvement in the economy. President. This is an idea that I've been discussing before and that we should take a serious look at because the resources that now go through the part-time and unemployment benefits - imagine the flexibility we would create for people at this difficult time if we were to pay it directly to individuals without condition. It would allow people to continue working part-time in their company to maintain a recruitment relationship, but the authority would happen with the individual who would not be dependent on the company anymore but would decide to work there because he loves it and wants to continue working there, while examining other possibilities, experimenting, moving on in a new reality, and looking at new opportunities that could lead the person on a new course. When it comes to dealing with the partial reform process and other measures by the government, it is of great importance that the government and the Council could harmonize with their work, that the present situation is met by a complete approach and a clear view of the future, that we are ready to learn from what might have been done, and that action is done in good agreement with all those involved. Unfortunately, this has not always been the case with the government's work or the General, in response to a financial crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The actions of the government and the greater part of the council have mainly been characterized by lack of purpose and lack of ability to respond sufficiently to the defects that have been identified. The bill on this subject bears a measure of the marks as well as other government primes associated with Covid-19 and makes 1st smaller things, the one that follows, some serious comments on the subject of that bill. President. A report by the Public Review of the Assessment of the Part Work Guide published yesterday, May 28, provides many criticisms of the partial improvement process, as it was originally carried out. The report, in fact, says: that companies who had no immediate business problems and who had a strong economy, as well as public and rural groups, have been found to benefit from the resources. The bill That Becomes the Law, No. 23/2020, and first fixed the part - improvement process in the law, was never dealt with business problems in the Law text itself. Only temporary reduction in function was required. However, a paper on 1st paragraph showed that. the bill that the resources were intended to meet the conditions of the remuneration people who would need to take a broken heart in the form of a reduced labour rate due to their temporary management problem of the company they are working for but that there would not be a clear separation of it in the law itself. As a result, successful businesses can go through the part-change process without having any business problems. The only condition is that there was a loss of income, which may even be temporary and temporary. So I'm amazed that these obvious defects are not addressed, either in the bill or in the modifications of more parts. By continuing to do the rest of the law, money will continue to be taken into account for a more successful enterprise, instead of going to the people who always have a much greater need for financial support at such times. The Commission's discussion also showed that there were far more rights and resources to use than originally intended. Thus, the above report states that both firms that do not have business problems, as well as government agencies and rural groups, have participated in the partial reform. It can hardly be considered in accordance with the Lawgiver's will that such persons ask for compensation when they were given a paper with the bill that became law-made the law was intended to help an enterprise maintain recruitment relations with their employees during the time of the intense uncertainty of the Covid-19 pandemic and to avoid being taken up by an enterprise that had a temporary business problem. If communities and government agencies need assistance to keep their business going, specific resources must be created for them, and it must be clearly identified as the partial improvement not designed for them. President. At the same time as payment for the extension of the partial reformal process, the General Assembly has discussed a bill for financial support due to the payment of part of the pay period. This will provide financial support from the state funds to pay part of the pay for the staff's notice. A few serious comments can be made in the process of deportation and especially in the interaction with the parts of the process. The declared objective of the part- process is to maintain employment relationships and protect jobs. It is obvious that it must violate the purpose of the land of metallurgy. The way they act is designed to lead them against one another. I consider what is evident in the actions of the government to show the lack of the complete approach and vision that I spoke of earlier. Furthermore, it has to be noted that with the contract and treatment of the bill on the reporting process, nothing seems to have been looked forward to the experience of the partial improvement during the past two months. The bill does not leave the business and payment problem of the company that accepts the assistance, as it has been seen during the day that there is a great need in the part-way, and conditions for the use of the resignation guide are in whole quite a bed. But it was found exactly in the implementation of the part-change process that the more relevant conditions she met resulted in a much greater application in the use of resources, apart from the fact that it creates an obvious motivation for companies to make more use of the information route than the resources we address here, i.e. the part-change process. One of the main problems of the partial improvement pathway is the lack of season monitoring with the utilisation of measures, and it is discussed in a relatively long way in the above report of the Kingdom Review. It says that the Labour Organization has put emphasis on the implementation of measures rather than on monitoring and, in fact, there is no real time surveillance but will be brought up when pressures in the future of the ministry decline. According to Public Review, effective monitoring of the measures needs to be performed immediately, taking the 1st smaller item, the one currently indicated. Therefore, it appears that there is no monitoring now whether those using the resources follow the relevant rules, whether or not to misuse the resources, despite the fact that the employment agency was ensured by an additional 100 million. K. Yet, it seems that it did not work, and there is evidence to suggest that companies misuse the resources. It is necessary to react, and I believe that it would have been necessary to ensure an improved period of time monitoring as well as an extension of the process. It is of prime importance that when so much money goes out of the state's budget to help companies and people in the community, they need to be carefully monitored for the arrangements. This requires ensuring more funding in this relationship and helping the labour oce to ensure monitoring. In addition to the above discussion on the lack of clear conditions and limitations of the part-changing process, I also miss conditions for the community responsibility of the enterprises that use the resources. It must be considered a requirement for a company to receive support from a joint fund that they contribute to the community, that companies and people who are striving to avoid their community responsibilities, e.g. to pay taxes and fees, not to be used for the welfare of this bill. If people with tax assets should not be able to receive government support during a financial crisis, it has been loud in society lately, and I feel that it is both necessary and normal to take it into account. The bill is an attempt to deal with that view, but I don't think it's satisfactory. Of the conditions mentioned in the bill, it is suggested, first, that there should be a requirement for the use of the partial reform guide that an employer carry unlimited tax restrictions in Iceland and has been given the report on the ownership of a CC company. A greater proportion of the welfare committees suggest that there be an added requirement for employers to have submitted a record of actual tax owners. This step is very beneficial. However, while there is improvement, these conditions are not sufficient to ensure that individuals with property and taxes are not benefited by government subsidies, there is no strict prohibition on the use of the resources for those with tax documents. I think it's necessary to place such a ban in the law not only here but also in the narrative bill. The committee received proposals for such a directive from sources, which I believe should rightly have been part of the changes made in the majority of the objects. Then there are a number of other criteria for the behavior of the enterprises to the 31st May 2020, which I generally consider to be improved, but make a comment about the rules for the highest salary of the highest managers. It is a requirement that the owner of the company's highest executives not to be paid for more than 3 million in the period. I request that the highest government officials, the president of Iceland and the prime minister, take a monthly salary of more than 3 million on the one hand and over 2 million on the other, and I believe it will be a blow to the fact that companies who accept public resources, financed by taxpayers to prevent bankruptcy and disclosures can at the same time pay employees in Iceland's president, and almost 50% higher pay than the Icelandic prime minister. It would have been better to have that number lower, but it would also have had to deal with the other administrations of the government, i.e. Your notice date. The bill suggests that the employment agency will be allowed to publish an official list of employees who are paid according to the requirement. If I then insist that this had been done to end the taxpayers'income, especially when it is for private companies. However, in committee hearings and the adjustment made to a greater part of the welfare committee, it is concluded that a greater proportion intends to change the article so that it will not be permitted to publish in the proposed list of enterprises on the part-change process that has six or more employees. This reduces the share from translucency and increases secrecy in the enterprises that use the partial improvement process. I also suggest that there is no evidence to suggest that such limitation should be imposed on the law. Personal protection was conclusive in my opinion when it pointed out in its review that the information about an enterprise does not include personal information and therefore does not stand in the way of personal protection for the publication of the list in its entirety. In spite of this, the majority of the objects still plan to add a further restriction. Is this particularly serious on the 13th floor? Information legislation that places it upon the government to regularly provide information on its activities to the public and to make data available electronically. I wondered, in view of the history of the Federal Protection Agency, why most of the Committee chooses to keep secret thinking out of the personal protection issues that are neither rational nor legal, as well as the principal personal health experts in the country have noted that there is no need. Finally, it is clear to all, including the one listed here, that there is a great need for the support of the State in these times. Economic trauma has rarely or never been affected as rapidly and violently as now. This does not mean, however, that the reaction should be an automatic protection for all previously made incomes. This restructuring of the part-change process testifies to the failure of the government and to the lack of complete sensitivity to the challenge, especially when considered in the context of other administrations of the government and, in particular, the narrative. Instead of taking many slow, quick steps in an open process that involves the common people, not just those who are limited to special interests, with a clear destination in view, the government has decided to make decisions that I am rather random and contradictory, in the back rooms of the council. The conclusion is obvious. Public interests are sacrificed for the interests of a few companies and those who have direct contact with the government. Others simply need to be adjusted if they can. Here we have the opportunity to set priorities for natural, environmental, family, children, and next generation by changing ideologies and economic approach, the opportunity to lay the foundation for human and environmental society, the opportunity to cope with the future, not as it was in the past. With reference to the above reasoning, we will be at Pirata's council, with the final approval of this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u123	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the senator in two things about how a health committee handled this matter. First of all, I'm asking for a state reexamination report. I used to think earlier today, as those senators who believe that the majority of the committee view the report as a health certificate for the bill we address, since it breaks free ends that were on the previous part of the lead improvement, and I think that interpretation could be appropriate. But I feel that people are ignoring what the report also says about how important it is to say clearly, not just here on a talk chair, not just in articles and committees but in lyrics. I'm asking why. A senator may feel that this has been handled well enough, whether there are points that support the bill feels good, but the senator might prefer using lyrics. This is the first thing I want to ask you. The second point is that it's about what it's like. A senator calls a complete approach to this case and to his resignation, this sister's prime launcher in 1st. was said to have to be taken into context. How was that context guaranteed from a welfare committee? How did they deal with the two committees, welfare committees, economic and business committees, things? How did they talk together to ensure some agreement between these matters as a matter of nature about squeezing people of partial reforms into their resignation? That's two ends with the same pipe.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u124	President. I didn't feel that a Kingdom accountant's report was any praise to the current bill. If you read between the lines, I thought it was pretty clear that it was there, that was what I took out of it, mainly being examined for the lack of supervision. This isn't our first time in law. I know it was just being overexcitedly and it had to be rushed through in a great hurry. But we're always messing with our surveillance when it comes to these things. We are never taking a close look at it and making sure that it is clear in the law, exactly as it is. A senator says what the attorney's will is in this matter. Of course, there were many things that we could have done better and especially at the work of the Committee when we had the case. But we had enormously limited time. It was accomplished in a tremendous hurry, and there were many things that could not be delivered, and neither could it be from sources. The worst part I find is that it was not time to look into the report further, which the state accountant had a great deal for coming to us in time, before we gave the Committee's opinion of the welfare committee, digesting the information, and doing State accountant's comments better into the opinion of the greater part, especially in view of the fact that the committee's opinion was not ready until late last night. It would have been a time to take much better into account the comments and viewpoints of a government accountant in the committee's opinion. We're always in such a hurry, and often when it's better to breathe in, think things, and don't have to deal with a huge mistake afterwards. [[The president calls.]] I feel like we're getting into the same problem. I'm sorry I couldn't answer everything.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u125	Mr. President. It's such a short time. A senator could not get over the second part of the question. We'll have another round to take care of it. I think it is a key element of how these matters were worked together or whether they were examined together. It jumps, for example. to us, when we read this case with the resignation at hand, a comparison of the display of the companies who take advantage of each route. The Economic and Business Committee received a bill where the tax was permitted to publish this information and changed it to publish such information, but the welfare committee received a completely comparable plan for the Labour Organization and squeezed it. Was there any work between the committees? Was there any attempt to identify how many individuals are likely to get better from the part - time process to the source or how could these be adjusted so that individuals according to this system can get the most out of their job? Hv. A senator mentioned green accents that were not willing to put in as some of the mild conditions for the biggest strengths, and then there's natural sky shouts, because we must want the fight of Covid to be both green and reasonable, that this case is all different.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u126	Mr. President. Regarding the context of these issues: At the highest level. In his speech, if I do not forget, he spoke to the bill about the upstairsness, that these two issues need to be examined in context, that they need to be examined together. But that's not exactly what they did, and it's possible that one was never willing because one of them goes to the economy and business committee and the other goes to us on a welfare committee. I don't quite understand why these two cases weren't just together, on the same committee. It would have been much more logical because, of course, it hangs together. We can see right away that there are conditions, different conditions, in both primary projections, but overall it's not talking, because there was no teamwork anywhere I know of. Perhaps the head of the welfare committee could tell more about this than my knowledge was no conversation between them. Of course it's crazy. In votes after 2nd. ... foran resignational proposal from the United Nations to add the conditions to the resignation grants, to match them with just the part-change process, which was canceled, there was no one willing to do so. It is obvious that if the conditions in the part-way are stricter and better than the source of enlightenment, then there is obviously the motivation. All I'm worried about is a lot of mobbing. I'm also concerned that we are way too busy, excuse the sleigh, Mr. President, that the authority and the transfer of funds from state funds to companies instead of checking how we can power individuals and how we can prevent this crisis or dive that we are in has a negative impact on our homes and families in our country. [[The president calls.]] We are missing out on a tremendous opportunity to make great changes in society when it comes to our business.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u127	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the United States just published a report on the state reexamination, and I quoted earlier as saying that I felt as a health card on the bill available here, about the extension of a previous bill on the part-side process. Hv. A senator speaks a lot about surveillance and conditions, and I want to know what conditions he sees to be added and whether he can refer to any conditions that are not in the bill that are specifically indicated by a government accountant. If I get to quote the report, by permission of the President, the new bill says: ▪ This includes some. meeting the budget and management requirements for the employer, as well as objective criteria including of income loss - Twenty-five percent. The report also shows that the employment agency has announced an increase in monitoring as the pressures of forward services decline. It has been observed that after the first June, this will be added, a local payment file and information that will come in when companies and hired persons enter these resources, and the check will also be in the hands of the government tax manager. The labour oce has added five employees to work specifically on the surveillance. Is it certain that in the bill there is some inconsistencies and something missing in what is mentioned in the report by a state accountant? Is that not the case, so Kingdom Accounting is well pleased with conditions in this new bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u128	President. I'm not going to stand here and reduce the fact that for a state accountant, it was true that he considered this bill to be a great improvement, and especially when it came to the conditions. And so do I. We should have thought about this much sooner than unfortunately, we didn't. But it's for the better. What's worse is that the resignation bill doesn't have the strict conditions we have here. The way these two partners play together will be able to increase the incentive for people to go to posts and work against the objectives of this bill, which is to maintain the recruitment relationship of people with the employer. I might have wanted to see the greater part put more emphasis on surveillance, based on a report by a government accountant. We received information at the time, when we were working on the original bill, that the surveillance was sufficiently secure. But then, naturally, it became much more urgent than we had realized. As a result, the employment agency was able not to observe what it should have been. We didn't have much to do with it and the government. I would have liked to see it completely secure, although it is quite clear that the application for this process will reduce considerably, and clearly how important that surveillance is, and that it will ensure that the labour agency has all the tools and resources needed to ensure it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u129	Mr. President. Government reviews also showed that the quick response of the government had been required to support employers and expand the right to unemployment benefits and to look to the strong conditions being carried out in this new bill. I just want to come in like a dog. A senator mentioned, regarding the prospect of unemployment without a condition, and for a better explanation. The contribution process has been accomplished by strengthening the recruitment between the employee and the employer. How can you tell? A senator assumes that a recruitment relationship can be maintained if a paid person gets only unemployment without any condition and does not go to these traditional unemployment benefits, as I can understand. A senator? How can you tell? A candidate assumes that his/her employer is obliged to have an employment relationship with the employee and if it is not set apart that there is no default when a future situation occurs, that the individual will be hired by that company? I'd like to have some explanation about what was going on. A senator sees this and whether it is. A senator does not consider the part - help route or the part - time work to be very effective. The majority of people who have dealt with the issue, companies, Kingdom Accounting, etc. have been found to believe that they have responded very quickly. True, the conditions were not strict because the situation called for rapid action. I'm asking why. A senator does not think that we have taken the right course and is now under pressure, as the next step would have to be taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u130	President. Do I believe that the government has taken the right way through the part-change route? I'm just not sure at all. My approach would have been very different, and I would've chosen to go quite another way. I mean, about whether this has worked, I just don't know. The information I have is that 15,000 people have stopped using this option, which is considered a reason to celebrate some success. But we have no information about whether these people were dumped or if they were back in full - time service. It is information that will not come sooner than later. I think history will only have to judge how well this strategy has worked. We don't have that information yet. In terms of inadequate unemployment benefits: When we hire people to control their own lives, and then I'm talking about deciding to control people, we're giving them room to choose to maintain recruitment relations with their company or not. I don't have much work to do. Since this is what most people do not want or even can survive, surely it is an incentive to work more. If the company wants to keep an employee in part-time work, I think it is likely that employees would prefer to stay in part-time work, especially when they have flexibility to experiment in other jobs, to examine other options. This idea has to do with the idea that for a month, perhaps out of the year, we might see how society is affected by giving people this flexibility to work things out. It's a very strange job market we're looking for, nobody knows anything. [[The president calls.]] Everyone is unsure about the future. If we give people this security net, I think we could see interesting things happening, and people and families will thrive. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u131	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a member of the Committee to Re-Elect a Department of Health. This committee is at ease. Councilmen Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson and the one standing here, and also supporting oar. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson this committee view and the proposed changes. Mr. President. The share - improvement process, government resources to deal with the temporary business crisis of businesses following a pandemic crown virus, has been much new since the date of legalization in March. The application for unemployment improvements due to reduced employment percentages became considerably higher than expected, with a total of over 37,000 employees and many companies making use of the resources. At first, the objective of the government was primarily to provide employment and employment relations with employers. The committee took a whole mind to that end and worked hard to complete a quick bill for partial improvements so as to prevent the mass launch and bankruptcy of companies in mid - March 2020. Was determined to shorten the time of the bill so that governments could have the opportunity to revise their options immediately after two months, assess its impact and costs. Many other measures have now been introduced that are primarily to support the companies in the country and include the bill for the legal support of a government fund due to the payment of part of the pay on notice. Is that a matter now for the treatment of the General Assembly, and should be completed in parallel with the hatching of the case that we discuss here. Other smaller things express concern that governments now offer no means of ensuring the rights of employees as well as their ability to cause, as well as companies, unnecessary damage. In the treatment of the Committee on Pronunciation of partial improvements, there were various viewpoints when this was relevant. There was a need to change the resources in that companies would have to meet some criteria for supporting their employees. There were reports that the stationary company, which did not have signs of a significant temporary business problem, was taking advantage of the resources by impairing the staff's employment ratio and making them a discriminatory salary collection in the employment insurance fund. At the same time, there was also evidence that companies were impairing their employment rate but that they subsequently quit employees despite new resources. Governments immediately responded by pointing out that this was against the law that was aimed at maintaining a recruitment relationship and not at the end of it. They responded immediately when news of this was received. Therefore, the decision to extend a budget to be handled in any way, so that those companies that did not seem to be in dire need of public support for their business did not receive financial resources from public funds. It should be noted that it was possible to react sooner than most of the welfare committee chose to wait rather than wait for the matter that we are here to handle at the Assembly Hall. Therefore, in the bill on the extension of a part-change process, which was submitted along with the National Fund bill for support due to the payment of part of the pay period, there are various conditions that companies are required to confirm that they meet, so that their support could be supported. This is the same conditions as in other measures for support to an enterprise in a pandemic crown virus problem only to a small extent. The committee was concerned about the failure of these measures, as they might lead companies to further developing support from a government fund to resign workers instead of trying to keep it in part-time because the criteria for reporting may be much easier to lawgivers than in the bill that covered partial benefits. In this way, the firmness of the box that companies would be put in a bill to correct partial improvements would be directly encouraging to companies to take the resignational route instead of partial reforms. This was also the case with the treatment of the Committee, including from employers but also from remunerationrs, that by the administration of government treatments, there were discrepancies in the workforce of a hired person's salary during the time of last resort. In this way, the employer could use only the employee's employee's work force in the part-authority we're considering, but the employer's authority on the full use of the employee's services at the end of the notice, during the same period, with the support of public funds. This would be an obvious incentive for a company to take advantage of their resignations, depending on what happened, if the situation allowed, to re-enact an employee after the notice. Part 2 grieves that it seems, in these last days of May, that the concerns posed by the committee on the issue of misunderstandings were well established. More and more companies are reporting that they are taking part-way employees and are now resigning at the end of a month. Another reminder shows that the committee repeatedly made sure that there would be a full correlation between these measures and prevent such inducers. 2. smaller parts cannot be seen that the greater part agreed on this, but no changes were made to the criteria for conformity. In the bill for the legislation on the extension of partial improvements, the employment agency is given permission to publish a list of enterprises where employees use the support of the Agency due to reduced employment rates. The committee asked a few questions about the right to limit publishing of a list to a company with five candidates or fewer, just as the employment agency had decided in the interest of the P.A. It is known that the Federal Protection Agency had sent a letter to the labour agency that the personal protection laws were not valid for law enforcement and that the Agency was permitted to publish the list of enterprises unsatisfactory. To the commission, this was the opinion of Perone Protection, as well as the obligation of the government under Article 13. Opportunities, No. 140/2012, to inform the public about their activities and for the sake of considerable government funds, the public would have the right to obtain such information without limits. It would not be necessary to restrict the number of employees in a way that would not be used in other government sources of information, such as inflation of companies. Therefore, the contribution of a second minimum is made to the public's right to information on the provision of public funds and to suggest that the arrangement remain as it came from a minister. If it's the 17th requirement. The law on unemployment insurance with regard to poor employment rates is compared to comparable resources in other countries in the north. The North countries seem to have had a fixed system for temporary loss of employment rate due to annual cycles and economic contractions and pay unemployment insurance to each country, that ratio to pay against the employer. In the provision of temporary XIII, which was legalized in March. can only be found to have comparable systems, so it can be said that other states of the North have been better equipped to implement comparable measures due to a pandemic crown virus. The conditions of the bill set up on every company in the country that uses will not be comparable in other parts of the North countries. Danes demand a statement that if a company has accepted more than $60 million, it will not be paid or its own things bought the year 2020 and 2021. $1.2 billion, in support of the government. There are no such financial limits in the bill due to support in part-way improvements for the terms of support. Sets less 2 smaller items on this basis so that small and medium-sized enterprises that do not have large sums of money in support, as confirmed in a report of Government Review, are not the same conditions as big companies that put tens and hundreds of employees on this resource with millions and even billions of dollars of government funds. Other smaller things worry that the conditions of the bill, regardless of the sum of money, support and size of an enterprise, are designed to inhibit the necessary job creation and the restoration of jobs. They affect SMEs in a way that is hard and unusual. A report by Government Review shows that 85% of the enterprises that use the resources have six or fewer employees. Thus, the majority of companies do not employ such support that justifys as much extensive and long - term limitation of their employment as the bill goes on. The approach thus conflicts with the previous government declarations of specific support to SMEs and, above, more specifically, to SMEs than to a decline in employment ratio. So another smaller portion suggests that 50 million dollars would be paid to employers who have received a total amount of money. K. or more during these periods, the requested conditions. Another smaller point points out that the bill's regulations are not in harmony with the wording used in a report, which says: It is therefore considered unnatural to be paid concomitantly or to engage in other similar arrangements at the time of official support. In view of the 2nd wording, it is less than a fraction of a miscommunication. It could be understood that it is solely money money money and similar measures to be taken to the end of August 2020. It remains that if restrictions are extended beyond the time of official support, questions about how long restrictions should be ignored and why such a time limit is chosen should be answered. The question also needs to be made whether it can somehow take on employees and employees who cannot be the object. Encouraging limitations, e.g. a year longer on the bill than in Denmark, but there are still other conditions and companies are stratified by size and size. It is not clear why it is decided when companies in Iceland are considerably less than that, and the negative effects of conditions are higher. A compromise between society's interests with quick employment structure, and because support is not used unless necessary, would be to let limitations hold for one to two years, but not three, and do not leave the same conditions for all companies. It creates an unhealthy environment. The thought and reason for limitation are rather clear. They are aimed at preventing non-precautious management of funds or payment from special benets if an enterprise has received official support. We understand. Let us not dwell on the fact that various employment sectors are fully dependent on official support and have been for many years without any comparable restrictions on the law. Another smaller portion of the bill doesn't think it's right to leave the bill under pressure 15% of the pressure to repay the employer for support. There is no authority in the bill for employers to repay employment insurance, unless under 15% of the pressure their employees have received, the company is no longer dealing with business problems and income losses. The law, once the bill has been agreed, must ensure that enterprises that will succeed in the immediate future, which we should all hope to happen, will be enabled to restore support and resume normal activities without burdensome restrictions. That's how we make the motivation. Therefore, 2 smaller items suggest changes in the bill that the employer repays his or her own initiative because of part-time improvement will not be brought to 15% stress. Such the font of a company to have such initiatives, write them to social responsibility. We'd like to encourage a company when it's a good way to reimburse our joint funds for the support they've been given, give them a chance. It is important to note that the criteria go against the rights of employees who are involved in a business but who need to be instructed to get their cut in cash because of the limitations of the bill. Analyst. This suggests that 2 less items violate the aims of the resource that were primarily to ensure the right person's salary and therefore suggest that changes in the bill can be made that, despite the strict conditions, the stored items owned by the employees who have been appointed are such a part of the recruitment process by an employee. Mr. President. The duration of rights to improvement the labour rate seems very different by European countries, but in many countries it seems that the countries are working very hard to avoid being exposed rather than to try to keep people in the recruitment relationship. From that we walked in the beginning. If only a short period of time is thought of, the government prefers to raise the amount of money that comes to the payman. For short - term options, the amount of money is higher. In many areas, however, resources are effective for longer periods of time. In Finland, Germany, Switzerland, and France, a decision was made that a payant could have support due to a decrease in employment rate for 12 to 13 months due to Covid. In Germany, the government supports the labour market in a poor occupational percentage at the beginning of the work impairment, supporting more with the child population during this year's trip, but increasing support, as a longer percentage of work remains. It seems that at the beginning of a period, workers are more likely to have a reserve that can be walked on that will decrease as time passes. The more support the employee and his family needs. A smaller section will direct them to the government to look for any means to reduce the risk of mass data and to already be examined as to whether support should increase rather than reduce the benefits of pay paid. In fact, it has been said that some business opportunities to use government resources have been used by their owners or managers to store part of their income or their partners in low taxes or in taxes. Government officials claimed that our resources would be fully expedient for this and that it would be out of the question that those who did not participate in paying in our common fund made goods from the same fund. For the Committee and the conference, it was held that the bill on the company's terms to have a tax home in the country and that companies declare that they have returned a so-called CFC report is sufficient to prevent companies from making use of the tax industry. As a result of this discussion, the Committee moved experts to explain whether the law was adequate and to appear before the committee of the tax investigator and the representatives of the Thomson. All these experts who work in this every day agreed that the above conditions for domestic taxation and the declaration of a CC report would not be confirmation that companies and their owners take advantage of tax collections and thereby concealing revenues in order to avoid taxpaying the country. They all agreed on that. A smaller section made an attempt to receive this provision fortified before leaving the Committee's Committee, but the majority did not agree on its need and/or possibility. Talked about it being simply impossible, too complicated. This bill was not about us trying to root out a tax bill. Therefore, there were no changes to the law other than the addition of the requirements for a company to inform about the real owners of a community. In addition to the importance of such information, a smaller 2.2 section contributes to changing the regulations of the bill as reflected in the changes made to a special Senate document, ensuring that tax authorities are not using this method. The status of the independent active persons, preferably monotonous, who have found it difficult to make use of part - time improvements, was discussed. A long wait has been made for answers from the Work Department, 8◯10 weeks, about the possibilities available for this group on either its own social security number or in some sort of group. The labour oce made it clear that the condition of a legitimate improvement is clear that a recruitment relationship is involved and would not be considered to be the case with the individuals who pay the calculated price for their social security number. They could not take advantage of the part-change process because there was no recruitment relationship, so they would have to make use of the resources of the overall unemployment system. It was observed, however, that the number of such individuals is only in poor jobs and that they could be assigned to do a job for a day or so, but they would have to inform the Labour Office, and improvements would fall that day. The problem of those looking for a welfare committee seemed to be that they could not concomitantly find an effective job search. That wouldn't be their purpose. They were examples of cab drivers who take tours and tours but who are unable to work together as required in unemployment insurance, since they will not return their rights. In addition, there were cases of monographers with job positions that require work every day and therefore are not able to keep active jobseekers, e.g. Artists, designers, anything. They are not going to change their field of service and have some work to do. Therefore, 2 smaller items suggest the change allowed to be separated from the 1st team. 18th par. of unemployment insurance due to this group of independent active individuals during the run-in period, they will submit confirmation of the tax on a significant decline in business. Thus, these people can take advantage of this option without having to work a job search. A report published by the National Re-evaluation Department: Professional improvements due to a decrease in employment rate, handed down and presented to the Health Committee on May 27, showed that the problem of the resource was already in place for the Agency's chances of an under-establishment byenterprises and whether they meet the requirements for the ability to obtain resources. The Work Programme reports that since the introduction of a previous bill to the management of the Directorates and Health Committee of the Generals, it is impossible to, based on the scope, the amount of human resources, and technology it is dosed by the government to take care of the ongoing monitoring conditions that companies must meet. It should be noted that in this government budget on payment due to part-time work, the pay will be paid to the employee rather than to a company but will not be overlooked as well as support for an enterprise that receives the option to reduce the work ratio of its employees and thereby reduce the pay amount. A report by the Re-evaluation of the Member States gives clear evidence that there were new enterprises which did not have a major business problem, as laid out in law on the need to be in place. A worldwide crowning virus has caused a large number of companies to take up this resources without perhaps having a major business problem. The lawgiver's will was clear. A serious business problem had to be in place. It is clear from the report and the comments of the National Reviews that it is necessary to promote real - time surveillance in order to prevent misuse of the resources. Part 2 emphasises that the Labour Office will immediately be allowed to collect information on tax taxes from tax subsidies, such as from a valuable tax system, the income tax system, and the tax reporting system of taxation. There's a clear legal authority on unemployment insurance law, it's just not enough technology. This is only possible by funding to the Agency and by government recommendations that such effective time monitoring will be immediately started. In itself, a statement and knowledge have been made that there is a real monitoring of these resources. If the government thinks it's impossible, I'd like to remind them that in one week, the high-tech Covid operations department could be established in new housing. It was possible at the same time for the Walk Department of Covid, at an old nursery in Fos Sow, and at the same time, it was possible to create a powerful tracer or an app. This was done in a few days. All of this was possible because the government wanted to, because it was appreciated. Mr. President. I think it's necessary that we expand the work programme, that we increase the surveillance agencies in Iceland to prevent such products as we've done in the community. It weakens the public's solidarity. If he gets the feeling that we're not sticking together and some people are abusing the system, the same thing goes wrong. Therefore, part 2 of my memory emphasizes the importance that this will be guaranteed and given to the Government Accounting Committee. Well, then I've been over that committee opinion which my second section supports. Under it, write the one that stands here. Senator Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, hearing officer, supports.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u132	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's story was 2nd smaller. I wanted to ask you what. Each of the smaller parts of the body feels that it is contaminated by the organisations that have an alternative option. Now there is a big difference between the part-changer and the source of resignation. The requirements for entering these are very different. In the second resort, the partial improvement route, income contractions need only 25% to enter it, while they have to be 75% recovery contractions in the reporting route. There's another big difference between the ways. The company needs to accept support on one way, but the employee is supported by the other. It's full of all kinds of stuff like that. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator: What is the injury? What does the senator think is a large part of these companies that have any real choice? If the companies fail to be able to take the part-change route, they may not be able to go on the resignational route by themselves. It's just a long road away. As far as I could understand the workforce, many have gone because of the part-change process already because the resources have worked and the company has been able to hire people. The number of people who come out of the narrative remains to be revealed. We'll find out later. But for most people who have reported leaving the part-way improvement process, it was because workers had a full-time employment record again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u133	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. Regarding the injury, how many companies get into the narrative route and the part-change process and the difference in income loss, it's true that there's a difference. However, we have to understand that the companies that are currently dealing with major business problems, the companies who are dealing with a complete loss of income, often nearly 100% of revenue - companies in travel service, the media are often in the media, and the number of different services, advertising agencies, design companies, artists, major and small artists, theaters, sports companies renting homes and chairs on all their entrances - we can only go to the list of Kingdom Accounts and point to the companies with almost 100% of revenue during this period, and many of them have changed little. Someone can go back on the road, others just not at all. I heard an artist this morning, an amazing artist, the Borgar of Magnússon, talking about that it was probably a year before the art world would recover or get somewhere. Under these are artists, technicians, people renting halls, etc. So it's the injury, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u134	A respectable president. I'd like to follow this just because I was asking what the senator would think a lot of companies, of those who could possibly use the part-back route, would be like, with a drop of less than 75%, it would have no choice to leave the notice. They have only decided whether or not they will take advantage of the part - help process. If they can't take advantage of it, they don't have a way to go for notice because they don't have a 75% payload. That's the second question. Then there's another question about a business like a cot. A senator was describing, and I can totally agree to be there: Can the senator see that these companies, regardless of all their conditions and will be on the way with a 90% drop in income, have a 100% income drop, have any choice of going the part-time job route? Can they afford to be committed for several months to pay up to 50% of their pay? Do they have any choice? What I'm trying to point out is that there are two lines of conflict when it is said that the difference between the paths and the conditions is pushing people on a false route. A company does not have a choice because income is not enough or because they don't have the option because the income is so high that they can afford to pay the counterweight that it takes to go to the part-change process anyway. Finally, I'd like to ask, if what. A senator has time to answer: What are his companies going to repay? What support do they have to repay because they do not receive support? It is the hired man who gets it. How are the companies going to repay it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u135	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for later answers, and he's going to start with the question at the end. Already some company has decided to pay back the support they have received from a labour agency, and I think that everyone agrees that even though the hired man is getting this, he is much more interested in being at 100%. Even though it looks like it's for the payman, it's for the company. Let us not forget that this morning, Icellands made a decision to take all their people out of the part - time process, requiring that they go to a reduced employment rate without getting anything back or losing their salary. It will be interesting to see if the person who says, "No, I'm not ready for it will be let down now before the month's conventions to get on the plot. " This is a company that is clearly tailored for that resource. Whether an enterprise has a choice to make use of the part-change route if they cannot pay 50%, of course, there are plenty of these enterprises that cannot afford it. But let us see that for some company it may be a temptation, especially for the summer months when Icelanders may be able to travel, and we do not know which foreign tourists will come, to put people on the false list rather in order to be fully used by their workers. It's not possible in the part-change process. We've heard from the Blue Lagoon's guardian, e.g. which I don't know better than I'm going to do, quit 400 employees now, and took people off the part-way and plan to do it like this. [[The president calls.]] I don't know if that's the case, but he declared in the media that he was going to use his employees.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u136	A respectable president. This is where we're dealing with the highest bill. societal minister on extension of authorization to pay unemployment benefits to remuneration, along with a temporary decrease in employment rate due to a temporary loss in the activity of the employer. It's also an extension of a warrant for unemployment reform that we agreed on earlier this winter. This is followed by a bill adopted here on March 20 and was followed by the government's response to a major problem created in a labour market, followed by Covid. We caught a wind storm and, as sometimes, we're going to land on a shield, and then we're going to have to take on rescue. No one asks: " How are we to do this, or to whom shall we save? ' People just throw out the rescues that exist. Then, during the rescue procedures, it is sometimes better to review what was successful and what could be done better. That's why we have this bill in our hands today and we have more conditions and we're gonna cover it better. The bill had not been in the ministry for a long time and was approved here at a short time earlier in the winter, but it was indistinguishable and has lived up to the expected expectations. They've both heard from employees and union unions who're holding the employee and from companies because uncertainty was complete and many companies were involved in the partial reform process. Some may not have had to, but others were completely uncertain. The purpose of the law was also. to help companies keep recruitment relationships with their employees despite temporary labour difficulties. The law included two temporary terms that were added to the law on unemployment insurance and one provision temporarily to legalize the budget of pay. It has been clear that these laws, temporary to May 31, just this month, have been of great benefit and have reduced the uncertainty of what both earners and businesses were facing. This bill is being suggested to extend this process, adding conditions and monitoring, as has already been called upon in the community. A respectable president. This has been discussed with the review of The State Review, which decided on its own to initiate a follow-up with this process, which was published on the homepage of Our Kingdom Review yesterday. A government accountant also introduced a welfare committee, as well as the report that we were able to provide him with questions that were readily answered. In the media and in this public discourse, the smaller part has gone a long way and would like to develop this report as a rod to governments and a sentence on the recovery process. That's not true. It is not, and it is not possible for anyone to study the report on the Web site and review it, as it is, as presented here, a further proof of health care. The results of this report from a government accountant show that on May 15, 37,000 employees and 6,436 employers used their part - time work. This means an increase of 56 billion in income-free insurance expenses that were not originally expected. It is noted that this is a good way for employees and also a relief period for workers who faced difficult contractions by reducing their pay costs and thus avoiding enlightenment. It is made clear in the review of Our Re-evaluation that this method is used to ensure pay forwards and maintain recruitment relationships. This includes all aspects of the government's objective. The report points out that unless this route had not been passed, it may have been necessary to face the same cost elsewhere in government operations. In this regard, we may especially be talking about our communities. They have called a lot for the Kingdom to come to help. If this route had not gone along, the advancement of the rural society would have been severely tested, and their problems would have grown even further. They also face a big loss of income as well as plan to speed up projects to meet the effects of Covid. This has been a drop in income from an equation fund, so the problem of rural society will not end at the end of the year. They will suffer a massive drop in income and a huge increase in expenses due to the current economic catastrophe. This route is likely to come to the aid of rural areas in the country. They've been begging the government for further assistance. They have a natural obligation toward their subjects, so it can be said that this way moved them to assist them there. State accountant's guidelines focus on the need to increase surveillance and conditions. It says a word in the report, with the permission of the president: A survey of government officials points out that unprecedented economic conditions have called for quick response from the government to support employers and expand the right to unemployment. In spite of this, it is urgent to be monitored for the use of government funds, to place a guard for the interests of state funds, and to take into account the will of the Lawgiver. A respectable president. This is exactly what is recorded in this bill, to increase monitoring and set conditions. It is suggested to increase the budget and management of the employer. In addition, it must be shown that there is a temporary contraction of the employer's activities as well as confirmation that certain conditions relating to its activities are met. At the same time, the labour agency is provided with additional sources of data collection and guidelines for the violations and conditions of the part-way improvement. This is what a government accountant points to. It had already become part of a welfare committee discussion, and it had turned into a majority opinion from the committee, so we began to react to it. The system we set up gave us a chance to abuse. That is why this bill is submitted in addition to the further requirements for government assistance by companies and thus is called the forwarding of a richer community responsibility for companies. In the beginning, we did not see beyond the situation. Now we have only begun to see the land, so we know the boundaries we can set. Therefore, these changes are taking place now. We're setting limits we couldn't do in the winter, because that's when we didn't see a country. Many companies have now begun to see what land is like. As some say, some companies do not see their country and may have to do with the information route, but I call out for the companies who are now on reasons behind closed doors and decide if they should resign and use the support they give or put their employees on part-change. I don't think it can take a long time, because if a company has arrived to have to resign from the staff that way if they don't save them, I'd say. Thus, these routes are very different. As stated in the state accountant's report, most of the companies have very few employees, even the majority with one employee. Some of these companies do not see any income for the next year. What do they do? I think this group of companies that are talking about are companies in tourism. Maybe they're starting to see where they're headed. Some see the next year's income drop. Then it's not a difficult choice. Then there is another way they choose, or they may lose 75% or even 100% of their income. They don't go part-back. Once we're seeing the land, we'll have to choose a route, whether we'll be able to tap onto rocks, or go on rocks. That's what I'm talking about. We are offering two different solutions to which we can choose. Perhaps the part - help route has been successful. It shows numbers. Some 37,000 employees took advantage of this and are on the list at the Labour Department. There are 20,000 jobs in the state. So we are talking about a tremendous, powerful operation that has helped everyone, both wage and rural, as well as the state. As I've often said with my rural society, it's like running a big home. It's just a little bigger home. If you take someone out one door, he'll just come in through other people's houses. That's where we're putting under the leak. Now that the code lifts and starts to be seen in the country, we can safely extend this process over the summer. It is important to learn a lesson from it and to set the conditions in this bill following the part-change process. The objective is still the same as it will go on. According to the Labour Department, 15,000 people reported their options, and hopefully they have fully submitted to their recruitment relationship. It's the best thing that could come out of this. I don't think we have to stand in this character, as it seems to be between committees, which way is better, which way to go further than the others, and it's an emergency advice in companies to choose to quit their employees. A company with 100 employees who are going to resign all their employees is just gone. That's what it says. It's not like we run a hotel here with zero employees. That's clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u137	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator as to whether it's normal what you've heard is that a government company and rural society operates this way. I don't think that was the original thought. If government organizations are using it, it's like taking money out of one pocket and moving it to the other. It's a very strange move. I also put a question mark with my rural society and a government accountant made a comment to that, too. Then I'd also like to consider that we know that in the tourism service most of the money went through foreign accounting sites like booking.com and so on. They pay a considerable portion of them for expenses. However, we know that a certain group is involved in foreign accounts and has to deposit in them. I've often asked myself how much it is and how much comes here. See what? A senator might find out that it is not a matter of helping someone who just doesn't need help and who just has enough money? It tells itself that it will never be the purpose of this law, so somehow it must be placed under this leak.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u138	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. As far as rural communities are taking advantage of this route, I think that two or three societies took advantage of it. The work of a community can be different. I don't know which agencies in my community went that way, I don't know it. True, the situation was such, as indicated in my speech, that uncertainty was absolute, and they may have felt that they needed help. In the same way as the State, so are the communities that are not fired. Maybe it's with the government institutions where it goes from pocket to pocket. I don't know what they've driven them to go that way. But this was at least available, and they took advantage of it, and if it's been so that it's gone from one pocket to another, I think it's the same thing. In terms of being able to interest an enterprise that doesn't need this way, if she is, we think we are taking something for it, as it was possible. Hv. A member of the committee is with me, and before the committee, there were tax examiners and government tax managers and others who discussed how difficult it was to care completely for this. As legally as it is, it is naturally immoral, and you just call for the community responsibility of the companies in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u139	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer, give Halla's Signý Kristjánsdóttir. I can inform you that according to Government Accounting, one step and two settlements, which, as it were, were used this way with 15, six and six employees. Then there was a village of 36. We know that. I say in my place with the state, yes, it leaves one pocket to another, but it may not be necessary for government agencies to do this way with the related applications and the cost of finishing them. I just don't think that's necessary. True, we cannot prevent fraud in this system, but we have an obligation to pay for it in every way possible. Counts 'em out. A senator really, as it is set up, that a labour agency is qualified and can handle these matters right now? Or is it as if we were suspected and seemingly suspected, that it can't be fully monitored until the fall or the next winter? Of course, it takes those who are to be hired there to gain some experience and knowledge of how to do this. I'm afraid the situation will be paid first, to be investigated.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u140	A respectable president. I find it in the state accountant's report that there are three societies that use this and a total of less than 30 people. There may be some activity, such as the Strandland, in which there are six individuals, who are in the B Company, who are not active during the Covid interval. I don't know this situation, but communities are not being thrown into the same account as the state. In terms of labour management, I trust her completely to monitor this once she has obtained the tools, by sharpening her condition and by following what the Agency is going to follow. It allows personnel to be hired who are expected to have the ability and read to review it. I understood that five employees were in the work programme and that this should further strengthen it. I trust them completely to take care of it, and they've done a great job in this job. We're talking about 37,000 people on that list, and this is getting bigger than government employees. They've done a hell of a job.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u141	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. There were a few things you just hang out for. Hv. A member of the council concluded that there was a character between committees as to which route was better. I think it must then be necessary to inform those who are listening that there seems to be a huge disagreement between the parties these minutes and the hours about what is happening. This is where members of Congress have been called. We have more than one and two conference breaks, and a meeting is not conventional because it is obvious that there is no agreement with the way governments are going together. This is not about any rivalry between the II Parliamentary committees. It is simply pointing out that the resources being offered here, as the major part, whether all or part, will support, are very controversial because it is debated whether they will do more good or cause more damage. Right away. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir makes little less of the discussions that have been here and take place in any side room, as if it's just a matter of humor for the interests of the country and nation to come of years, I have to say I'm quite surprised at how insignificant she looks at it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u142	A respectable president. Once again, the chairman of the welfare committee turns away from my words. I'm not trying to minimize the discussion here, I'm just participating in it. Is there anything you can turn out of it? The discussion is about ways of physics and of which companies will jump because they are better or worse in this regard. The critical approach to a financial committee has shown that it is better and simpler for an enterprise. I don't think it's any sense to bring it up here, and I'm not trying to minimize that discussion because, of course, such a big case needs to be discussed. We're talking about a 56 billion increase in unemployment insurance. There are differing views about whether we need to set conditions for it, both to companies and even to employees, and perhaps to expand to some groups that do not put their arms around us today. The discussion has been alive since March, and there's nothing unusual about it and I'm not minimizing it, not at all. But it's okay for her to come out and I'll join her.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u143	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I was merely referring to her own words as she spoke of that she did not realize how the discussion was here; it was just some character between committees as to which route was better. That's what I wrote down after. Senator. I wasn't saying that. The senator could not present his opinion here, nor should he participate in the discussion or anything at all, not at all. I also noticed in my talk. A senator said that she said it was completely different, and it wouldn't be possible for a hotel driver or hotel owner to run 100 employees, because you don't run a hotel at zero employees, I'll write here, and I'll be right after you. Senator. Now's the time. A senator realizes that the bill for the treatment of the Economic and Business Committee is about to turn to the government's pay, pay, and pay on notice. In that bill, the owner of a hotel is not exactly talking about running it at zero employees. Rather, the owner of a hotel is getting the government to pay the employees' salary for the notice, for example. for the next three months about The time that can make a difference about the business. [[In...]] [[Up front.]] He's not gonna run a hotel at zero employees, he's gonna run in their hard work... A senator, who has repeatedly interrupted the program. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] But it is the very difference, that in the process of reporting, the employer will be able to fully exploit the activities of the deceased. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u144	A respectable president. What I meant was that when a company chooses which way they're going, I feel that business routes are very different. You're right about what you're doing. A senator who on one side will keep his employees on notice, and then they'll have to leave.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u145	Or be reprobate.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u146	- Or be rephrased. But there must be a much larger decision that comes to the company when it cancels employees, even if they get paid from the state in the resignation. They look for the removal of the activity, at least to a large extent. But if it does during the part-change process, then the thought must be that it will start again in the form it was when the way was chosen. That's what I'm talking about. The ways are very different. So the companies have to decide which way to go. I think the discussion is a little bit lost, that the roads are very similar, and it's better to go on notice. Hv. A senator said today, I think, I may not be as quick to write as the senator, that the government is running a company in groups. I don't think it's like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u147	There we disagree.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u148	There we disagree.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u149	The president's request is a good sign. 12th p.m. We're out of Suðvest. to have pushed him down the corporate ladder twice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u150	A respectable president. Here we will discuss the extension of the part-change process, and today we were discussing the bill that companies are getting their pay for their notice. I said in a speech earlier today that this government is kind of Covid's, but the truth is, I'm afraid it's a financial illness. It twists away from the state's budget so that it runs out not billions of dollars, not hundreds of billions, but hundreds of billions of dollars. This crisis is accompanied by pain, betrayal, and also by severe delirium. But thank God that this economic sickness is not contagious, so it does not need to be infested or about 20 feet [2 m] away from it. But there is also good news, for there is a cure for this disease, a simple cure. It's here for the memory of the part. Let's accept the memory of the item, and it'll be much better. But as we were warning today, it will never be. No matter how good ideas come from the smaller parts, they're all underwater. The government says no, making more use of the part. The odd thing is that after much overcrowding and discussion, it has been reported who uses these routes but the list stops with less than six employees. This is because the Labour Office decides, not because Perone Protection is concerned about violating a personal protection. It is the exception of an amazing number of companies. I say for my part that there should be no shy matter who's going to use this route, that's exactly what should be on the table, and indelibly, that the public and everyone can observe who they are. That's why the game is done, so the surveillance will be much better. Then there is the question of how we will conduct this surveillance. There are various ways in which you can do this. However, the best and strongest monitoring is that people, both in relevant companies and others, who are knowledgeable and able to monitor, monitor and report if they know or suspect that there is a worm in the memory and that this system is being abused. In today's debate, if I recall correctly, the manager of the greater part, w. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, that it was not easy and that it was really hard to apply for the part-change route, in itself perhaps much easier to apply for an appointment. But is it difficult to seek government reform? Get anything from the state fund? No, it's a very easy way. You just have to put in the papers and make sure all the paperwork is in, and if you do, you get in the way. But if you're going to apply to get into the social security system on disability, will there be such a simple way to return paper? No, it's a long way from here. Then it begins with the sort of thing between Heródes and Pílatus, to find the necessary documents, and endless notes of returning more paper. When that paper load is finished and the person has returned it, and he thinks the bear has now won, put everything in place for the insurance centre, has already started the dance. That's when the humiliation starts. The person is sent to a town where he is turned up and demonized to know if he is a traitor. The data and reports provided are not followed, no, all the facts need to be verified. Such treatment is inappropriate and humiliating, but it is not for the people mentioned here, just those who are sick receive such treatment. And when that treatment is completed and the person is accepted into the system after perhaps one to two years, demeaning monitoring therapy and even to a partner who may be affected by whether or not the person is improved. In this case, as we are pouring out hundreds of billions of dollars from the state funds, it is very easy. I've already checked it out, and if I had a company with a bunch of guys at work and had to choose which way I'd like to apply for them, I'm pretty clear about it, that makes sense, that I wouldn't apply for the part-change process. I'd apply directly to pay for your notice, make the state pay their dues, make the people work their resignations. Then what? It's all gone, then it's only been three months or six months. Actually, this goes on for three months. We're running out of notice. Then people can be dismissed and reordered, but on what terms, and in what order? Unfortunately, we know and have heard over the past few days that more companies are breaking up, and many companies seem to be very stable, paying enormous sums, high requests, managers on a huge amount of pay, but they don't stop. This stopped some of them, and they repeated their support when the companies realized that the public was not satisfied that they were applying for the part-change route. But I'm afraid it's a short-of-the-art thing and they'll come back. We must take full account of the publication of Kingdom Review. A member of the Management Board placed much emphasis on getting the report to the welfare committee. It actually shows that there are 160 people who applied for an increase in pay. These 160 applied for an increase of 114 million. If we split this 114 million even, you don't know if it's right, but maybe we're talking about about $350,000. every month for an increase. Why don't we put it in touch with the unemployment benefits today? I don't know if it's valid, but you still find it very strange, and there was a state accountant also, that there was something strange going on there. Tax snow. Yes, it has been observed during the last days that companies there have applied for the administration of the government and received it. Enterprises registered in the European tax industry that do not hesitate to put dozens of people on welfare. A company that we have no idea how much money goes abroad. Companies that have paid a tremendous amount of money and huge profits are in there. A company with the executives and directors on a huge salary, millions of dollars. This shows blackness that the moral standards of a certain person, fortunately few, do not appear to be on many fish. Most people are honest. Most people need some sort of research. We've also seen that government companies and rural communities have gone that way. That tells us a story. It can be quite normal if you get information about exactly why these societies went this way, but it was not expected that rural or federal organizations will enter these options. Looking at the original subsidies, it sums up how wrong we can calculate here at a council and how blind it was in this process of improvement. This is stated in the National Review Report, which states under the permission of a president: Some 37 thousand employees and 6,400 employers have new government resources because of reduced employment rates. This is a much larger number than expected when the decision was originally introduced to the Council by a bill later adopted as law No. 23/2020 on changes in unemployment insurance law and remuneration laws. The bill, submitted on March 13, 2020, assumed that some 1,000 people would take advantage of the resources and the cost would be over 755 million. K.◯ This is 37 times more, and the cost is no 755 million, but 35 billion, just in this, is 27 billion in the narrative. How could you possibly calculate it so wrong? Or does this tell us that it was all too open, too easy to get into? That's why a lot got into this plan that didn't need it. This is what we need to investigate and study. We're here to learn from the experience from the collapse of the bank. We know that, as it turns out, a lot of companies have taken money from the country to the tax station in Tortula, the Cayman Islands, and unfortunately, as it turned out, it seems difficult to get it back. It also seems to be a bit wrong in these primary tasks because they are not initially given to an important purpose to assume that a employment agency has sufficient staff who have knowledge and can trace it. They need to coordinate the work of the EIC, the IRS, and all of it right away. Not in the fall, not in winter, not after a year, but immediately, to monitor it, to make sure that this system works and that the surveillance is as it should be, and to our credit. The answer is that this bill would be much better if we were to take into account the lesser section and the greater part would learn from the experience, the experience of the previous capital, and listen only and take into account the good tips, the good points we are offering. But from inside, I don't expect that. It'll only be gone the same way. Then it's clear that it's the responsibility of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u151	Mr. President. We're here to discuss an extension of a so-called partial improvement. The two subjects we've been discussing here in the Assembly Hall of the Last Days, i.e. Helps pay on deadlines and then the relief route are issues that are somewhat related. This has been observed, and occurred at the outset when the ministers of the seminaries advised them, that they were cases that were difficult to discuss, difficult to assess at, or an estimate of other influences, regardless of how the other matter would go. What has been discussed is the fact that the cases are referred to each member of the committee, and they are carried out separately. If you look at the discussion that has been started on the subject, there have been many groups in which to suggest that they would be discussed on the same committee, either as a matter or as a matter, as it is now for them to develop and develop as a team, and that they would have a common understanding of the direction they were going. The fact is, the fact is that these issues followed by the last days were somewhat shifting in different directions. Then the question arises: Is it best to serve the interests of the people assigned to serve? I'm not gonna discuss both of them. I'm gonna talk to you about the part-change thing. I'm as an emissary officer on the welfare committee, and I'm a member of the Committee. I'm a member of the Committee. The head of the welfare committee and its spokesman went well with it in his earlier speech. I will not extend the discussion any further by taking the same course. But as a result of increasing clarity, I insist that I take my heart to it as a boy. The head of the health committee, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, discussed the circumstances in which the changes in the memory and other adjustments were proposed. I'd like to start off with a review of a state reexamination report published yesterday. 2nd lower sections respond to this report in their opinion, thought it proper to do so, and in adjustments. It caught my attention to hear the storyteller of the greater part, boy. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir, speaking in his entropy speech, as if the knife would not go between a report made by State Review and that opinion. I simply disagree. It's where I feel like, for example. The term is merely confused with a number of conditions, which are said to be quite thorough in a greater part of the health committee, as well as the concept of monitoring, to which the state accountant will be referred. A government accountant speaks extensively about the fact that while the part-time work route was being done well to ensure remuneration, support employers for contracting and maintaining recruitment relationship, which is exactly what this matter was supposed to do and is intended to do, it has been shown, despite the fact that the government has stressed the support of viable enterprises with which they lost a lot of income, that it seemed as if there were any freedom in the interpretation of the law. In other words, it would not necessarily require rigid conditions and a more tightening of the situation. Rather, it would need to be monitored to carry out what was expected of the law as well as the correctness of the above laws. This will monitor the use of government funds, as it should be done by the Government Accounting and the replacement for the interests of state funds. Then you also wonder what could have been done better in the first language that could have been fixed here. There's a point like what we're trying to show up on second-point less, e.g. the definition of what is a serious business noise and what is a high total loss of income (U.S.). You don't have to go together. Then, in their report, the importance of real - time surveillance is very important, and a work - service agency is being made available for it. And that's another thing we're going to do when we say yes to two smaller things. If we go over the points we can find and, in particular, we kill on the memory of the part - I'm not just going to skate over it, although I'm not going to have many words about it -- then there's information about company that uses support. The bill simply assumes that there are information on that enterprise, but more than six companies are proposed to be restricted to companies with more than six. This is so that it is being conducted, the arrangement that we have today as a labour agency. However, in less part, we suggest that this remains unchanged, that it applies to all companies because we view it as so rich and the information offering is so important that we also don't see the evidence for making that distinction. According to a report published by the Constitution, 85% of the 6,432 companies, I believe, are those who have taken advantage of the route have six or fewer employees. So it's just getting out of the big group. I have to say to my own: I think it's much better that the public list of all these companies, the little companies too. It consists of a firm holding and I would like to relax, just as suggested in the modifications of 2 memory, many of these conflicting conditions given because they are intended to prevent them from getting very well fired, well-being, well-sized enterprises, which certainly have suffered from loss of income, that is one of the conditions, overuseing their resources; preventing them from making use of the resources they do not need. I cannot imagine that many companies with six employees or fewer who suffer enormous losses in income can survive without making use of the resources or attract enormous amounts of money that are not entitled to them, even if there are compromises on income payments for the next three years or buying their own stocks. We know that many of these smaller companies, especially in tourism, the sector we are currently risking to protect and keep alive, are owned by individuals who have staked up to the expense of the economy, established, and established by others. by mortgageing your own home. In the next year, if the company complies with the company plan for Covid, such companies go to cover their assets. It's not a delirium. On the other hand, money is supposed to create a cowardly connection with tax fraud, as I have, though many skated quite close to the debate. It is simply heaven and sea apart. It should be noted that in the past few weeks, months and years, the sector that has possibly put a bad report on interest paid by the European public has not been protected by direct or indirect government support. A much larger discussion will be taken if a person is going to cycle in the company's interest laws. There may be something worth looking at. The 85% of enterprises of 6,432 that have six employees or fewer are one size worth considering when talking about all these rigid conditions which are known to me, and those of us who are in this opinion, are even likely to violate the stated goal of protecting the interests of the employee in the respective companies. The advantage is the combined interest of the enterprises. We considered how people have done things in neighboring lands, and we have to say that, as in other parts of the northern world, there are in effect a system that offered a much faster response. It was basically built into the systems that are already there to react to fluctuations, as we are experiencing today. This is how, as is suggested by the majority, all enterprises that use the part-back pathway have no parallel in other parts of the North countries. Yet, in Denmark I found a statement that if a company accepts more than $60 million in support of the State, they will not be paid or bought in 2021. It is $1.2 billion, so to speak. We know that here we are playing at a considerably smaller market, with less money. As we consider the list of the results of each company's reviews of which employees have received support or support by the part-back method, 27 companies have received more than 30 million. What got the most, and we all know it's Icellands, got less than a billion. The following enterprises, which are powerful and large tourism companies, have 100◯200 million, and then this goes down quickly. Over 30 million targets have gone 27 companies of 6,432. We agree with the objective, not with misuse of the resources. Many companies are now living in the reality of others'going through a lot of money losses, but if the business is strong, it is a very normal estimate that the managers of the European Commission will show the moral strength not to enter this fund because we know exactly what state funds are and will be. We also know that business interests are very important to companies. That's why when the information flowed through which companies these companies were doing this, they reimbursed specific companies. It's part of our system. It is also part of what says it is working, trying to avoid becoming too inaccessible. That there is shame in seeking help because of some undesirable treatment, it cannot be what we are going to pursue. We must be able to protect government funds in a more wholesome way than in flogging off and making it completely inaccessible. We set 50 million targets. Companies who have been given strength or who will receive the strength of that amount will accept it. There aren't many of them. I might have said two, three days ago that they had to grow, but now I'm just not sure that I'm not sure because I can't figure out the effects of the interaction between these two routes, this and helping with the deadline's pay. Maybe they'll just drop down, maybe that means no one's taking it. But at least we're coming in with these ways to try to contribute to the development of small companies with loss of income somewhere in the range of 255/75%, who can accept this government support in order to maintain recruitment relations with their employees. The staff are better off there than they are on notice, and yet they are not shut down that it is desirable, positive, and good to be on a regular business and to be making profits soon. We are also suggesting that an enterprise that would depend on these conditions cannot accept this and, at the same time, pay interest over the next two years, be able to repay without paying 15% of the strain as suggested by the greater part if they are taking the initiative. It is different if a person becomes aware that he has tried to give in to this, and it is perfectly normal for me to lay a load of guilt. These are the ways that I and others feel this way are convinced that there are great benefits. We made quite a deal, so they say, about the pay grade in the law. This case is rewarded, three million. I don't like it. I'm a spokesman for a party that doesn't like it. We think it can inhibit the competitiveness of an enterprise. We don't think it's, just for princely reasons, it's natural that the Council is involved in that. I realize that, in turn, people say, "But is it a pity for a company to be helped by the government? ' It's not, but we know for what reason it was, and then we don't step in any more than we need. I think it may have a worse impact on the long-term competitiveness of an enterprise. It is also in my mind that this should be restricted to rulers. We know, hopefully many, that it is not always the highest - paying rulers, that is just the case. The most important thing in my life is that this particular law is not in the other law, and the adjustment of its nature was made, and I say again that I don't understand the interaction of these cases. I'm just gonna take this opportunity, okay? The chairman of a legislature committee at the gymnasium, even though he is now no member of either committee, to say that I thought it would have been reasonable for me to have been in the process of these two cases. It's just that they seem to have taken a different curve. But there it is. This is important to many, and I can totally understand that, too. These are just different viewpoints and differences in effects, whether they are positive or negative for a longer period of time or are important. I don't think it's what's going to dissipate from this part-time improvement. I am more concerned with the duration of money, by restrictions on buying my own letters, and by the guilt law, which is not only unnecessary 15% on the top of a company that is later, perhaps within the age of two, three, they realize they did not need it and they want to repay it, but they also have a reputation. This is the way I'm supposed to see that a company shrinks from getting close to it, so I'll say it as it is. We want to do a good job, and most of the Generals feel that they are the best interests of state funds. I'm not gonna make any statements about anything else, I think we're all trying to be careful. If this bill is supplied here at the council Hall and goes this way from us and leads a company to take advantage of the resources, let's see that there is a majority of companies who have lost their income by 25% to 75%, with no particular resources left. Worse yet, we leave their employee with the same company a little in the air. That's not the plan. That's why I'd have wanted this to be more thoughtative. There is always more time to ask, but it certainly applies in this particular case. The last minor aluminium and change proposals were not really ready until after the discussion began today, which is not to be followed. But it's like this, it's a date, and we're looking into a month's match. I wish that in the end of the case below, tonight and possibly until night, the adjustments that are presented would be sincerely thought of, but not taken lightly by just reading the headlines. decrease the share of ◯. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u152	A respectable president. We'll discuss extensions of a so-called partial improvement pathway, which I believe was one of the better ways to get through the arteries immediately due to Covid, and has worked very well. It was stated in the treatment of the Commission as to how successful it was in protecting the work, in the opinion of the labour oce and others. I'm not going to have a long talk about it, but I feel that we need to consider some of the main points in this matter. Initially, as I said, it occurred to protect the work, and we encouraged the companies to come with the government to protect jobs. Of course, this also benefited the companies and helped many who were unable to afford their resignations right away and to reduce the company's pay expenses. At the same time, many companies, who may not have had a business problem then but who had an excellent personal budget, faced vast uncertainty. Such an enterprise, had not come about, would have many, if not most, taken to resign people to limit their risks in the past while uncertainty was the most. So good was this way, and the government encouraged companies to participate. Then it was tried to make the most common course so that a decision could be made quickly to determine whether to use it or not and to process it. There has only been a complaint about how long it will take to deal with the workforce and that this has been vague. But it could have been even more complicated if the matter had not been so general. So I'd like to say that I'm not going to rule out that some company has abused this route or was wrong. I'm not going to rule that out. This can be for many reasons and in different ways as to how they were abused. In most cases, I believe that the employee, unions, and the government would have reacted if a government or company was misused or misunderstood. It was usually corrected, and it was not against the law, either. The way was public, and the situation was clarified, and it was adjusted if anyone was abusing it. I don't think they have an enormous number of companies, even though they do exist. But to mention in the long order of all the companies, whether they are large or small, which are well-placed and may have many different business modules within each company, going to criticize them and put them on any black list and so walk so that their reputation, I believe it was not entirely right to make it out of what I said before, that otherwise this well-being would have this company at first, with a very strong uncertainty before itself, made up for his partner and told people. However, because of this process, the employment relationship was extended and the enterprises committed to keeping the employment relationship in force longer. It benefited the worker's non-employment fund, and it benefited him. I think it's extremely important, and we need to keep it in mind when discussing whether or not this has been abused. That includes a few terms. Was this for a business problem at the same time the government said they were saving viable companies? I feel that there's something we need to separate, and then we need to understand between whether we were dealing with a business drop or a business problem there. That's the problem either way. Even when it is not necessarily a business problem, a business may suffer a major loss. I don't think this is clear enough in a State Review Report, i.e. The difference between this, and therefore, I haven't quite got to the point where people are talking about the fact that a successful business has been abusing the way, the way they were abusing her, or the exact thing that was broken, because we're putting a different understanding into this. In this way, the employee is primarily being supported, the employee gets the money, not the companies. The company may not get a cent to themselves, but as I said earlier, some companies benefited because their pay was lower. The other might have been making use of one's own money, letting people up, reducing the risk further into the future. This is what we need to keep in mind, and I wanted to go over it here in the first place. The next thing I'd like to discuss is that there's a lot of talk here today about this bill and how it is designed to push people or companies into the process of reporting. I think it's that a very small part, no matter what you feel about all these conditions, misunderstandings and other things and the difference between them, because it's just that to get into the part-time process, the contracture doesn't have to be but 25%, so it's a bit easier to come in than the commitment to pay, after 1st July, 50% of the salary as an enterprise. So all the companies with less revenue than 75% have the potential to enter the part-time work route instead of the reporting process. They have no choice. If companies have less than 75% of revenues, they don't have a choice of the information route, so you can't say that something in this bill is pushing them into the other direction because they don't have a chance to do it. Then there's the other. If a company with 75% of revenues or more, I don't think there's any choice of going into part-time because they don't have any money to pay 50%. As a result, the gap between them has been greatly reduced. I think it means a lot to me. Just at the end of the day, I'm gonna go over the conditions a little bit. I agree that the important thing was to put the wood layers. If someone was indeed abusing it or violating the law, there should be wood laws. I agree with the government that it is important to have active surveillance so that those who are taking advantage of this will know that there is some kind of surveillance going on and that there are laws. There's something important. But it's time for the conditions. Qualifications are different from the penalties, and I am one of those who feels the need to handle the conditions with caution. I have been surprised to learn that labor movements and advocates have given high priority to the fact that these conditions are involved. So, with the changes in the majority of the items that I think the smaller part will agree on, in part, to try to reduce the conditions but still meet halfway with those involved, because these issues have been taken in considerable agreement with the labour market parties, both the employees and the employers, and this is some of the result. But I say it right here that I expect these conditions and these discussions to be put on a black list and another because they have a community to share in protecting their jobs, to be able to play in that way fewer people will be able to use them on a different level. So the company will watch this. Am I to accept these conditions? Or should I make some other decision, which is not necessarily for my resignation? ' I don't think most of them have any chance of entering it. This needs to be discussed. But this was such a certain compromise, and it has been reduced to a little less than what I think is closer to the goal of the bill. It has also been discussed with us only a matter of personal activity. It was made clear to the board that they are at the same level as the amount of non-employment funds and those who are taking part - time benefits. Those who are independent of their social security number have the same amount. There is only another process, and it is being used in the general system that is designed to reduce the complex level, increase the payback rate, and so on. It's just that everyone inside this system needs to be active in job search, as an example, and it can be very unusual for a number of different classes. But I think there's a lot of stuff here that we're supposed to try to change as little as possible in order to keep the system clear and reduce the complexity level to the best of our ability. Finally, I'm just going to remind you that it's the employee who gets the money, not the companies. Therefore, it is a bit difficult to talk about a few reimbursements or that companies should repay these and other items because there is a difference between these ways, the company needs to make money that reduces tax gains, as in the cumulative losses or so on. They need to take advantage of it and meet certain conditions while they are being paid over some time, but it's not in this because it's the employee who gets the money. The reason companies have offered to repay is natural to try to save their reputation after getting a black list for having participated in the government's protection of jobs. I hope I have had some of this explained. I'm not going to keep this for a while, and I'd like to make sure that this has been a good way, and more options have been added. Times change and develop, and hopefully we get along well in working out the present situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u153	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. All I want to do is talk to him about the motivation that the government has decided to put into the system for business, about going to excerpts rather than to take part - time witnessing, which is obvious. A number of companies in a particular industry in Iceland have suffered almost a 100% loss of income, as we have already made. I would like to read a text message I received from the discussion earlier when we were busy. That's exactly what a senator was discussing. I'll read them up here, with President's permission: A small thing about the company I work for, which I suspect is rather typical. It is a large trade that is primarily for tourists. She placed almost all her workers on the part - help route as soon as she was opened up and left only a few employees that month, even though the income had already been washed down to almost nothing. The day following the introduction of the narrative, all the employees of the company were immediately dismissed. This is real life, and we're getting reports of it every day. I now find it very irresponsible to pretend that there is a choice for a company that is scurrying and hopes to achieve its success in the months ahead, whether or not it will continue to use its staff in a 25% labour rate, or 100% employment rate for the next three months' pay in the state's budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u154	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and for the opportunity to discuss the matter. This is a very good example of how changing circumstances may lead to other options. When the shock comes, the companies don't know what they're waiting for, how long the revenue will last, and so on. This large store may have had a good start on its own, and if it hadn't been a part of it, she would have told a lot more employees. This is a fine example of how well the part - help process works to save and prolong their jobs, otherwise the person would have been quit and now, three months later, he would have been on unemployment. But because of the partial improvement process, this was extended. I don't know what kind of store this is, she may be getting some money right now, but they don't know if it's gonna happen, either a shock comes in the fall, another wave, or when the income comes, but my own money's gone down. So they no longer have their own money to pay these employees 50% in the balance, 50% of the pay they pay, and thus companies are being saved from bankruptcy through the reporting process. So they had no other choice. It has nothing exactly to do with the difference between the route or their condition, nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u155	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I feel sad to hear it. A senator puts all his emphasis on the companies, and I find it with other members of the board, but not with the hired man. When we started this expedition, our main goal was to maintain an employment relationship between the employee and the employer. I'm sorry that the government and the majority of the members of the council have not been able to improve the part-change process for the benefit of employees but rather to try to save companies and help them break up people's lives. And I find it very strange that certain unions are somehow promoting it. But it has to. Something else I have to ask you. In fact, a senator is surprised at the ideas of repaying the support and how the companies are now going to do it. Then I'll have to point it out. A senator is required that, on the bill he supports here and the rest of the section, discuss how the companies are to be reimbursed with pressures to the labour agency, if they did not meet conditions or any other things. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So the idea of reimbursement has come, not from the smaller parts, but from the bill itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u156	A respectable president. It is totally wrong that we are focusing on business rather than on remuneration. In the beginning, it was the part-time improvement that extended the recruitment relationship and by offering a scholarship at notice, companies can maintain pay and return from 90% to 100% wage. Hopefully, this can lead to the reinstatement of an enterprise. That's what the game's made for. If that were not the case, a number of additional companies would have gone into bankruptcy, the hired man would have lost his job, and would have had to wait for a long time to get paid and all of that. So it just doesn't make sense to say things like that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u157	V.E.G. President. We will discuss the extension of a part - improvement process, and I listened attentively to a talk. Senator. The main objective is to protect employment and protect jobs. I agree with what. The senator's success was successful, and I think he was. A welfare committee has done well. Everyone was in complete uncertainty. That is, in fact, the main outcome of a report by a state accountant. This strategy was not indiscriminate, and we should look at it, and it is probably some condition now that we know more about it. But I have to say, before I ask questions. A senator, because I believe he's the one we're discussing here, that these conditions are going too far. Let's just say right now; the conditions really go against the main objectives of the bill. That's just the way it is. Supporting employees with such support, employees who may be able to maintain a job in companies with a loss of income in the range of 255/75% - it really does on a business basis - means that the employment relationship is in an upset state. There's one thing I didn't agree with. A senator in his speech. These options, your resignation salary, are indiscriminate. What is reality? You see, the reality is that if you look at these conditions, you're probably forced to resign. Period.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u158	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this good answer. I can agree with him on the conditions. In my speech, I came to see that conditions go too far. We discussed it and went over it at the moment. The welfare committee. We got reviews on both sides. Those conditions were deeply stressed by the employees of the employee and even strengthened them, while representatives of the workplace stressed the need for a shortening of the time so that they could cover the employee's salary, in order to protect the employees' jobs. If I had been allowed to write this case in the first place, those conditions would not have been set. I can say that. But I'm going to agree with this conclusion because of the total and cooperation we've had through the Covid situation we've been dealing with. Then it became the landing I'm going to agree with, even though I had chosen that conditions were different. I can, in part, say the last words of what? A senator is about the conditions we put here will push people into resignation. But what I've been pointing out is that it's not being promoted in the narrative because they can't get into it. But I can agree that there are other companies who make only the decision that they would otherwise have made in the beginning of the Covid situation, to resign, without taking advantage of government resignation. That's the kind of thing that's going to happen. I can agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u159	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's answer, I didn't expect anything else. In this much uncertainty, this way was done by a company, with no conditions and incentive to look for this way, in a much more difficult uncertainty, certainly with a strong balance account, but it also goes quickly for some when there is a loss of income. This is how business works, and when companies also face the need to strengthen their economy by all means, the message is important. What's the message? The company has support, but you don't move for three years to save the company. There's the wrong message for the job. It's the wrong message for me to know. To be honest, I'm amazed at this conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u160	A respectable president. I can agree that there are a number of conditions. The companies were encouraged to participate. I admit that many of them had the same support, which helped them reduce their pay expenses. But on the basis of it, we are trying to protect our salary. This can send the wrong message, and it can have a bad effect, such as the rest of it. A senator came in, and that's why, we took that up on a welfare committee. And I want to make a difference. A senator saying it's not three years anymore but, um... A year and a half. The length of the conditions has been shortened. Then we can discuss whether it had more to do with or not. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u161	Mr. President. That's interesting and good discussion. Hv. In his talk, a senator made it clear that the source on either side of the table had been taken into account by the manager, both the employee and the professional driver. Then I'd like to refresh my spirits. A senator; it is true that ASI welcomed the bill and had greater circumstances. Business organizations simply said: "We were not spoken. It is being punished by the majority of the paymen for miseries of a few, and the League of college said, "I read for a word," by permission of the President: ▪ Finally, the BHM government's claim to have only consulted Iceland's Common Association with the product of the bill, but not another total employee organisation. So it is wrong for a wide range of consultations to make the detailed conditions. Now that it's up to you, I'd like to ask you why. A senator, especially in the light of his words when dealing with the disorder. Chairman of the budget board: see what. A senator will review this and accept a proposal of 2 less than that the rigid conditions will be fixed at the maximum budget of the assistance that the enterprise receives in behalf of its employee? That. that the majority of these little enterprises, which I retry to do more than 90%, by 95%, if we make the 30 to 50 million. K. - We had 50 million tickets. K. in the modifications of 2. smaller items, it can be moved that number back and forth - but just to make sure that these are the companies that play with considerable resources, the smaller companies that pay e.g. interest, for the sole purpose of living up to commitments so that they can conduct business ventures, so that they can have people working, so that they can maintain an Icelandic working life based on SMEs. Is there a chance. A senator looks positively at such changes? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u162	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. You can also see the difference between the two of us. In the review of Business Association that they have been given suggestions and other factors, although this may not have been the final conclusion, they were allowed to say their own opinion and came to it and so on. Perhaps not everyone was contacted, but at least some conversation has been made. However, regarding further changes, the situation has been discussed today. I've been watching all the changes, and I've looked at them all. When it all works out, i.e. I'm going to follow a compromise between stakeholders, of course, I'm going to look at all the adjustments with an open mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u163	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. I want to turn my song into a cross and go straight to another. In the case of a senator, both in his speech and in his reply earlier today, there was something that I could not understand except that he was critical of what is stated in the modification proposals of a 2 - smaller section on reimbursement, where a smaller section speaks of reimbursement being done without pressure. Hv. A senator put it as if it were not for reimbursement, because it was for earners. Now this term, reimbursement, is in the bill. The reefs are not preceded by 2 less parts. It simply weakens the wording by reducing the pressure if an enterprise takes the initiative to repay. But the reimbursement is on the bill, and the suggestions for more part are on the reimbursement. Well, maybe. A senator explained to me who misunderstands what is in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u164	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for asking this question so that I can explain my case. What I'm talking about is kind of a legal thing. What's in the bill is part of the deal. If an enterprise has taken advantage of the resources without having the right or the right to do so, they will have to pay at least 15% of the cost of employment insurance because they were not entitled to do so. Because of the way the uncertainty was, it was considered proper to lower the load of pressures. Most of these penalties are under 50% of the pressure, but it was decided to make it 15% on this case. But what I'm talking about, is that the companies can pay it back before it's due to a penance or because they haven't used it correctly. There's a big difference, so the companies haven't got anything. That's why it's so hard to pay back. But here we are talking about the cost of repairing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u165	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion. I've been sitting here since when. Four today and listen to my colleagues on a welfare committee review this matter that we have been discussing for a very long time. The initial partial improvement process is very important, and it is now being improved. It is certain that we will not find out the only truth in this law, rather than in the previous laws we have set. I feel that there are many people cheating and that this way is too much to do. I remind you that 6,400 companies have made good use of the part-change process, and there are a few who have been accused of not having a discussion with it. For the most part, it's been successful. I'm much more worried about how professional life comes out of the misery we're going through. In such a situation where our feet are almost pulled away from us, our jobs and homes, we should not take up the position of inciting our jobs or the vice versa. They'll never be able to do without each other. We need to work at making peace with others about the actions we already stand for. The major part is making up for the activities presented here, and we are trying to reconcile with the smaller parts of the procedure. Of course not in all cases, but everyone is doing their best. There are days ahead that we regularly predict what will happen to us, what future jobs will be, and what conditions will be when this route runs its course at the end of the August of the month. There have been 2.5 million passengers here every year, but we now see figures that are a long way from now on. Then there is a higher supply of services and entertainment, hotel rooms, and flights that will give in to anything. So it is extremely important for us to try to get along with these issues as far as possible. It is often said that there is a mistake, and I have heard it here today that there is even no response to a report made yesterday's State Review. By then this bill had been building for weeks, to the end of days. I think it's a call that there are always reactions and that no one is making a mistake, while we're still sailing and still throwing out lifeboats to keep the country going. I feel that this discussion has reached a point in my life. I have nothing to add to the words my friends have said here today. It has been spoken with great knowledge and experience, and I have had a word with these good people for many days. I'm going to use this opportunity to thank the employees of the Labour Organization, the Council and the Parliament for making it possible for us to run all these matters through. A financial agency is accepting 50,000 people on the payroll in a few days, and it is an achievement that is so devastating. We need to appreciate and appreciate that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u166	V.E.G. President. It has been very interesting to observe all the discussions that have taken place here today on this large matter that we are continuing with and which is a legacy of the previous part-change process. I'd like to start by talking about the first part-page because when we had the matter on a welfare committee, it didn't take very long to get to a good deal of agreement that we could discuss ourselves with some kind of satisfactory conclusion. It wasn't much that came between you and me, I'd like to say. One of the things that I thought we all had in mind was that we'd think about the one who'd call self-employed. It now turns out that it was not, and those who are considered to be independent and dictators have indeed been allowed to wait for their release and may not have the right to take advantage of the part - improvement process. That's even. That's why I decided to have a minority party that we're offering here, mostly a smaller part of the welfare committee, which includes those who are independent of themselves. I especially want to mention a cabby in this regard because, in my mind, they have certainly been in the forward service. Since I live in Akureyri, they have become involved, often under difficult circumstances, in transporting people, and transporting goods, and in a way that is absolutely necessary. I am very much concerned that our minor opinion applies especially to those who are independent and even to other so - called dictators. I just want to go back to the way we were able to get together on the first part-change. We didn't see what came up later, i.e. that companies might not take advantage of the way in which they are to do so. Still, they went to the law of the company, but we can ask ourselves, " Is it decent for them to take advantage of the part-change process? ' Most of them, if not all of these companies, have reimbursed or in some way improved their efforts, and I want to first commend them for it. At the same time, I would like to agree with the concern that Our Government's Accounting had of our payment when we reached this conclusion because we didn't see that this situation could have soared. But that's enough. I named a government accountant, and we received a very good report from him, and he gave us practical suggestions, even very thought - provoking observations. After reading the first reading, you may not often read such material that you leave behind. But that was the case, and it really helped us, and especially I would like to say that it helped us in the lesser part to shape our thinking. As I read the majority opinion, I could not see that they felt as easy to read as a government accountant said. The head of the Management Board decided on her own initiative to conduct a checkup and found that the Labour Organization had already planned to start an investigation of these provisions. But the conclusion had been that a financial agency wanted to investigate in the autumn how it had been accomplished. Now I really don't want to be accused of the work force because I think they really did work there, as we have seen today. Perhaps I'd rather argue that the Department of Social Affairs, which holds all of this, should have stuck and made sure that the labour agency was able to do so along with the disaster that the staff faced. We've enjoyed it from a work agency, and I'd also like to mention Peritoneal protection, that both parties and even the tax came to a social committee with no notice and answered many of the questions we had at the moment, which were not even fully developed, so we could further include everything we wanted to say. I'm not going to extend this much. I'm sure I'm worried about how I'm gonna make it this time. But the reason I decided to support minorities is especially because I feel that the memory part really has gone down and taken responsibility, I want to use that word. But I'm on my own for second paragraph c-in part 1. g., about low taxes, and that's not because I'm against the resources that are discussed there, but I think it's a challenge to define all the terms in this field that I can't decide, in the short time we're given, the best way to manage it. At the same time, I would also like to say that the change in the development of more parts on this same article is not at all satisfactory either. This may be reflected in our not having the time we would like to do our best to do what we think. Of course, I'm happy with the change in my share's proposal that's about a private job, and especially with a cab driver, as I've talked about before, and I think it's very important that we get it through here at the council and it's going to be approved. I thank everyone on the welfare board for this work, and I really hope that we make a good decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u167	Mr. President. I think it may be safe to say that the part - time work that we are discussing here, which is intended to extend this bill, has proved to be a good and difficult time for many companies, so to speak, when uncertainty was about complete because of the pandemic, and followed with a lot of shame and effect on the whole community. The purpose of this process is to save jobs and to soften the financial impact of an enterprise, especially their employees, in this most economic recession we have seen for about 100 years. This way to prevent unemployment and the important link between employers and employees, to maintain the recruitment relationship. By the mid - March period, when the measures were taken, the virus fought the most against the government and had to work rapidly, and bills were driven through the council. We in the Central Party have supported the ways and actions of the government because it is very important that we stick together to minimize the damage we've been experiencing because of the virus epidemic. We in the media have produced suggestions and ideas in matters that have, unfortunately, not been listened to. I am tired of referring to it here because governments have requested cooperation and ideas, but since then, it has been a public work on the part of the government. But we in the Central Party have supported this operation and will do it because this is the course that is wise to take in the situations we have been facing. The part-change method was adopted so that the right to use it was not clear enough, and a number of companies took advantage of that support. It can be said that it was too much in the hands of corporate managers to determine whether or not they were entitled to support. Of course, in these, the social responsibility of the enterprises is high and broad during the time of viral epidemic, as well as in the environment. But it is clear that some companies accepted this help without needing it and then paid it back. They are in a much smaller part, as we have seen and presented in the public and media speech of Ásmundur Friðriksson. In a greater proportion of cases, jobs were saved, and thus ran the grounds for the homes. Of course, it is easy to point out what might have been done better. The lesson that we learn from this is that governments would have had to provide more and more detailed guidance on the purpose and purpose of this arrangement. Governments, and especially the public, have expressed disapproval of the misuse of this resources by some companies, but such companies were in much less. You're right to keep it up. Of course, these same companies took a very high risk of reputation, and we know that no professional person wants to keep it to himself that people don't want to shop at the person, of course, is a serious risk. But we must not forget that despite negative discussions over the past few weeks in this regard, there have been a new population in pay. However, the criteria involved in the bill in the summer will make it easier for employers to decide to disappear from these measures and to seek other ways to reduce the cost of pay. But you ask yourself, " Who's to blame when an enterprise takes advantage of the resources it could avoid? ' Is it not the lawgiver who did not speak clearly enough about who really had the right to do so? Then there was no natural surveillance. It has been observed that the staff of the employment agency was under great stress and that it was understandably difficult for the excellent people who have been successful, who were on the verge of paying out compensation but had to be on top of the surveillance process. Here, naturally, the authority of the Agency, the Ministry itself, is to blame for not ensuring that the employment agency could perform this operation. It was known to have to be monitored, a lot of money at stake, etc. and perfectly normal to have. I remind you that in Sweden, 100 experts are monitoring the part-changing process in that country, so I would say that the Ministry has not been able to make a labour agency available to monitor here as necessary. Let us hope that the companies who took advantage of this resources could survive without it will learn from the case and shoulder that responsibility. There are undoubtedly cases where workers could have been kept in the unchanged working ratio, even though the projects were few. However, this bill is extended and at the same time narrow, reaching only 50% of the employment ratio from July 1 onwards. More conditions are added, as if a company had a blowout of 25%. It's wise to make use of the companies who truly find themselves in trouble because of the epidemic. Mr. President. I'd like to make money next, and next I'd like to do the bill is pay money. On the contrary, as some would say, business is not a bad thing. Remuneration refers to the payment of a business to its owners. A company can pay only on profit during a period of time. Public talk about profits and profits often favors profits and money from the bad and reduces the interests of the people and even the community. That's a big misunderstanding. If the company doesn't bring back the profits, the business is a failure, and people lose their jobs, and everyone eventually loses. Thus, profits and income are good for society and for the preprogramming of professional drivers. Many companies are now looking for new investors. This may be difficult if, as the bill says, money cannot be paid for for the next three years. But there is hope that it will be changed before the bill becomes the law. It should also be kept in mind that the managers are under partner law forbidd to restrict the right shareholders'meeting to determine interest. Even if a government doesn't suggest a cash payment find, shareholders have total shareholders at least one tenth of the stocks, according to 2 mg, a requirement for a specific gain. 101st par. partner-shaped. Some employment drivers' organisations submitted a common bill to the bill, stating that this important legal body of shareholders is being hampered if interest will be determined only by related damage to the Society, i.e. to repay the employee's compensations under pressure, as is suggested in the bill. I think the main thing is to review this over the three years and shorten that time. I think it's unsatisfactory, as suggested, and I understand that there's a change in the motion. I hope so. In view of this, a review of this arrangement, the shortening of the period, and the right to limit payment, is required by the Community. When the most short - term effect and uncertainty is reduced in terms of the viral epidemic, governments must immediately focus on looking for ways to produce new jobs in general to ensure effective resistance. The contribution process is not necessarily the most successful way to do so, so we must not forget it. We have to keep in mind that she is an emergency strategy for a company that has suffered a major loss of income. On the other hand, the stimulation of future investments may be; tax changes, changes in order, and so forth, may reach good goals, and especially the reduction in insurance, which we in the media have specifically talked about, and have been tireless to mention. transferred proposals for removal until New Year's and then reduced thereafter. Sadly, however, our proposal was made by members of the Middle Class, who have been calling out for various suggestions. More people who are familiar with these aspects in the business area have mentioned the importance of lowering the insurance bill. Mr. President. I'd like to end up with a report of the Government Review on the need to monitor the payment of repairs, only at the beginning of my speech. Hv. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, I think, here in the discussion, said the story came to judge this process. Let us hope that this will be a positive one in the future. But I think it's perfectly clear that the surveillance has already been lacking and that it really wasn't anything. This points to a state retrospective in a more careful report, the initiative report presented yesterday. Is it very enjoyable that the Agency has put work on it and taken it in such a short time because it is an important input into this discussion. As the report shows, despite the government's emphasis on the part - time process, support for viable companies who lost a lot of income, it seems that any form of freedom had been made in the interpretation of the law. It will be seen, according to a report by the State Reconnaissance, the legislation and the law itself, that reforms were paid to enterprises and public agencies which were not really legal. Of course, it's a concern, and you ask yourself: " Were these laws not sufficiently sound or were they not clear enough? Apparently, there's a pot broken in this law-work. In addition, one would think that the Ministry of Social Affairs should have guided its organization, the Labour Department, in these activities in the tremendous pressures that have been put on the well - being of the Agency's staff. According to the law, a labour agency works under the law and provides improvements accordingly. If there were any doubt about the interpretation of the law, the Ministry should have helped on that subject. No evidence has been made, and it would be correct for the Minister of Social Affairs to review this case, following the decision of the State Reconclusion, in which it is stated that there is paying money from a government fund that is not really legal. It's, for example. no such thing is expected and there is no evidence that rural and government agencies have been authorized to use this resources, and neither companies or companies that have a strong management and economic trust. I'm saying this because I think it's necessary to review it further. But these things have been drawn up on the new bill, but we have to discuss this because there are a lot of money at stake here. At the end, I want to point to some interesting comment given by the National Review Study in the report on the retrospective changes to the local standards of public pay. The report says: In agreement with the government tax manager's office, about 160 paypayers have requested an increase in previous reported salary in January and February. The total increase in pay for this two-month period is over 114 million. K. There are both higher and more relevant increases in the number of cases reported during the usual year. Government reviews feel that the reasons for the promotions need to be reviewed. This was discussed only at a meeting of the budgetary committee with a National Review Committee. I asked a state accountant specifically about this point and it seems that there are simply more people who previously reported pay, pay money in January and February, to ensure higher pay from the unemployment system. This is a natural misuse of the improving system and, of course, must be followed closely. Then, in view of this great stress, it is very important that the labour agency is committed to the quality and the experts needed to ensure effective monitoring of the management of the measures immediately, as mentioned in the report. To me, this is a very careful and effective report that will be available at just the right time for this discussion. I know that Government Accounting and good staff there worked hard to get it done in time. Thanks to that. Besides, I want to take this opportunity, like a dog. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson correctly mentioned, and thanking the employees of the employment agency for the great and unselfish work it has done today, the staff has worked between the dark and the handling of these payments to those entitled to them. It tells us that we have qualified and good staff in these institutions. But I also remind you that the Ministry is responsible for helping in these matters. It cannot be expected that all employees of the employment agency can go into the stitches of those who received this payment and who were not entitled to it under these circumstances, under this great pressure. It makes me feel that the Ministry has failed, that they have not helped to determine matters of opinion. Of course, the Ministry should. As we've discussed here, there's a lot of money in the game, and it's a common fund for all of us Americans to associate with with with with with with with with with with with with with with with honor. But in other respects, I thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u168	So far with the 9th session, overdose has passed since the distribution of the requested changes. 1567, distributed earlier. So we need to seek approval from making the adjustment. The variants will be viewed without vote if they do not speak out. Nobody says anything, and it's approved. The proposal, then, is to appear before the meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u169	I'm here to recommend a fashion adjustment on the deck. 1567 with a fashion adjustment on the deck. 1546, at the bill to correct the alteration of unemployment insurance laws and the remuneration Act, prolonging the improvement process. Transporters with me have a problem. Councilmen Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdóttir, Vilmur Árnason, and Ásmundur Friðriksson. The suggestion is that dates are being harmonized with the criteria presented in the corresponding bill. First, by permission of the President: ▪ Instead of the words ◯1. January 1, 2022; and not to take into account stockholders by interest, decrease in money, or purchase of their own profits, which will begin on January 1, 2020, or later, until first, after January 1, 2023, 3rd. Number 3. Section 4. Number 2. May 31st, 2022. Second: ▪ Instead of the words ◯1. January 2, 1923, of the second issue. Section 9. Number 2. May 31st, 2022. This adjustment proposal for previous modifications aims to synchronize these dates. There were other dates regarding the conditions set for a company to take part-back. It was normal for them to be normal, but these dates would not be cut apart and have different dates. This could cause confusion and no reason except to reconcile them. I'll finish my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u170	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and the chairman of the case before a presentation of new developments made more adjustments that merely simplify dates but nothing else. I'd like to present to you on behalf of the conclusion of the European Union of Iceland, which was granted to all members of the council today, by permission of the president: ▪ Finally, the UN makes a serious observation that companies are placed under different conditions depending on whether they use the part-back route or help to pay off the notice. In this way the lawgiver is creating a direct impulse to resign rather than to use the part-improved method, which is still much more desirable for remuneration, while it is confined to a recruitment relationship. There is an opportunity to stop this accident. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether it is a reason for the greater part to see if ASI has anything to do with the discrepancies of the conditions in the two primarys we're postponing here tonight, which are a trigger to confidentiality instead of maintaining employment relations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u171	Mr. President. The two primary radios we've been dealing with here today, on the support of the reporting deadline and on this subsidies, are largely similar issues, with respect to the availability of enterprises on either side. A company has to have a 75% pay drop in order to request support for the pay on notice, but if a company or a remuneration company wishes to take part-time benefits, it is sufficient for a company to have a 25% income drop. It's a big difference. It is also so that when a company conducts the deadline support, the companies themselves get paid in return for the notice they receive. The company is getting it to them, the support. In the bill we're considering, the part-change process, the support will be in the payman's pocket. I think it's very difficult to tell about at this moment what company do, whether this will encourage them to go to lay-offs. I don't think this should be to contribute to exposé unless the companies are in either place that they can't see a thing ahead of them but to have to resign their own people. But companies with a 25% income drop can't get support from the government on the other way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u172	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, but he wants to read a text message I received this second time here by permission of a president: An example of the company I work for, which I suspect is rather typical. It is an established business that sells products that are mainly addressed to tourists. The company placed almost all its employees on the part-change route as soon as it was opened to her and left only a few employees on that month, even though they had already made money to almost nothing. The day after the announcement was announced, all the employees of the company had their jobs dismissed. This is real life, huh? Senator. This is the real reality because almost every company in Iceland's tourism services has almost 100% of revenues these days. Every company that has culture and art in Iceland. The companies responsible for all the technical services around culture and art, and events and the annual events and the like have an income loss of almost 100%. The number of companies making advertisements, creating themes for conferences, creating what presentations, market companies, and I can continue for a long time, has an almost 100% loss of income. However, these companies will now try this summer to stay alive because they hope that something will start, especially in the tourism business. It will now be very good to be able to fill your staff at a deadline rather than to put up with the reduced amount of work offered in the part-time improvement process. I'd like to have a reaction. A senator on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u173	Mr. President. Hv. A senator describes the situation as having a 100% income drop in the largest part of the enterprise. It appears, then, that these companies are looking at entering a way that is government backing on notice. They can then use active force to the full as they cannot in the part-change process. The employees get full pay on notice. By bringing this support, with the bill that is now in the Economic and Business Committee, the companies that otherwise might be at risk of bankruptcy, have the same consequences, i.e. may not be able to pay a full notice to the person, to the interview period, and to give full pay. A company would have a chance to move forward, and they would have the chance of asking themselves off the bottom with full - time people for the next three months and with the possibility of a future. That's how I see it. That is why these were divided into the two ways that we had gone through the most difficult chapter at the outset and then the next phase in the real world as companies and employees are facing right now. But as I have mentioned before, much is going to happen, and 15,000 have been enrolled in the part-change process. I believe that much of those people are better off on employment or are entitled to unemployment, which, unfortunately, is also the reality for many.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u174	A respectable president. The bill is pulling down the part - improvement pathway, as some members of the administrative body have put it. There is an additional requirement for remuneration, i.e. The share they need to work is being increased in order to have access to the partial improvements. At the same time, the conditions of the companies that make use of their tax resources are not being narrowed down to take advantage of their resources. This, along with the fact that companies are being made easier to reveal to their employees, I feel completely irresponsible, and I'm not gonna take responsibility for it. As a result, I am embarrassed by the release of the bill, the exception of a good change proposal from that point of view. paritaprevir "Odddju G. Oddný Harðardóttir to take for granted that companies who use tax companies can take advantage of the part-change process, which I think will improve.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u175	Mr. President. By means of the bill and the changes made to a greater part of the welfare committee, we are further strengthening the options and meeting indications that have been presented in a report by the National Reconnaissance to continue to increase monitoring and clear conditions. We're also syncing dates on the conditions and their duration. I think we're setting out a good way of helping both employees and businesses through the recent economic catastrophes, and I believe that it's a step in getting companies back in business and helping employees keep their work and bridges in a certain gap that lies ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u176	V.E.G. President. We in the Central Party are going to sit next to the bill. Our warnings have not been listened sufficiently to, and they have not taken enough into account a black report by a State accountant. It is also serious that a body of Congress is in the position that the matter is paid off after the closing of a bank on the last day of the month, on the day of the public market, most of the companies were to pay off pay. There are a lot of good things to do, but the uncut habit is that the middle class will sit by the money provided, except for the suggestions that come from the least part of it. There have been many good cases here from the government. They're good for improvement, but it needs to be done better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u177	President. The combination of the measures we are paying votes for now and the narrative bill exposes the ultimate irresponsibility of the government in terms of the interests of the remuneration. To the Piranians, the government could fit in with its work, that the present situation is arrived by a complete approach, a clear view of the future, and in good consultation with all those involved. But that has not been the case, and the conclusion is stained by it. Piratar and I have proposed a different approach, another vision and solutions that we have considered in the committees on this matter and in the narrative. We will be embarrassed by the payment of this case, except for the one change form of the second small part, which is involved in ensuring that companies in the tax industry are not being helped by the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u178	Mr. President. We in the United States can't vote with the bill because of the way it's done. I'd like to quote what we wrote here in the National Association of Iceland to all members of Congress this morning. The relationship makes a serious comment, with president's permission: ... that companies will be placed under different conditions depending on whether they are using a part-back route or helping to pay their dues on notice. In this way the lawgiver is creating a direct impulse to quit people rather than to use the part-back process, which is still much more desirable for the pay people, while it is maintained by a recruitment union. There is an opportunity to stop this accident. It was an opportunity to prevent this accident. The requirements set out in the bill by the government and the government are that it does not change whether it is a giant company that pays billions for profit or a small family company that is nearly run into its own social security number. Same conditions apply to everyone. This cannot be agreed with because it will cause great damage to SMEs and pay recipients in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u179	Mr. President. The contribution subsidence pathway has been designed to help companies maintain recruitment relations with employees and thus in favour of the employee's interests. It is our assessment in return that the conditions set up in this extension which react to the very few cases where companies have taken advantage of the scope set by previous legislation, go too far, and go against the interests of those who have taken advantage of the way and are likely to want to remain unattainable. I would like to suggest that in a State Reexamination report, 6,432 companies have used their resources to date, 85% of them with six or fewer employees. It also states that the number of companies who accept power over 30 million is 27. The ant is being shot out of a hell of a gun to hunt the ant. [[The president calls.]] We're sitting by this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u180	V.E.G. President. The partial improvement route was successful at the first hour. This is really what the state accountant's report confirms, but not indiscriminately, it should be acknowledged. The criteria set in the bill go to my wits too far. They violate the primary objective of protecting recruitment, defending jobs, to give the messages to those who may be able to strengthen the economy of enterprises to do so. They're too negative, they go too far. I'd like to say, though, that the adjustment proposal for the adjustment of the majority of the items that is now being made is an improvement. She sends a more positive message. So I will support the adjustment proposal. I will, however, sit by when we vote on the terms, while supporting the whole case in hopes that the job will continue to be protected. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u181	A respectable president. This is a suggestion that helps to distinguish between a huge business that is supported by millions or even billions or small companies who receive less support. This target is being established in many European countries as to the conditions for an enterprise and I expect the majority of us to be supported by it because it is important for the nation's industry, for the people of the country, that we here in the Senate don't start slaughtering small and medium-sized companies. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u182	Mr. President. Briefly: This suggestion is about companies in the tax industry. This is necessary, and all who came to the committee, experts, government tax manager, tax investigator, said that the regulations in the bill, and now the changes in the more part, would not be sufficient to protect our common funds for those who do not participate in our common fund. Here's an opportunity, a Senate world, to protect our common fund from those who do not share in our building. I'll give you a chance, please, everyone on green.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u183	Mr. President. This is a provision for an enterprise with a conscience, a company with community responsibility, to come on their own initiative and pay the support if well-earned. Let us hope that businesses will be successful after receiving support, and they can come back and offer that support without paying stress. We're making an incentive for a company to pay this back. If they take their own initiative, we don't put the pressure on 15%. I encourage senators to support this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u184	Mr. President. We vote for a 2nd-compliant change form from the 2nd-minimum health committee. There is a suggestion for a change that can be considered in the best interests of an independently operater, such as a cab driver, who has made great use of the government's resources. The middle class supports these changes in the process of making it easier for dictators to get unemployment improvements. Under the present system, they will be made available for their job search, as silly as it sounds in today's society and their work. They have submitted their work permit and are, in effect, waiting for the situation to improve as far as their employment is concerned. They solve their work permit and go to work when things get better. So far, they have been asked to work for these benefits. This is a very reasonable matter for independent dictators. That situation needs to be corrected. I'll say yes to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u185	Mr. President. This is exactly the problem. We want conditions. We'd like to try to ensure that companies who don't need to seek out an option do not seek out the conditions, but we don't want them to do so that they directly encourage companies to give up their employees. There are signs today and yesterday and we'll be hearing about it all weekend and probably after the weekend that a company has taken its employees off the stockway and has resigned. This is exactly why. The requirements are the same for all companies. We're sitting next to each other.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-29-110.u186	Mr. President. The decision has been made on the greater part of the decision to take contrary to the advice of the Persian Guardian, who says that the government should proceed to information laws and provide the necessary information. This is where the extra part decides to limit public access to information, and we certainly cannot support it.
