ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u1	Borist has written a letter from the council chairman of the left movement for an offer of green activity. 2.m. Smoke. S., Sóggis Svavarsdóttir, will be absent in the near future. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly as a reserver for her 1st, a substitute on the left movement's list of green bids in the district, Orri Páll Jóhannsson. He has previously taken his place at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u2	President. By the time I was gone, I was completing my first tour of the public transportation program and had talked about city lines. In view of the fact that much of the discussion took place during the night, I think that just a few of my main points from that discussion, for those who may have been asleep at the time of the discussion, in order to be able to move on to the next section of the city line and turn to the airport in Reykjavík, the airport in Watermur. The reasons why I have serious doubts about the city line, and how this project is given up, are many. First, this is a project that has all the characteristics of infrastructure products that bring real financial problems to a very long time. I gave a foreign example of this, similar to the project, but there are a lot of these things that yell at you, in terms of the fact that this is going on a trip that is not at the end of the business and other difficulties. In fact, in this country, and in this city, Reykjavík, as it is now developing, it is a major project to be started with so little preparation. In fact, we hear a minister still describing the details of the city line. Rather, it is strange that the amount of money spent on this project is as long as being spent here. However, the project itself and a brief summary of how this is planned. You can own it in this city, i.e. The mayor's share with his colleagues is that they are quite reluctant to explain what they intend to do with a city line, although ministers may not quite know it. One of the goals is simply to squeeze into traffic, to squeeze other traffic, to take one lane in each direction under the city line, and to squeeze into another traffic, and to force people to make use of the city line. In other words, consumer management and very peculiar, Mr. President, are to see the independent party represent a levelly consumer control; one lane is taken in each direction by public traffic under the city line. At the same time, it is to maintain the bus system. It's essential to the city line because it doesn't go through all the city. The bus system in the neighborhood must be maintained to bring the people back to the city line. In other words, double systems, twice the bus system, are being introduced in the capital area. In view of experience with the way the bus business has been working in recent years and even decades, it must raise questions about the cost of running this double system. Of course, the city line itself will be very expensive. We can see this from the experience of other nations. But when another bus system is added, what will be the cost? We don't know. There is no such thing as expected cost of business. We know that the project will be expensive, and I think most people will realize that it will be far beyond schedules, even if it would be judged on the outside, where similar projects have all become a major problem and have advanced in their plans. And here we are talking about Reykjavík, which spent $2 billion on a piece of paper. We know that the investment will be much more expensive than expected, I think we can get it fixed. But we have no idea of the future cost of business and the State's contribution. You know, when all of this is started, the State will be expected to continue to support the project. This decision is being made, even for decades, about an endless amount of money on the road to the capital area. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u3	President. It's interesting to hear what you're talking about. A senator makes this premeditation that he is now going to cover the city line because so few people heard its speeches during the night he spent here the other day. I heard them all, and they all covered the city line, which is amazingly special because we're not dealing with the city line. It's like a person's sideliness. A senator has become such that he is not aware of where we are on the program. We're dealing with a transport plan. The next item on the agenda is the line of the city. In case of a moment. At some point, the members of the Central Party decide to stop the spoken language on the transport program, and we'll be able to discuss the city line. It is interesting, Mr. President, to observe how a whole squad decides to advertise here so that he is completely out of control, there is not any alternative for any other group ever to join this category that keeps the Allied Council hostage out of personal animosity toward one politician. People who thus associate with democracy are not controlled. And it's fine, if that's all right. The members of the Central Party advertise it only day after day, night by night, talk by talk. I would've thought what. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, whose roots are rooted in the Northeast District, wanted to talk to his voters about construction in the northeastern district. But no, Mr President. Hv. A senator is not interested in them. He doesn't have to talk to the people of Akureyri about the sound of flying where the money is finally given here. He does not need to discuss with the inhabitants of Thord or the mountains around the seafront. He's not interested in that. His personal ill will toward one of the politicians, who is not even in that hall, crowded everything. It's only fine that it's been cleared up once and for all, that the standard rules of democracy vary. It's no big deal for a senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u4	Mr. President. It wasn't really an answer. It was a panic attack, and I think it would have been a better idea. A senator would have called some radio show and released his release. Yet, some of the points he mentioned. First of all, you said why. A senator has listened to all my talks, and they all discussed a city line. It's just that it's not right and it shows that it's a problem. A senator has not listened as well as he would like to be, for I covered a lot of domestic flights before turning to the public transport of the covenant. This project and public transportation certainly depend on what we are talking about here, the transport plan. In case of a moment. A senator will learn what is under discussion, including the following: to discuss public transportation and city lines. Perhaps one of the reasons, one of the few, is that despite very important changes in the transport program for the better of the committee, it has been difficult to support the overall plan, since there are still important defects. About theories well. A senator's concern is that all of this is about some personal ill will for any politician he does not mention. I would like to point out that here in this discussion about the city line and the public transport program is a commitment of tens of billions to the future. Why wouldn't the senators want to talk about it? In fact, it's amazing. A senator should respond in this way and try to avoid discussions about tens of millions of expenses, even hundreds of billions of dollars, for a long future and will create some theory that this is a form of animosity toward a politician. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u5	President. Yeah, that's the side being thing. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator is in his 13th speech. Still, he thinks I'm trying to stop a discussion by spending two minutes telling my opinion. A respectable president. It's all right. A senator has already exposed himself as the mobster he is. He just says to the voters all over the country, "You know what? I don't care about you, your roads, your destinies, your transportation. I don't care. One page of 30 in a committee magazine is about the transport contract, and I'm going to discuss it. No, I'm sorry, Mr. President, you're right. He gave a few speeches, I don't know how many there were, since he listed the name of the Scottish Islands. I encourage voters to listen to them because what's called Scotland is all about domestic flights in Iceland because we're going to take up a so-called Scottish route. It is interesting to see this priorities. The city line is under discussion. I'm really ready to discuss it. But she is being discussed in the next issue. Hv. Central Party members have a means of transportation, and they have a problem trying to prevent the U.S. Council from fulfilling its legal role by implementing a transport program. It's different for me before. The members of the Central Party have so far given themselves out to want to build up, get jobs started, do you think it was triplet in the interests of jobs, or some other form of overexploitation around here the other day? But no, it's not. It's what transportation wants. A senator and the Central Party will stop all their projects and say to the inhabitants of the country: You don't need anything. I have to drop myself here in a pit because I need to speak against the city line. Fuck you, my voters in the Northeast District.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u6	President. It was very strange, but I can say with a what. A senator's encouragement to listen to my previous talks on the transportation program and especially on the Scottish route was discussed. Actually, I didn't just talk about islands, I also talked about Sutherland, Southland, which is the northernmost part of Scotland and Kathanes, which is tung there. But all of that will be explained, as they will hear when they hopefully listen to their talks and respond to encouragement. Senator. But there is still much to be said about this matter. Hv. A senator complains that I have not yet been on the ports and roads of the Northeast highlands. I have, in fact, - if he'd been paying more attention to my talks, he would have heard - say it's all happening. Everything's coming later today or the next few days. I try to go through this fairly organized, start with the international flight, then go to the public transport section, but the roads, ports, and tunnels are all left, so far. A senator can be eager to follow along. Claims 'em all. A senator on verbal abuse is unmistakably peculiar, coming from a local council member of the left movement, a class of green volunteers that has an inheritance of decades in the past based on filancy, not a verbal discussion, but just a filamentist, for he is speaking in one place about nothing, but then he comes in on such a transport plan and is shocked to see that too much time is spent discussing that matter. I remind you that transport plans are in effect for three years. While the General shall certainly agree with the transport strategy, transport plans are in effect for three years. There are some improvements in the schedule we discuss here, but there are also great defects, and that is why it is natural to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u7	V.E.G. President. I must at the beginning of my speech, less so. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Proppér Otttirssonppé has it, because of what happened earlier, that many of our talks in this matter covered much more than the city line and many of the talks I gave were actually a token of appreciation. However, for the extent to which a transport committee has worked effectively on the transport program proposed in the fall. I was happy because the transport program was very dwindling, and various projects, just in the region, are being moved back in line. Hv. A transport committee brought many of the projects back and forward, so rural areas and people from the region are more at peace with these matters today than they were before Christmas. In fact, I read from the reviews of various rural communities and the communities in the country around us about that matter and, in fact, their humility in receiving little but something in the future, to be said. I'd like to grab off a report that came out of the weather in the winter. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, along with other members of the council, requested a report from the prime minister on how to cope with the storm and the consequences of the storm. December, 2019. The report came on June 2, and it deals with repairs and improvements. The most exciting thing is to say that the massive storm that swept over Iceland in December 2019 caused great damage and a social impact. Transport stopped, and the job life was paralyzed in the most affected areas. The report is well worked and takes on important factors that turn to shallow forests, but, as people remember, the northern and northern western waters became largely lacking power in electricity. The report says, with the permission of the president: In the East, in the West, and in a small area in the South. For three consecutive days, the power outage lasted the longest. The lack of electricity caused extensive communication, and some areas in which people were out of contact with the outside world as well as with the lack of electricity, especially in rural areas. Many grapplings, as well as damage to monuments, were caused by the oceans. Farmers were affected by the weather of the storm and the lack of electricity. In addition, avalanches fell, yet fewer than was expected for weather forecasting. [...] It was decided to send a small amount of population between land areas, leaving the possibility of failure in the light of the storm and a lot of uncertainty about where possible problems in the public system would be. In the front of the storm, however, some workers and contractors were moved to within the country... The workers were sent to Vikings and to other locations around the country. The report says that the Landsnet has organized man - made man - made design and that the road was also prepared. And it goes: ▪ Isavia went over a strategy, prepared action, and made contact with all airports. Landsaves called out relief forces, captured a local government station, and moved equipment between areas. As a result, because of heavy snow, wind, and bad visibility, there was widespread disturbance in transportation. The postarization and structure of an inside tree have been enormous. It is a fine report, as well as a number of statements in it. Speaking of transport, it is a great responsibility that we make it possible for transport to provide equal terms between parts of the country because of circumstances that vary from one side to the other due to the weather and generally move. This has been the case with many people in the past. When it is said that we are discussing only one aspect of a transport program, it is by no means correct.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u8	Mr. President. I decided to give an answer. Hv. A senator in many ways pleases me, a very quiet and scrutinizing senator. But I'm going to draw attention to this presentation by the Middle Class, who brought us Iceland record in a filancy of 120 or 140 hours. last year. Now this is back on the schedule and in this case by the city line. They even repeat speeches, and this is a case that is being held in agreement with the government and the city because of a capital agreement. The talk is held at the 11th and 12th, and we are later given the 20th talk. I think of this as a methodology, a well-known methodology, which I have previously called a threat to the contemporaneous democracy. These are old rhythms from the last summer I've grown very tired of. The real thing now is that important issues are being delayed, transport programs are up to many billions of initiatives, and projects waiting for all over the country. They are airports, harbors, bridges, roads, tunnels. The questions are: Is the Central Party waiting for an approved rural group throughout a country where the drive will be legalised at this council? How does this conversation with what follows, the bill on the national Treaty, the company, the bill on cooperation projects, and where should this be included in the program of the council that will take a long break, including the staff for the next week?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u9	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson for talking about how the person standing here is a doll and a doll. It's the second time I've had, I wasn't here before in years, so something's got better over the years. How grateful I am to receive such commendation from time to time! paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson because I have great respect for him. But in the event that there is a filibuster, I don't know if it's possible to sort out what's going on here. This is a transport program, and much of the time has been taken to the city line talk. But I just have to say, as I spoke earlier, most of my time was spent talking about transportation in the country, where I came from the country, and I quoted just the reviews of the rural society. It is therefore a joy to have been working on a transport committee, as I spoke in my talk earlier, and there I mentioned humility. It is well - known over the years that the language method is a tool that the government has sometimes used to exercise unmotivated issues. In case of a moment. I don't know if it's likely that there may be some issues in the Central Party that we're looking for in a better position. But the senator covered the stage, and I can't answer any more of the questions in this talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u10	Mr. President. Yes, it is a modern - day practice to use a discrepancy at the General Assembly and have been attending for decades. But it also comes with responsibility and responsibility, as is said, that things are handled according to content and in accordance with the time that is natural for them to take full judgment. You cannot say that the 120 or 140 hours of last year were in any way a natural trial in one language. I just challenge it. A senator and his party to show this responsibility in action. Well, it's a legal transport program that's supposed to be done and there's two basics here that we're going to talk about. If it's the same beat, we'll know exactly what this means. These issues are being damaged as they get on the way they deserve them. That is why I simply want to ask: What are the middle class waiting for? Do they not understand the call of the time when these things will occur? We have spent a tremendous amount of time discussing a previous road program. That transport plan has been revised. She's been accepted, and it certainly needs to be discussed. But it also has its time limit. I just ask the simple question: How will the remaining discussion, if the media continues to do this, be included within the Senate days and the discussions we have here until the intermission?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u11	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for his second speech in those answers. Speaking of irresponsibility, I would like to point out to the senator that a road program in force will remain in effect in the event of evolution that this one would not be approved. I've said it here in speeches, and we more, that this transport strategy is mostly good but there's something there, as the news has been said, which is not okay. And speaking of what's going to be approved here on the official transport community here in the city of Reykjavík, I'm sure there'll be some further discussion. However, regarding the conversations of a three - pack energy package last year, we look at the central category in which the nation's independence, the right to power sources, and so forth. It was worth discussing, and it could be talked about for a long time. There's another energy pack, a pack of four, and we probably need to talk about it in the future. There was always something new in that discussion, and talks were never reinvigorated, speaking about filancy, in that discussion. We were always getting new material that we could talk about day after day and night after night.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u12	The president recommends that we complete a discussion of the transport programme before discussing a pack of four energy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u13	Mr. President. I was going to take a closer look at the transport program, but now I turn to the transport contract of the capital area because of my first speech today and my counterweapon. Of course, I always consider it commendable to have an opportunity to discuss the city line, and I'm not shy about discussing it, and why? Because there's a lot of money in it for the state and community and the public, if it comes to collecting speed and traffic costs, so I'm celebrating every opportunity to talk more about the city line, because much and a lot of new things have been done over the last two days, three days, and many people are asking questions, not just here at the council, but in the community. It's only on community media and newspaper articles. So I believe this is a very timely discussion. Why do I say this, Mr. President? Because so far, the debate over the city line has been very one side. She's been involved, she's blurred, hazy, and she's been characterized by beautiful dreams and abducted and how much it's gonna cost. The type of wagons to be used, for example, where they should lie, how the city line would squeeze other traffic, and many other things. As traffic engineer Þórarinn Hjaltason claims, Mr. President, in his recent and detailed article on the nuclear reactor, the presentation of the language by the city's mayor of Reykjavík has been more in line with propaganda than with the detailed and professional reports on the subject. This has been the case, according to traffic engineer. In his article, he reasoned. What I think the engineer is telling us is that we are still being sold to the capital people and to the people with this idea and with a beautiful projection of what it will be like when most of the city's citizens are going to travel through in the cars. I think it would be easier for the packaging to be removed from this city line and we would be allowed to see the contents as it really looks; where it is supposed to lie, to what traffic it will squeeze, what happens to the current traffic dams when it becomes even more tight. What will happen to the blockages of traffic then? Will they disappear, and all the drivers will jump into the light - moving city line? - Or was it a limousine? Or was it carriages, or whatever the final move was to be? Will the traffic knots disappear along the city line taking one lane in the main traffic lines? What will be the cost of operating? What will be the use, Mr. President? Will it increase as the 2011 project block deal was planned when a billion were put in, annually, to promote public transport in the capital area? And now, nine years later, it turns out that there was no success or the next small one from that experiment. But the illusion will continue, Mr. President. They're supposed to continue pumping funds into the mayor's dream factory, and the packaging is so beautiful that many government systems, both state and neighboring society, and the public, have already been deceived. Or perhaps it is more that these people are willing to pay a high price to be released from the prison that they have experienced during the past decade and longer on the construction stop, ready to pay a high price to get out of the siege system that they and the rest of the capital have experienced during this construction stop. The ransom enables us to see that long - awaited, long - term, and timely projects at the footways and misdirected corners of the capital area will finally begin. The nature of ransom is simple, Mr. President. The more precious in the mind of those who rely on the ransom, i.e. that are to be taken out of the army of the one with value in his hand and that there is also a certain and valuable advantage that the person has full knowledge of this precious thing, the greater the ransom can be demanded, and the willingness to pay is often great in these cases. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's known, Mr President, in hostage situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u14	President. I am especially pleased with the talk of which. The Councilman of the Southern District shows his voters to be perfectly black on white that he really doesn't care about them. Not one word of the Horn of the Earth, not one word of a double between Whoorah and Selephos, not one word of great activity in the countryside, the highways here and there. Not one word of a bill on the program later today, or would normally be, if the members of the Central Party were not in their own language, on the cooperation of a bridge over Elfy, not one word about any of this important work in the district of each. A senator thinks, "Dear voters." I don't care about you guys. I'm going to join my team in shouting and growling here: the borgarlína line, no, thank you. I got it. I got it. A senator to stroll across the street to study the city line. Given the way he talks about her, he doesn't know much about her. I got it. I got it. A senator, too, to participate in discussions about the city line under the matter of an institution of a city-infested society. I got it. I got it. A senator, if he would like to be in touch with his voters, to talk about the issues of his voters, not just about the city line or no, I'll draw all this encouragement back, the highest. President. I'd like the Central Party to take off the mask as the great task force. He's saying to his voters all over the country: we don't care about you. We don't care about the transportation you've been calling for. Companys in the South came to see each other. The Environment and Transport Committee said, "Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. Accept this now. Hv. paritaprevir The district says, "No, I don't care about you." I'll have a little chat about the city line.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u15	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator who may not have responded. I think they're gonna say something. To a senator earlier today, we are holding the same talks over and over again. Looks like I'm having a talk. The senator is now a repetition of his opposition to why. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, except he changed the word of the north-east standard in the South. I think it was just the same speech. Why am I interested in a city line? Why do I hire a city line? This, of course, is because of the budget estimated to be a city line, billions of dollars from a government fund, and of course it comes down to other projects. We don't use the same money twice. And first what. A senator refers to a South American district, which, in part, is not well spent on such vague projects as the city line. I think the money would be just better off in the South Sea. During my first discussion of the transport program, I discussed national projects and including the southern districts. So there is a misunderstanding. A senator told me that I should only give talks about the South Sealine. I'm interested in every project. I'm interested in the funding we're building. I'm interested in the priorities of projects and, of course, on a city line too, because it's a big part of the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u16	President. That was interesting. Hv. A senator does not know his language better than he does, but he believes that the only word I wrote from the moment I responded. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson is the name of the district. I know why. Don't you think it's a senator where the Hornground is? I know why. Is it not the case with a senator that the Who Made and Selephos? That the Arson County is there? This is interesting, but it may not be surprising when it comes to understanding. The members of the Central Party's members on projects don't seem to be one of them. President, has made it known today. Central Party Parliaments believe that in terms of transport, this is of no concern to be accepted. They fail to realize that they need to work right away on the supplementes of this transport strategy, on projects, on funds, billions, who are to enter the road system next year, including the ideals. A senator, a Southern district, whom I encourage him to travel around and study. You have to start working on it. For example, a double-sized agreement must begin to be made in the Elfjörður Bridge, starting with everything that needs to be done in the field already. Councilman, etc. But, hey. A senator doesn't care. He's trying to paint the image that he's only got this wide field of interest, and that's why he's here from time to time talking about the city line, or else he's running around the country talking about it. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should review his talks. In fact, I encourage him to be seated and in good balance when he does. There could be a little shock before what happened. A senator learns how much he talks about the city line and how little he talks to his voters. But it's just fine, Mr. President. It is only fine that the middle class show by the talk that not enough of him not knowing his own districts, cares about his own initiatives, does not know what is going to happen, and does not exist to resist money coming in to create jobs, but is also a completely unmanageable category. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. He's gone a lot. He directed that when I read my speeches, I should be balanced. I think he should be more alert to his balance than me to mine. He went great and bad. Councilmen, especially the left green, have spoken that way, like a whale. A senator said that the understanding of the Middle Class, if I had just noticed, there was no one. [[The point is, obviously not.]] Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson spoke in a speech, referring to the middle-class members if I understood correctly that we did not understand the call of time. If you're a sea of truth, then what is it? Senators, you may wish to bring him here, but you would not come up in a pit and spit out the claims of others'inadequacies. [[Up front.]] Just bring the truth. If you are agents of the truth, bring it. I think the capital city is waiting to get the truth about the city line. [[Up front.]] We're here in a pool to inform the citizens of it. As the traffic Þórarinn Thorne Hjaltason in detail in his recent article on the core, the appearance of a city line has been more in line with propaganda than with enlightenment. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator who has recovered should read this fine article of Þórarinn's Hjaltason in the core.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u18	A respectable president. This is a transport program, and of course it is a number of steps to take. There's some small misunderstanding going around, that's heard me, in the discussions, that there's no means of transportation. Of course, this is in the value of a transport program. There is nothing to worry about. Yet, there are changes that need to be discussed. One of the biggest changes in the transport program we are now discussing is that of this so-called transport contract and this city line, which somehow seems to be shut down here in the chamber. In fact, even the members of the committee's list of parts are a special chapter on the city line and on the transport contract. As a result, it is only natural to discuss this very detail. This project is going to be a significant risk, since we have not received enough information on the final costs and the cost, sucking much of the government's contribution to transport in the next few years. Then I'm talking in general about transportation and all that under that hat, because we all know that over the next few years, there will be limited funds in the state's budget for government construction because of the loss of income and the angle now on the fund because of the epidemic. It's amazing to hear this in the middle of nowhere. The members of the board that they must not talk about the rest and this at the same time they come up here and talk down to other members of Congress who want to talk to them about things they feel so uncomfortable about. And I'm happy if the members of the administration team are going to continue to reveal themselves in this way. There's something else you haven't heard from the executives talking about in this chair, especially those who are now members of the ranks of the mayor. I really hope that there will be a change in their coming up here and explaining what they're thinking about the airport in Reykjavík. In our opinion, it should be perfectly clear that this airport is not going, but the city council groups that are somewhat dominant at the council have other ideas. It would be good to hear about that part. The section in the opinion of the greater portion of it all is somewhat demeaning, at least of its contents. I also wanted to say that the review of the Transporter's Council on Transport reveals a considerable concern that the total amount of transport is actually being reduced. It is important to look at it realistically. If that is true, on the basis of economic growth and the grounds given in the review, we must, of course, realistically look at the situation and acknowledge that even if we are going to spit a little bit at the moment, we should look at it. It is important to consider this in line with the transport plan. For example, I still have to find the place in the committee list of parts that were taken into consideration. That may be where, though, I haven't found it, but there's something I'll try to find. There's a special matter for this so-called cooperation here at the Congress Hall, Mr. President. So it is that they are also referred to in the members of the leading section. Thus, it can't be forbidden to discuss this cooperation, even if it is uncomfortable for the greater part. I'm gonna let me just step in there and discuss it. I just hope that some part and the highest. Mr President will forgive me if it violates any rules of the greater part. I've pointed that out before, and I haven't had any answers. Then I hope someone comes back and answers what I'm about to wonder. On page 18. A total of 17 members of the committee study are referred to in this work of cooperation. It says here, by permission of the President: It is more important that road laws be made clear about government and rural development on urban transport so that the expense shifts under the Treaty are in accordance with the Law. Encourages the committee to review the law in this regard. Now I ask, is this unclear? From the opinion of the court, it's unclear. So it is only natural to ask: Why on earth do people not want to explain this before continuing a matter that is so big and expensive and will cost so much? Am I wrong with the fact that this is a costly assignment? Am I wrong if there's any uncertainty about the ultimate cost? Is it wrong for me to be unsure about the cost change when it comes to it? If I'm wrong, I don't know why this chapter is in the leading section. It is evident, at least, that the majority of the segments have reason to examine these laws so that these laws are completely clear. [[The president calls.]] As a result, we can conclude that this is not clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u19	Mr. President. Here was a word called the call of time. You see, these discussions contain a password in a fairly multiple sense. First, it is the call of time for the transport program to be set up for a intermission. If the Central Party isn't going to help us do that, it doesn't understand the time's call. It is also the call of time because of the economic influence of a transport program. If this is not the case, preparation for countless tasks will be delayed. And then it's the call of the time so that a intermission is not over, and with this forward, I don't know what happens. Then they said, too, that even if this did not work out, it would be all right because of a prior policy. This is a big misunderstanding because if the revision that we are considering is not currently accepted, the project will have to be expanded and rushed. What a terrible misunderstanding it is if we think that we are going to accept the transportation program that we set out in February 2009! Across the street is a presentation on the city line, relatively well and clear. I don't know if the members of the Central Party went there and studied what the city line is because they are constantly groping men about their nostrils that they don't know what it's all about. And as for financing and cooperation, I'm the head of that committee opinion, and I'm going to discuss it under the third team today, tomorrow or later this summer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u20	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. That was not much of an answer. Hv. In fact, a senator put it in my mind that it was all right to put off a moving schedule. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u21	No...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u22	But I told you so... I said --what. However, a senator, listen to me, I said that there were other forms of transportation, but there were changes now that were likely to be important, so it is not right for the senator to suggest, that this is what we did not realize. [[Up front.]] I just agree with what. A member of Congress that is not far behind, has been negotiated, we know what it's like. That is why we need to be very careful. What matters also is exactly what I was. pointing to it, of course, did not answer at any time. A senator - and perhaps in his history in this so - called cooperative relationship - seems to have come to realize that a greater part is not clear how to split the costs in the cooperation or agreement between the state and rural society. Is it not a responsibility to intend to accept a matter at the council if there is no such thing? That's a responsibility, isn't it? Or feel it. It doesn't matter to a senator that they're clear before you go on that journey? There is something else that may also be presented in talks on this cooperation project that is on the program. It is the final cost of a city line, how the cost change is, who will bring up the profits or losses on the project, and if it exceeds a plan who will cost it and carry it. That is why we must ask. A senator, even though he may not be asking me, answers me, but he is. A senator must be able to answer the costs if a city line or any of these projects are planned. [[The president calls.]] How will he be divided?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u23	Mr. President. I know exactly what to do. A senator said about the transport plan and the first transport plan. I was referring to words as a matter of course. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson fell, and that may well be the case. A senator was not here in the hall, but he was just here. To me, in the exact carelessness of this tatapolitic bitch, which is being practiced here, there is a sort of representative because it has been said that people don't understand what they're doing by stalling here all too much. I don't necessarily object to careful discussions or to what people can call moderate speech code. Everyone has practiced it, and it is the right of the government to use it in some way. But the call of time is this: What shall we do on Thursday? Will the middle class be responsible for our staying for a week or two or three more? I've been asking a lot of questions, but I never get the answer. I'm asked about the capital contract. In itself, I have not participated in the preparations, but I know that the crude exchange of the 1,100,120 billion people there is. Then it is clearly the role of the group being formed, and why. Middle-class members are actually stalling with their language, going into the exact cost exchange, switching losses, etc. That's what this is for. The state is taking a role in the infrastructure and other activities, for much of this is, of course, footways, and so on. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u24	A respectable president. This is very interesting. Hv. A senator tells us that it is a society's decision to exchange the losses or costs of those tasks. I am deeply concerned that the generals are going to assign a partner to make that decision. That's what worries me. In my mind it must be, in the laws that will be passed on this society, at least completely prepared and expressed that the union that such a thing cannot make one-sided decisions about it. It must be made absolutely certain that every debt of this community on the state funds will come to the General Assembly for discussion. It's not like this today, if I understand the bill correctly. It needs to be changed, that's for sure. This is what I - I cannot speak for other members of Congress - is most concerned. A number of things are fine in a transport program. You know, there's a lot of good in all these checks. As a matter of fact, I think that's what it is. A senator and his colleagues of the Committee were very successful. The worst strategy by the Minister was changed considerably. She's a lot better than she was, so they say that. But there are holes, holes, or holes, that you are deeply concerned about, that can be tied up for a long time with strong uncertainty about these projects, how they end and what else they do, and that if there are any complications in all of this, they can be thrown into a government fund, because it reduces the length of the money that is available to other projects, whether in the South or in the North or where they are. We simply want it to be good, that it's all done and signed. In fact, I believe that the mayor of Reykjavík finds it extremely convenient to keep it as open as possible so that the official General account can be sent to the whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u25	Mr. President. I'm going to come into my speech to the development of the second-hand flight system in Iceland, but I have to start by reacting to it as soon as possible. Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé and Ari Trausti Guðmundsson have said here. They've been critical of our Middle Class lawsuits, we're stalling transport plans, stalling projects, and putting up unconcerned politicians like what they're doing. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson expressed it in answer to him. I just want to protest, Mr. President. The transport program is set for hundreds of billions of dollars. This is the third day we're discussing this matter, and I'm not wrong with carefully reviewing it. In addition, we have declared that we are opposed to this city - wide project that costs tens of billions of dollars. Is it not the democratic right and right of members of Congress to express themselves on such projects that cost such enormous amounts? At the same time, we're going to make a record of government funds, we're looking to see the need to cut down on the next budget, strategies, etc., and this is a huge budget for state funds. I say it once again: It is perfectly normal to take the time to discuss these matters. In my earlier talks, I have pointed to the emphasis in my district, the Southern District, which I believe is important in this discussion, and I believe I have been very important in it. Then comes a senator like a dog. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, and straggler of loud speeches, hints that the Central Party is putting everything in here as a hostage, a transport plan, a performance, etc. I'm here to present these comments. Senator, Mr President, to the Father House. I am absolutely convinced that if he now took some of the issues he has been discussing, he might take his own time in reviewing the importance of transportation. It's just the duty of our senators. It is our duty, Mr. President, to call attention to various issues in our districts when it comes to a transport plan, and that's what I've done, and that's what we've been doing in the media. We have given this city-lining project a special focus because there is a lot of confusion in the cost of a huge sum, $50 billion dollars from a government fund, just in the city line that is not exactly understood how to use it, how many passengers come to use it, and whether this is wise from that point of view. No, it's just to be done right away, preferably in just one day. Accept here the expenses from the $50 billion, preferably in one day without any discussion. Everyone frustrated and just wanna get home, and the government groups want to get away for a summer vacation and we're just supposed to stop and sign a check for a fortune of tens of billions of dollars just like that. There is no way to pay for such strange emphasis on the government classes in these matters. I say again and again, President: There is nothing unusual about us middle-class members standing here on the platform and going over these matters carefully because that is our duty. It is simply our duty, especially when there is so much money to be paid from a government fund. I see that time is far now, I was going to talk about a backup airport, but I couldn't help but come up here and protest the lawsuits of the senators who have come up here and criticize us middle-class members for taking a critical stand on various aspects of a road program that costs a great deal of money. No project is being delayed. They've approved a special investment initiative. There's something that we can do this year, so it's just a complete outback. Senators say we're stalling. And to call it a carefree political act when you go through the media to help with the transportation program, a variety of projects in the district, is natural indistinguishable. Those members of Congress who wish to be taken seriously are not to promote this kind of language.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u26	Mr. President. Because of what has been said here, I'd like to contend with members of the Central Party that have discussed this matter in a perfunctory way, as we generally do on the subject. And if I may allow myself to speak here as a member of the Council of Reykjavík, the National Congress of the North, the Trustee of Smoke, while also a member of the United States council, I would like to say that the greatest task facing transport in Reykjavík and the capital area is this city line. There's nothing to avoid, Mr. President, discussing it. This project is expected to be placed at the top of the list of priorities. Clearly, it has been decided in the city of Reykjavík, and for some reason the National Independence Party is taking over the government case to finance the task that everyone knows is the election case for the majority, and particularly the leadership party in the mayor of the United States. There is no denying that the matter is well, thorough, and detailed, even if it were only for the size and sum of money, and indeed debated. I'm just going to tell you here for a trial that there have not been any members of the Central Party who have spoken against public transportation. Many members of our council are familiar with public transport. Some have made longer or shorter times abroad and have identified public transportation there and, of course, here in Iceland. The question that this matter is about in principle is: Is the defence defender setting up 50 billion dollars of money on this project, as it is suggested? Although this is a transport program for discussion, there is a bill on the establishment of a government community, Mr. President, and it is traced to the specific details of the funding of this project, and this figure is presented at 49.6 billion in the city line. That's why I'm getting close to 50 billion. However, it also expects that in this pit the most precious construction site in the capital area and perhaps the whole country, the country, the country. Mr. President. Fifty billion is not a small amount. It says that this project has been objected to by a man of knowledge. Here are some articles quoted from a traffic engineer that appeared over a year ago on the substantiate and is quoted by Þórarinn Hjaltason, who has both engineering education and management research. This author, this scholar, points to his conclusion that only a few billion have to be spent to improve public transport, in order to complete the preeminent bus trade in the capital area, as he puts it. He says, and I'm going to allow myself to take directly out of the quoted article of the traffic engineer, with the permission of a president: In this way, the number of billions of people can be saved, without much effort in bus service. Mr. President. This will not be overlooked. Where are the followers of this case? Why don't they come here and discuss this with us? Why are they unable to discuss the fact that this will cost only a few billion to the tens of billions of people who are supposed to do this? Why are they unable to discuss costs, interest estimates, costs hazards, or management plans after this project is completed, which have been identified as not being available? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why do we get these guys? Councilmen, e.g. in classes that make up the most part of Reykjavík, not to discuss this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u27	A respectable president. I had planned to return to Reykjavíkur Airport, disappear from the city line, and to the city airport. It is not such a long - range link, since the city line is literally at Reykjavíkur Airport. On the other hand, I cannot resist the moment, or I feel that it is actually my duty, after the happy one is happy. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé came up earlier and, apparently, had some misunderstood discussion on the Scottish route and the interior flight, to explain the matter only before continuing. There was another way. A member of the management team and, indeed, the left movement ◯ green supply, why. paritaprevir That is what Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylflfóttir, who brought up the exact question of how vague it was still what was planned by the Scottish route. It seems to be different from what this way is taught by our neighboring country. Hv. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenfelddddóttir noted that in Scotland, this route took only to the perimeter, and I traced it to the settlements there. In many cases, there are remote islands and outer fields of Scotland, where the population population is inhabited, not thousands, but hundreds, even over 100 inhabitants in one or two cases. And this raises that question as a reason. paritaprevir Vosa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfóttir put it here very wisely: The Icelandic government is going to introduce the Scottish route on the same grounds as it is carried out in Scotland and will only give support to people who live in very small and far - flung settlements, say, e.g. ... inGamney? Or does the government intend to implement this route as an effort to support domestic flights as public transportation and support national flights to Akureyri, Egress and Ishafjörður, etc.? Hv. paritaprevir In his opinion, Ramít Friðbertsson spoke of this, and he is correct in saying that certain standards have been discussed there. But that is the problem. It has been referred to as a reference, and you would have wanted a transport program to be made more clearly manifest in the way the government intends to implement this Scottish way, in which case there would be a commitment. We have seen too often that declarations have made about what they want or would want to do in transportation, especially with regard to domestic flights, but so little has been the case. Even now in this Covid situation, there is a huge statement of internal action and the Akureyri Airport is called, as well as the Egress State Airport. But when the government's investment plans for this situation were introduced, there was very little room for this. The motions of our Middle Class, to add to that and to help the government live by the declarations, were rejected by the government. Transport statements, national flights, are one thing but made everything else. This has proved to be true. Thus, a person in connection with a transport program would want to see a greater commitment on the part of the government in this regard. In particular, this is unclear about domestic flights, and the evidence in the program is more in the direction that it is thinking of getting together and even reducing the service rather than the other. [[The president calls.]] One more trip is over, and I'm going to ask a respectable president to put me on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u28	V.E.G. President. It is not surprising that we discuss these transport plans because this is a wealth of money from a government fund and money may even be picked up in public pockets. Aside from the taxes the public will pay, the taxpayers' pockets will probably be picked up if they record roads and/or change the curses on the private car. I'd like to talk to you about something else, Mr. President. I don't think it's possible to find for a long time as bad an investment on the part of the state as well as the money that has gone to improve public transportation, as it is called. But this project has been spent 1 billion dollars. Every year, probably for nine years. At the beginning of this decision, surveys found that some 4% of the population used public transportation. At the time, they expected this billion a year to change their proportion, but the experiment is different. According to a bus report, there are still 4% who use public transportation. I don't know, and I'm corrected by the president, to have seen a report that shows the results of this wealth, i.e. A billion a year all that time. I think it would be informative to get such a report, as well as to find out what that money went on to. As a man looking from outside, I do not know that the changes in bus transport in the capital area have been made that it takes less time to use this service for and from work. If someone had been surveyed like that, I would appreciate my correction, and it would be drawn out. I also have no idea that taking a bus with some special attractions was more attractive. The cost of fare has not been reduced to a degree, but it might have been worth the experiment at the time if we had seriously intended to promote public transportation. Now there are plans to put a lot of money on public transportation, and the Independence Party seems to be ready to name $50 billion. in one of the apps he doesn't know what is, anyway, the head of the party doesn't know what it is. Nevertheless, he is willing to open the purse of the people of the country, allowing from there 50 billion tasks in public transportation that the head of the pack does not know what it is. I would have thought, Mr. President, that there was every reason why men would stumble and appreciate much more what changed during the nine years that a billion each year went into public transportation; in what they took for money; in what they were used. Were they used to increase the share of public transportation? I don't think so. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry to notice that my time has passed, so I pray to the highest degree. President of putting me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u29	V.E.G. President. I'm going to continue talking about flying in this transport program. Of course, most people want to maintain airports all over the country and especially when flying is being discussed as part of public transportation. We would like to talk about Keflavík Airport, Reykjavík, Akureyri Airport, and then Lampine Airport, but it is also the smaller airports that play an important role, and especially a security role. This is especially important now when all measures that are directly life - threatening or resulting from life - threatening accidents are carried out in the city of New York in Reykjavík. So we can say that the safety role of Reykjavík's airport is clear. Similarly, it is important to remember that accidents occur all over the country and that patients and those injured from where accidents occur are important. I talked, for example. This is the other day at the Northland airport. He's just finished, so to speak, and it was in cooperation with companies and local people. It wouldn't have been different. But let us assume that everything is fine because of the large international airports, those we talk about as a backup airport, that no more money is needed. It must be time for the smaller airports, and they are, to put this in a certain context, called groundground airports, and the airports I talked about here earlier. There are airports in the Valley of Bilud, Isfará, Gigri, Gímur, Gímur, Húsavík, Armor, Cape of the Hornfjord, Western Islands, and Thors Haveh. It's quite a number of places, and I have to dive further into the funds placed in the maintenance of these airports. To put it in the context of the budget to be set at the city level, it is perfectly clear to me that the priorities need to be slightly different. The long - term schedule, as I would like to mention, says by permission of a president: ▪ Build up the infrastructure of the international airports with the emphasis on getting to the best of the need for airport pilots. In this respect, Implicit airports will be the priority. We know how much money went to Eel's position. They say: ▪ Create simple, easy and easy connections between all aspects of the public transport system and focus on linking domestic flights to other parts of the transport system, including The international flight.How's it going? This is evidently both the street in the country and the lower ground that are listed below. To finish this, they say: ▪ Home dwellers facilitate access to central service in the national capital area in a more practical way. This is important to me because it is said that the central service will continue to be in the capital area. At any rate, the current government is saying that only one hospital will be the main hospital. So it is absolutely absurd to continue to squeeze up to Reykjavík, when there is not another real option for an airport that serves all the inhabitants of the country in an adequate way. But in this list, for all airports and plans for flights to be public transport, I want to retrace that I don't think all this money in the city line, and we're just discussing stock costs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u30	V.E.G. President. I was calling for specific information earlier from the majority of the missing items. I'll just wait quietly for them to come, but all of this must come back in the end. The majority of the components go through the conclusions and related primes presented here in several chapters, including on the transport contracts and the so-called cooperation projects, PPP projects, so called the Committee. There is, for example, a special discussion on the effectiveness of such projects, but the greater part points out that this is a way to speed up projects and no doubt can be reasoned. As mentioned, including. By the current president of the chair, the Icelandic car owner's Féggi has noted that such projects usually prove to be more expensive than projects paid by a government fund themselves, as it is expected that Kingdom funds are inexpensive and superior to many others. We've also seen that many places, e.g. In Norway, people have been protesting quite a bit that way. Of course, the country's airports are very important in transportation, and of course they are built up to be used. There has been a marked shortage, and in fact, there have been flights in places where considerable structure has been built. Of course, this has been for various reasons, but one of the reasons is that it is expensive to keep a plan and would need a government fund to enter more of it than is expected here. There are many airports around the country, and they are important when it comes to transportation and so on. It is important to see the need and need for them accordingly. We have an excellent weekend service to provide medical flights with the equipment she has, including. with helicopters. Recently, we saw the importance of this activity as a certainty and a lack of financial resources. On page 18. 20 In this article, we will discuss the funding of a airport and will be happy to be being added to specific areas. This is not a lot of money at the end of the day. Of course, it takes a lot of money. Another thing I'll come to later is this turning point. Of course, what you're worried about - and I'll say that in every speech I'm gonna give in this case and related matters, Mr. President - it's about putting a government fund into a position that has little choice but to open it up. If the transport sector and all these cooperation projects and all of the equations that have been created here are going to succeed, the financial resources will continue to be kept in place for a long time. Other projects will be affected if, and now I say if because they have not been informed that they have not, the amount of funds from the state funds has not been automatically replaced by projects such as this. ... pastexplanment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u31	Mr. President. I haven't said much about the city line that some senators, directors, have been complaining about being spending a lot of time here in our discussion, which is really needed. I have used this time to discuss key issues related to my district, the Southern District, and I have visited the Smokejanes Way, the airport, a smaller airport in the South, an Eternity Bridge, riots, and other important projects. When we discuss a transport program, it is our task to draw attention to the various challenges of transport that must be addressed. That's why I say it again and again, as I said in my speech earlier, that I don't understand the senators who surface here, members of the Cabinet, and particularly members of the council in the left green, and that we're holding up this discussion about the transport program. Hv. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson said that we have a group of middle-class members here who are engaged in careless Tatapolis. It's a natural absurd presentation from a senator who wants to be taken seriously to argue that when you're talking about important transport benefits in all parts of the country, you're stalling the matter. I think the people at home who are listening, and all the people of the country, are aware that such a statement is not worth answering. It is our duty to draw attention to these important things and to thank them for what is well done, and so have we. Important changes have been made in the process of transport. I'll call it the Smokey Lane. Hopefully, it will at last be the complete end of a double Rhine Way. A chapter from Lonakoti, Hassusun, next to Krysavík, is left to be completed, and hopefully they will be completed in 2023. Good things have been done, but there are other things that need to be done and attention is needed. That's what we Middleclass have been doing here. We have identified a number of projects that must be considered. It is impossible for humans to be annoyed that we are going over this plan in detail. Here are members of Parliament who have not said a single word about this transport program, and this is one of the biggest projects of this council, except that we have been involved in various measures due to the virus epidemic. Transport is one of the big issues. Tremendous funds are put into it, tens of billions, and, of course, it is the duty of all members of Congress to participate in the discussion and express themselves on the subject, express themselves more fully, and offer suggestions. We've been doing this on our case, and I think the public's quite aware that the discussion is necessary and it's important. I don't think there are a lot of people who agree with the comments that have fallen here by the council that we are taking everything hostage by means of a transport program. I say for my part that it is absolutely necessary to discuss this further. I don't regret the time that has gone into it, and I didn't regret the time we spent talking about it at the last meeting we had to spend the night in order to be half-heated. We're making good use of the time until the end of the council. There's nothing wrong with us doing that. There are many people who have to do their jobs on weekends and at night, that's those who do shift work. It is no pity for me to spend good time discussing here one of the biggest issues of this council that are involved in a large amount of money. I see, Mr President, time is up. I was gonna come in on the city line for a little while, but I'll just do that for the next talk. [[The president calls.]] I wish to be reassigned to the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u32	V.E.G. President. In view of years of rejection, so to speak, I intend to get into a harbor speech in my speech and wait for the maintenance and development of my new ventures. Because I've been thanking you quite a while. A transportation committee for a good job in my talks would like to continue. This is evident in the committee study of more parts of the transport committee, including The waterfront has taken place in relation to the contribution of transport programmes in this fall. And with the President's permission, I'd like to take a little less of the Commission's opinion about rejection and funding and implementation: The Armadas, Kopavogs Harbor, Hafnarfjörður, and the Far East Seas are financially self-sustained. According to 1st mg. 24th par. Is It Wrong to Make a Difference? No. 61/2003, the contribution of the state funds should not disrupt the non-important competition between rejections according to the European Economic Area Convention. With reference to this, the above - mentioned ports do not serve as a government strategist. It is not discussed in the transport program [...] other ports have the support of the ransom fund, although the contribution of the State is not too competitive between ports. Although most people reject fishing, they play a variety of roles. As property of the state, decommissioning funds will be carried out by the Board of Ministers of Vega. The funds are addressed at 26 st. Portrait. As part of a transport program approved at the General Assembly, funds are funded by the funds provided by the State. The sea is permitted to reject a development team designed to support smaller ports in the country, which are important for the urbanisation and construction of the jobs. Then the fund has the authority to repair damage to marauders who meet the requirements of rejection for Kingdom grants, including those that can improve their damage to marauders, which meet the requirements for the state's grants. damages that are not fully improved in other ways. With the development of a new rejection in 2003, the role of the Deforest Fund was significantly altered. As a result, financial contributions, along with the lack of loans, were removed from the fund. The fund's role after change was to limit damages to building up structures under the law. Government funds were expected to provide sufficient funds for disposal in case of damage. This changed the role of the Deforest Fund in the role of Vega, i.e. financing transport projects Thus, during that period, in 2003, significant changes have been made that improved. Here in the commission, with permission from the President: ▪ The EEA considers the need for new and more comprehensive perspective on the maintenance need to reject and the needs of the rural society for new projects. The Redemption Fund plan is published solely in the five-year transport programme, but there is no overall policy in protests [... negatives] available which are not included in the negative funds programmes nor mentioned in a revised transport programme. For example, in the Deepvogur, the harbor that needs to be expanded [...] becomes an expansion of the Bilddal Sea to promote the development of cohesion and salmon farming in southern Western Europe. And that's how you could keep reading. It is a joy to see that in the administration of the Committee, this has developed in most lands where people are relatively small and weak, as a result of growing needs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u33	Mr. President. In my first talk earlier, I spoke about the presentation of ideas about a so - called city line, how these ideas are expressed, what packages are put in by the mayor's department, and there I quoted an article from a few days ago from the traffic engineer Þórarinn Hjaltason, which appeared in the core. There, the robot speaks of Þórarinn process as being far more like propaganda than a more clear introduction supported by evidence. In the beginning of his article, he gives some examples of this propaganda, saying, by permission of a president: If an organization does not go to extremes, good things can be done. It's going to hit the note about what this article's about and it's pretty long. It describes the view that in the capital area, far too expensive a fast - moving system is expected. So says traffic engineer. He says that propaganda for the city line went to extremes. He explains this in several examples. With the permission of a president, I'm going to bring down the first one in Thor's Þórarinn: It was originally assumed that high - quality public transport would be either a light radar transit/LRT or a fast - moving system (BRT). It is unlikely that a vast, easy - to - read system would be considered to be 2,200,000 inhabitants of a car city. I don't know any precedent for that. You may think that this was a preconceived propaganda method so that others would buy a proposal for an expensive automobile system. This was the first example he takes of what he calls propaganda in the ideas of a city line. Then, for fast carsÞórarinn the Hjaltason, which is about special space or special lanes, points us in a much less expensive way. With the permission of a president, I'm going to slide down a little further in his article: The largest part of the vehicle system is special space/specials for the fast cars. A greater part of the city's lead line is expected to be specialised. The high ratio of the combined length of the speed-trading pathway with the special lane is highly variable between cities. In automobile cities of the United States and Canada, the ratio is generally relatively low, especially in the smallest cities. Only with long waiting cars during periods of stress are the prenups for the bus. If we follow that custom, it takes only a few billion people to complete the special lanes for a bus in the capital area. Thus, there are hundreds of billions of people saved, without much control in bus service. Mr. President. This was the opinion of the traffic engineer on how to save several billion with a good solution for the city line. Could it be that this presentation, which I will rather introduce in the next talk, is intended to put dust into the eyes of the common people and others to buy the idea? This leads to the 2011 project taken up by a construction stop in the capital area to increase the share of the public transportation from 4% at that time to 8%. Now that idea is nine years old. The result? He was the next nobody. But that's to be continued. The problem is to continue because it is necessary to continue pumping funds into the mayor's dream factory in Reykjavík. We need to keep the dream factory running.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u34	Mr. President. It is not surprising that in some panel talks on this matter, the middle class members stress the so - called city line. The city line is the largest single projection expected in the coming era and should be spent to it by the billions, and if corpses do much more, because there is nothing to it that the budgets set out here are better than other budgets, I especially apply to those attacked by the city of Reykjavík under the control of the present part of it. To those who ask what the Central Party's policy is in this matter, I'd like to say, The Central Party's policy is to ensure safe and easy national transportation, in the capital area, and around the country. The question, then, is about priorities. We are not prepared to accept that a project to run at tens of billions of dollars with complete uncertainty about success - to form a series of models. paritaprevir Karl Hjaltason unsumed here just before the use of the public which left 4% in just over nine years in spite of a lot of effort - we are not ready to give so much money to this project that takes and sucks to himself from another important and, in fact, urgent projects and I mention them, of course, from the perspective of the Soviets and capitals, the Dwlashway that has been thrown into the corner of the greater part of the city. Mr. President. There is a report by an expert, an engineer who also has knowledge of management after his study. In his article appearing in the core of March 2018, he says that the most expensive part of the vehicle system is special space or special lanes for fast cars. It's special space or special lanes that are the most expensive. He says that a greater part of the city's lead line is expected to be in special space. Then he takes into account what happens and goes on, especially in the United States and Canada, that this proportion of special space is generally relatively low, especially in the smallest cities, and that must apply in the area of the capital city of Reykjavík. He says that only if there are long waiting cars in times of stress that are taken into account may only be taken into account, I quote the article, with permission of the president: ...a few billion to complete the special lane for a bus in the capital area. Thus, there are hundreds of billions of people saved, without much control in bus service. Mr. President. Where are the representatives of the classes that make up more part of Reykjavík and make the most of their zeal for this city line? Where is the representative of the Independence Party responsible for government affairs and is responsible for the intention of representing 50 billion on this project and then throwing the Köldnaland into this pit? Where are these agents? Why don't they come here and explain what this is all about? Why do they not explain that this is a budget? Why do they not explain the fact that this is a means of profit and gain? Why not explain that there is something involved in these costs? Why do they not respond favorably to this traffic engineer that says that there are several billion, not billions, but billions, that these can be achieved? We Middle-class people are all for public transportation, but we don't approve of shoveling money into the bottomless pit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u35	President. Thanks for the reminder of the speech class. It is not the result of nothing, for these five minutes have proved to be very fast. Therefore, we might as well make good use of the lesson. That's why I'm going to go straight to the next chapter, which will be discussed in the city of Reykjavík. However, it is necessary to start by reviewing the history of the airport in order to explain why his position should be that he is the partner of the entire population. This airport, as you know, was built by the military force during the war years, and then there was a neighborhood. Many houses either were torn or were moved to set up the airport and be placed in a land that was then owned by the State Hall. So it has happened, as I only come into the following, that the state has been giving this land away. Now, I'm going to review why it is incorrigibly impossible for the state to give land from the city of Reykjavík. After leaving Reykjavík, the airport was delivered to Icelanders, not Reykjavík. He was handed over to the people of the country, and it quickly became an important part of the whole country's transport system, and it could be said that in Iceland an international airport is essential. It is a prerequisite for maintaining domestic flights, which, of course, are especially important in relatively large and scattered countries where we do not have trains like trains in most places. To that end, we need even more than many other countries to rely on this move, international. Then the airport began to play a key role in administrative matters. What I'm saying is that having the airport near the county of Reykjavík's administration created a better connection with the areas around the country. Civil agents, personnel of institutions, etc. You have a clear route to the administration in the capital. Thus, the airport is not only an important feature of transportation, a variety of travel events, an important part of the country's administration, and that the country is governed not only by directives from one point but also by institutions and administrative ladders that can be present anywhere in the country. However, more part of Reykjavík City has long been on the schedule to remove this airport and now has a system plan, as I will explain below. The city's various institutions and the government system have set the goal of working on a different route. Thus city authorities have steadily narrowed the airport from all directions, using different measures. The first time I began to look at it was about 20 years ago. Then I drew a map that I think I showed on television that showed these plans how the city authorities thought to pick up at the airport by different routes, squeeze on it from all sides until they could say, "Behold, there's no place for this airport anymore. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. Now I'm just starting to understand what the city is trying to do, and I pray to the highest degree. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u36	Mr. President. Since I am a member of the city of Reykjavík, I have particularly emphasized the problems we face in the capital area. I've taken it back, and I'd like to take it back, mention the absence of Daffle Roads in the transport programs set up here, because it seems to be a man's intention to set up a swimming track as a special project, and to pay it down with a cut, which, in itself, may be all right. But worse than that, it seems that the mayor of this department, who is temporarily in charge, has a strong desire to try to keep the waterway from becoming a reality. You can see it from both ends of the project, if that's what I can say. Where the waterway should land, in Saturday or through Voga, the land has been sold into the hands of the powerful organizations that are building there. In Grafarvogi, near the crop factory, we are now trying to build - and not just try - a lake that is being built into the roadways of the Sun. It is natural that such a thing should not be done. There seems to be no way to stop these tricks in any way. It is not just that the waterway is necessary to be cohesive with us, and it is not enough that the waterway is a promise to the Kjalnesies when they agreed to become cohesion citizens of the Smokelands, but that there is a delay in the Sunway, and/or a attempt to prevent the introduction of the Sunway, down to one of the rural areas of the capital, i.e. Mosfellstown. As it happens, Mosfellstown is sending in a review of these policy plans. It says, by permission of the president: The proposed motion that transport programmes are virtually no specific protocols involving the Mosfells in one way or another. Then it is attributed to a road that is heavy and double that has to be between two connections inside the town. In fact, funding for the first part of this project has been established, but it will only cover part of the project. So it's just a double portion, making it harder to figure out that you can drive through it, except that Mosfalls have long been worried about the traffic that goes through town. It cannot escape anywhere else because there is no Daffy Road, and there will be no Sunway in the near future. I know we're sitting at the highest. The president has the best understanding of this matter, as it comes from Aclin, and he has to drive through Mosfellsville in both directions, on his way to and from work. If there was a swimming track, I wouldn't talk about it if it was parked in part in a tunnel, it would first add to the flow and the flow here in Reykjavík. Secondly, Mr. President, as I've mentioned before, the Bayway is such a security issue for Smokegarts and those living in the capital area if the area needs to be cleared quickly. Now I see that my time has come way too soon and wait for it. I'm the president of re-exposed to be re-invented.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u37	Mr. President. I only came into the airport earlier and I'm gonna stick with the flight. Here on page 16. 18 In fact, when it comes to the flying system we need to fly in Iceland and, of course, flying over Iceland too, we're making some very positive changes. This article discusses the so - called EGNOOS Service Area. It'll even come. to benefit today from being on the edge of the European Union's territory. The committee's opinion of this subject is well discussed, including based on a memo from the Grouproom, and suggested to speed up the process of examining these matters. However, the committee's opinion shows that in itself it takes two things to make this possible. On one hand, a request by the European Commission, its institutions, has to be made for the improvement of the ELTOS system and then cooperation with neighboring nations. You might also say that there are other sites to be investigated for the system. According to one EGNOOS correction center, the cost will be about 150 million, with a total capacity of 10 to 20 million each year. We've seen bigger numbers on different levels than that. I have to admit, I don't quite understand if it's one station or more that needs to be done. Anyway. At any rate, the government needs to ask for a discussion about getting into the system. And then we need those tests. It then points to the need to make further adjustments in wanting to use this flight guide system. An adjustment in the motion is suggested on page 20. 9, section 11, letters c. 2. There's a sentence, by permission of the President: ▪9. figures will be expressed as follows: There will be a better way to ensure correctation technology through a national satellite history, such as the membership of Iceland into the new EU space programme and/or negotiations with the EU Commission on the enlargement of the EGOS service area to cover Iceland. It's very good to have this in. I'm glad you're here. It is good that adjustments are made in order to be made. However, I draw attention to the fact that we are setting this into a five - year transport program. This is my real business where the government really needs to decide if we're going to build this system. If so, we will consult with the relevant parties, the European Union in this case. If they talk to a positive conclusion that we are going to continue, we need to make investments in our plans. I'm glad they put it in a transport program, Mr. President. I also feel very important that immediately the declaration that the government is about to implement this project, that there are other and better technologies and that are expected accurate and safer, and all of that. We Icelanders can't stay in it. I admit I don't know the complete connection between these equipment and the device used in the Icelandic airport. But we do know that there is a very large and large operation related to the international airports, especially from Europe to North America, to name something. Therefore, it is important that we always prepare well and use our latest technology in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u38	Mr. President. I thank you for reminding me of the many of my discussions, because it's very important. I also remind you that each speech is only five minutes, but it's been 15 as high as the top. President mentioned. There's a lot of need because this is a big deal. One of the biggest matters of the council is a transport program, and here are tens of billions of proposed projects, all of which, of course, are of course, and natural that members of the Parliament have an opinion on how the funds are spent and will bring into play what may be better done and remind of the task that has not been done. The senators have all their emphasis, and they often turn to their own ideals. I also find it interesting how few members, other than members of the Central Party, have participated in this discussion. The comments of those who have come here and expressed themselves about the fact that the Central Party is here having some unconcerned tatapolitic romance are actually not worth answering. To be honest, I'm surprised that the members of the council, the directors, and especially the left green, call it a delay and some carelessness to comment on such important matters. Of course, I am convinced that all the people and the people at home, and those observing, will want to be well aware of the transport conditions in their area. I'm convinced that at the end of the day, people will see that the media's language is very important and completely normal, and especially in view of that, Mr. President, now has to be prioritised in the financial affairs of the state. Large and substantial reductions in the budget are ahead, more than 300 billion due to projects related to the viral epidemic and therefore priorities for the projects here and for transport purposes, to set priorities. The committee has done fine work in this regard, and of course it is thankable. Then the case comes in here and we're 2nd. it is perfectly normal for a person to take his time carefully to review what the majority of the committee suggests in his section, and there are some things that need further discussion. Therefore, we have taken up the challenge of this discussion, and I am surprised that some members of the Parliament have not expressed themselves about transportation. I think it's very strange, to be honest, because it's one of the big things and it's all about us. Traffic safety is important to all of us. Hence, the priorities of the transport programme are very important, and it is primarily about security, that we go to improve transport efficiency where traffic is most important, and then thanks for what is well done. Not to be overlooked is the fact that a road program is in effect, so there is no delay or delay by considering this matter carefully. It is perfectly normal to take a good time to review it. I wanted to mention it specifically because Mr. President correctly stated that this was my 15th discussion of a transportation program. Thank you very much. President for reminding me. It's just a pleasure. I know that here the members of the Central Party have given quite a number of talks on this matter, but they've all been perplexing, indeed, and no one can say that the heads of the Middle Class on the transport program were not relevant. You're right to keep it up. But this may not have been what I was going to talk about, Mr. President, I was going to talk about flying policies and flying services within the country and outside, so I'm going to ask Mr. President to put me back on the rosary. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u39	Mr. President. In a nutshell, we argue on how to exchange limited funds for investments in road and transport in general. I've particularly been thinking about investments in high - quality cultures because I'm a stalwart spokesman for the favors and good public transport. I've only been talking about how all the ideas on the city line are developed and started by quoting an article published by Þórarinn's traffic Hjaltason recently appearing in the core. There, Mr. President, he speaks of the process as being far more like propaganda than the fact that the ideas are presented through reports and other grammatical support. I began my review, as he took in his article an example of the propaganda of the case. Then, the Þórarinn gives a discussion, which is expected to come from the propaganda figures of the dream factory, about the effect of changed travelers, and it will be 20% less in the year 2040. I'll read his article a little more, saying, When the citizens of the city line discuss the change in travel habits, they will have 20% less traffic as well as 2040, which is often said to be an important factor. People who listen to this or read about it tend to feel that the city line will lead to 20% less traffic in the year 2040. This is very subtly propaganda, and many have fallen into the trap of taking down that 20% City line. [...] Given this, at best, the city line will lead to a drive that will be 4◯5% lower than it did in 2040.156. Then, to further point out one - side propaganda in the city line, the Grafstein describes some questionable statements on the city page, the city line. It contains, for example, Ask: What if we skip a city line? I read from Thor's Þórarinn, with the permission of a president, on the website: If no city line is left behind, invest in the road and road system of the capital area up to 2040 for up to 250 billion. (For fully formatted text, see publication) And some time later, the Web site says: "Despite the above investments, the speed of traffic will almost double until 2040. It's on the city line website. As to this, Thorran, a traffic Þórarinn, says: ▪ This is a very misleading presentation. A reader could easily feel that with the city line, most of these 250 billion can be saved, and the speed of traffic increases much less. Not at all! So says traffic engineer. According to his assessment, the city line will only lead to the best traffic in 2040 as well as to the belief that a cheap vehicle system, as he has described in the previous article, could lead to almost the same benefit. In fact, the number 250 billion is far too high, says the Þórarinn, for investments on highways in the region, even if the Sunway is expected. So many were words. My time is almost over, and I'd like to ask Mr. President to put me back on the rosary. In the next talk, I will continue to take up the road engineer's tips on propaganda production on a city line. And you wonder, " Why is this the way it is administered? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u40	Mr. President. We will discuss two suggestions for interpretation, a five - year transport plan, and a 15 - year transport program. There has been a small point, especially in the front of the discussion, Mr. President, that it was found that the members of the Central Party were discussing a so - called city line. This indicates that more part of the environment and transport committee is covered on the city line. I believe the council is responsible for the first round. the matter of the council itself. In the future. has been treated on a committee. There have been reports, visitors, and committees, one or more. Then, for the sake of the matter itself, the committees, and the reviews that have been received. More than half of the committee's list points to a city line called the Convention, on page 18. 16◯17. I believe that it is perfectly permitted to discuss this subject from a judicial standpoint. What is this discussion about a city line? It may not be the least of all about responsible management of government money. What we have here is that in the related body of Parliamentary decrees that lie next to us, the state intends to place tens of billions, more than 49.6 billion, for this work. This is the largest single achievement seen in all this problem, i.e. in the two transport programmes, between the age of five and the age of 15, and in the primary elements that are behind it, which are the bill for the establishment of a public body and a bill that contributes to the cooperation of public bodies and private transport projects. This is what it's all about. For our Middle Class, Mr. President, more than once, attention has been given to an article on the subject of an expert, a transportation engineer who also has additional training in the field of business at a master's level, and he studied his engineering in two colleges in two countries. It is not difficult to understand the engineer's language because he explains his language in a very simple way. He runs that the most expensive part of the urban vehicle system is the special space or the special lanes for the fast cars that surface the traffic in this city line. In this country, the author assumes that a greater part of the city's lead line will be in special space. Then he takes an example from the United States and Canada. He says that the combined length of a bus ride with a special - lane is not really great, especially in the smallest cities, and this would apply in part to Reykjavík. In view of this, says one author, it takes only a few billion people to complete the crime scene in the capital area. This will save a few dozen billion people without the time to download a bus's service. V.E.G. President. Where are the answers to this article? How can you maintain this matter without at least to explain what that is in the article that cannot be fulfilled. It is only very simple that so much should go to this driving space or these special parts and may be less aware of the author's judgment and is smaller than the role models he mentioned in his article. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u41	V.E.G. President. It is fine to continue with what I was discussing in the earlier talk, and that is, in particular, public transportation and flight, and to put it in context of the money to the city line and further whether it is a good priority for financial management. If you go through the long-term transport programme, which I like to call, you can find a smudge that suggests that there is a cumulative need for maintenance and implementation in the national system, with the international system of flights, after the last few years of maintenance. The same long-term program speaks of the service at the airport at this base of the Internet being similar to what has been being done, and then there may be some things I'm worried about, with the permission of a president, but the plan says: ◯... with advance advance changes in the course of other transport. I'll stick around for a second. Is this to be said that the city line, where the target cost is good, means 50 billion plus and only 4% of the current value, is only 4% of the bus use in the capital area, is classified as transport reform in the period? Can it be said, then, that it affects the maintenance of aerospace? And then, of course, I'm worried about the little airports I talked about earlier because I think it's pretty safe for Dr. Cheflavík, Akureyri, now I can't tell Reykjavík because it's not clear about that airport, and I think I'm living at the LZ right now. Is it really blessed by the government by saying such things, and I'm going to repeat the words, by permission of President, that foremenage changes in the course of other transport reforms during the period may delay the maintenance that is truly necessary at my airports in a so-called foundation? We heard in a fine speech the other day that there were 4% who took advantage of public transportation in the capital area, but for the same transport to depend on 40% use. And I've mentioned in the past that I don't feel too tired to go through a variety of ways to get more people to use public transportation. I've mentioned it's free to go to Akureyri. You might think so, for example. Since we have a large workplace downtown, as it is called, that perhaps some people could get free on the bus on the way to work and from work, and see what it would bring. But it's getting a little complicated, and as you read further, you start to be even more concerned that everyone in the country will just sit behind because we're going to serve the 4% who use public transportation today. I don't think it's the right priorities, and I'll continue this thread for the next talk and ask the president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u42	V.E.G. President. In this talk, I'd like to stay five minutes west on the West. I printed in detail the comments of the Fourth Western Union on transport and transport, which are very well developed, and I would like to intervene in its individual sentences, with the permission of the president: If governments are to promote land - based settlements, then the International Assembly is to be established, with a regional plan and in a government contract. To cope with long - term negative development, however, much effort is needed. Governments have used specific measures during the past few decades by promoting big business development and using other programmes, such as transport programs, to support such projects. As far as the whole of Western Europe is concerned, more than 30 years have been affected by economic collapses, along with a steady decrease in population size, as well as natural disasters. The decrease in population from rural population ranges from 25 to 45%, and age combinations have changed substantially for the worse. Certainly, the government's specialized intervention has been infested over the years to cope with this problem, but not with the efforts of major projects, thus not producing as much results as expected. It must now be estimated that the national part will be corrected, but with less direct interventions than has been done. This points to the fact that in the last five years, negative urban development in the West has finally been slowed. Thus, on the south side of the West, there is a dramatic improvement in the north of the West and in the leek of Rholah. In this change, a part of fish farming is one of the most important things to do than tourism, fishing, and industry follow. On the beach, however, the trend continues to be negative. A reduction in sheep farms thus has a significant effect on the worse as well as the difficulties in the fishing road. That sounds familiar to me, and I talked about it in a speech yesterday as much as it changed on the West. Especially on the south side of the West, as I could see, where the fish fire has come in with a tremendous force and changed the development of their cohesion for the better. But the neck of a bottle on transportation is still there. In my speech, I spoke about the road through the Gufldalian army, and then there are roads between the places of Bilruddal, Tullies, and Patrekfjords as they are. Despite having been tied to a worn - out stroke, winters are unable to do so. It is a cry for politics to come in strong and to give more injections in this place, in view of the principle of building big business and transportation there. In other words, the Western world has become a major product of national wealth, and it has always been. But much has been added, especially by salmon farming. At that time, transport is out of control, and other infrastructures are also called after more services because of increasing population growth. I've allowed myself to say that it's kind of a luxury problem. But transportation is not a luxury problem. They are a serious problem. It's going to have to make a lot better. V.E.G. President. I'm asking to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u43	Mr. President. At the end of my final talk, I was beginning to discuss how the majority of the city council and other parts have systematically planned the elimination of the Watermur airport. I mentioned that almost 20 years ago, it was clear that the city was headed for what was coming. Then I drew up a map that showed how the airport would be picked from all directions to gradually squeeze it, to take one piece here, and another, for various reasons, until it was said: "There is no place for the airport, and he has to go. Then, in effect, the city has worked toward this goal by setting up the land repeatedly and forcing various meeting laws on the airport, often on the grounds that its presence is being guaranteed for a certain time. The government has then experienced that it would be better to make some kind of agreement with the city if it ensured a minimum time in which there would be some certainty about the airport. But then the city always walks on. It is very strange what the city has to do with its objective in view of the fact that, repeatedly, the vast majority of the country's inhabitants are in favor of the airport in the watermy, and they consider it important. In fact, some years ago a vote was held; it is probably high to 20, but it was a vote for this matter in Reykjavík, Mr. President, a vote among the Smokers. At that vote, the vast majority of the city's inhabitants were following the level of the airport in their place so that the case should have been settled. But no, it was continued, by these methods I've described, trying to get the airport out. One agreement replaces another in which the State tries to create some certainty for a few years, after which the city, or city authorities, will be on course. Thus, an agreement was made in 2013 to ensure the level of airport to 2022 at least, i.e. creating security, a certainty, for the time against man's looking at other airport options. This was to be an agreement in order to end all these meeting plans in Reykjavík, and mine knows to show the obvious, that the best possible option is watermy. In fact, I had to agree to sign that contract on the condition that it would take a few things out, especially plans to decommission the so - called emergency course and put off private and teaching flights. I said, "I'll sign if these things are taken out." At that time, the items were taken out of the agreement, which in secret signed another agreement between the Ministry and the mayor, where this was added again. It is natural below all caves but shows how determined the authorities' will be in this matter. Sadly, this agreement to end all the meeting laws with the city and to get some certainty about it was not the last. I don't have time to trace it until the next talk, so I pray to the highest degree. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u44	Mr. President. The Hilmar Þór Björnsson, architect, is running a beautiful web he calls Arkitetectur, organization, and local beauty. In the beginning of June 2, June, issue, he published an article on the site entitled The City Line for Public Presentation. He says in the beginning of this article, with the permission of a president: ▪ It is now 15 years ago that Pétur H. A year's Ármannsson architect proposed his proposal for a city line in Reykjavík. This was a very well - supported idea that was in perfect harmony with the needs of Reykjavík and its natural development for over 80 years. The idea was so grown that it could not be overlooked. When the main organization of Reykjavík was revised and AR20102030 was released, Pétur's idea was correctly in it and was confirmed. Then, in a short time, we are living in a period of 101⁄215 years. From the platform of this article, you may not see it, but a picture in this article shows that the city line of the son of Pétur H. The Ármannsson of Man is basically from the city of Reykjavík up to the city line of Köldum. She lies outside in the Valley of Saturday and goes up towards the Grafarvogur and to the Felt. Þór's Hilmar says, with permission from the President: ▪ An idea was drawn there to make Reykjavík a strong, dense, and functional, linear city. Quite something that had been waiting for. This was welcomed, for instance, by a typical form of English - what is called, and I don't have a right to work an idea. He says that he was delighted and particularly supportive, and he wrote articles on this matter as well as on the city line when the change of organization was made near this line. Þór's Hilmar says, with permission from the President: ▪ I thought that this city line of Peter would be in full swing from the Saviour Square into Scenario within three or four years and would be completed by 2020. It was simple, necessary, and practical except being completely undisputed. There were no lions in the road, but even though it was unbelievable, it didn't work out. The city's organization in Reykjavík did not pay sufficient attention to the situation. Instead, this simple logical idea blew out and became enormous. It grew tenfold in size and grew to such an extent that society could not control it and had to bring the State into existence. A harbor was built without any planning for the city line. The Halfway was rebuilt without expected City Line, etc. I was afraid that nothing would come of this, and it was a big disappointment. I don't know what happened, but it was like a fucking cripple bitch running into it. Involuntary rural communities in the edge of the capital area, people saw an opportunity to correct organizational errors by stretching the city line from about 60 to nearly ten times. Involuntary perimeters are now to be rescued by the line rather than attack the root of the problem and balance the traffic burden on the transport system with known organizational instruments. The brutal plot to locate the University of Reykjavík in a swamp without any connection with the city web is now to be fixed by the City Line. And so that this idea can be sold, it is kept above Fos sog and then the way through plain streets in Kópavogi to Hamburg. And in order to strengthen the ◯ passenger base on this line, a high structure in the Kárisnes and an even further development is planned for the old Kopavogstown. You ask yourself, " Why aren't tunnels drilled underhills and lines connected with old Hafnarfjörður roads so that they are in historical connection with the structure to the south? ' Or are we moving forward east of Great Way, then south of mall, past the mall, City Hospital, past the town center of Kopavogs and Garville, south of Hafnarfjordur? He will continue in this article, this fine man, Hilmar Þór Björnsson. I see, Mr. President, that I can't get any further into this reading, but I intend to keep him in my next speech because this article is truly part of the discussion and would have been better published earlier. I'm waiting for the highest. President of putting me back on the rosary because I didn't have time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u45	V.E.G. President. I'm going to enter one of the subjects that was pointed out to me, and I didn't necessarily want to talk about. There are several factors listed in the National Association for Transportation, and there are still other reports on the same subject, and there are two to flight, on the one hand Alexander's airport and the other toll on the United States Aggressor, and, of course, I agree to comment on both. What I would like to point out here is that it is required by the Association of Civil Societys in the Northern West that Alexander's airport be defined into the base of the airport. There's no such thing as making any changes. There's no change proposal about it, or I can't at least find a place, I'm going to have a little warning about it, maybe I've misreaded it, but I can't see that there's anything to do with that urgent wish in any way. On page 18. 19 In a committee magazine, you may wonder about the groups of pilots. There's two airports in the text of a strategy field, and I rest in my mind that these are speculations about the possible class of airports, and there's a sheep early airport or Alexander's airport and the Fleet Airport, which is less important. I think it's very special if this is to be done in the Union of the North-West, and the Fourth Amendment of the Western Union that I expect to have backed up the Fleet Airport, even though I haven't quite gotten involved in it, let's just talk about the Westerns; if that's the case with this airport in some legal field, it's probably ridiculous. The majority of the committee's proposals should have assumed that these airports would be transferred into the definition of the base net. We don't know if this is going to be done for the work being done, to redefine, but it's implied that this may be one of the categories. This would have to be much clearer and transferred into the adjustment arrangement. That I have to come into it, after having received this indication, that of course, it is surprising - in view of the fact that pilots in general, and those in this business, so to speak, many would agree that one of the best airports in the country is just Alexander's airport - that there is no greater ambition in the neighbors of the Earth's Tasturus to build up this airport as a reserve airport for Ar State, for the Island Island Island. The next final airport for that area is either in Eglsés, or in Keflavík, or Reykjavík. If we look at the pagans that must be considered if passengers are to be taken between positions, there is no room for accurate research on these possibilities. It's one and a half hours from a sheep's airport to Akureyri if passengers have to land there. It's three or four hours south of Reykjavík with a passenger if you can't land there. There are four or five hours left in Cheflavík, instead of running people six or eight hours away from the modern - day reserve airports. At this point, everyone would make better, and there is no need to break up the construction of other reserve airports, for if you look back, the use of these airports will increase, and they're all needed. In our vast country and large island, there is a need for a good airport, not to mention our role as a safety zone between the West and the North, between Europe and North America, which can also be considered important. We have also seen that when planes are unable to land at Keflavík, they have landed in Scotland or in the Egls, and I repeat that it is important to build an Egressary Airport, we must not beat anything off, from which there has been a direct international flight and may, of course, continue. But I find it very special that the committee does not accept this request in a more decisive way, it is a perfunctory statement that does not serve the purpose required by those who gave reviews on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u46	Mr. President. I haven't had much time to talk about the city line. On the other hand, many members of the board have complained that we are discussing it a lot. I have simply spent my time discussing transportation, especially in the South Sea, and it is perfectly normal in the light of what is here under discussion, a transport program, that members of Congress come into the focus of their district. I'm just going to step in on the affairs of the city line, Mr. President, because it's a big deal and a big deal and a lot of money. This is suggested, and in another legal bill that attracts the so - called stock agreement between the state and the local community in the capital area, to place a lot of money on this one task as a city line. We in the Middle East have said so, and I told my committee that we were in favor of these transport issues in the capital area, i.e. has come a course to take in important projects. Our nose, for example, is a footway, especially a bicycle path, and we take in an eco-friendly way, such as pedestrians. However, we cannot accept the city line for various reasons that we have discussed in our talks. And other members of the Central Party have. When we discuss the city line, I feel that it is necessary to consult a specialist list and that the discussion is not exactly one - sided, as the city of Reykjavík has truly been. There's only one-sided debate that this is a very good project that has to go through. And government funds are to be paid 105 out of 120 billion. It is all too easy to recommend large projects when you do not have to pay them yourself, as is true in the city of Reykjavík. This is so that it is perfectly normal for both sides to be examined, benefits, and defects of the project. Unfortunately, only one-sided lawsuit by the city's authorities has been involved in the benefits of this construction. This structure is considerable and costly, so it is reasonable for humans to consult experts who may have some other opinion and with the eyes of their knowledge and expertise in organizational matters. It is perfectly normal to turn to them, and we do so in other matters. We will, for example. When it comes to financial matters. A financial committee seeks expert opinion, e.g. Policy and financial policy evaluations, etc. This will include those who are experts in that field, who are very well versed in matters, etc. This should, of course, be true when it comes to the city line, to listen to the opinion of those who are at the same time disagreed, and to do not agree with the road being made by the city city of Reykjavík. I'd like to mention Dr. Trausti Valsson, who is an Organizer, architect and professor of planning at Iceland's University of University, a great man who has contributed much planning in Iceland in his long history as a scholar in this area at the University of Iceland. He wrote an article along with Þórarinn Hjaltason, a traffic engineer who has been greatly quoted in this discussion. The Þórarinn himself wrote an article on the core that has been quoted. But Dr. Trausti Valsson and the Þórarinn sent a message on the city line in 2017, reminds me, since they are on the line that in the existing program there may be a very questionable transport system. And then I'm talking about a city line. I'm just beginning with this, Mr. President, and then I'll have to quit because of the time. [[The president calls.]] I wish to be put back on the rosary, since I can take a closer look at what dr. Trausti Valsson og the Þórarinn Einar Einarsson have said about these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u47	Mr. President. I'd like to make sure that what has been called a urban line is here on the agenda and in the discussion of the transport programme as a result of the review of more part of the Environment and Transport Committee. As noted, a subsequent discussion is presented as a basis for discussion. discuss matters after they have been discussed in committees. Mr. President. I want to advertise for what? People of the Independence Party and of the Habitat. Parliaments from the classes that make up the greater part of Reykjavík to discuss the city line at this point. This is because a city line is all over the biggest project in the sight of transportation. Thus, the bill on the program for this meeting, which is, of course, a closely related transport program, for the establishment of an official community, shows that a government fund is expected to provide 49.6 billion for the work called a city line. It's a matter of responsible management of the estate. It has been noted that a specialist, a transportation engineer, has described this and is logical in an article that I have considered, including the following: in my last talk, to pay for public transportation - which is, of course, a objective that we in the Central Group support, we don't care whether it's called a city line or something else - you have to spend only a few billion to achieve the goals you are seeking to reach, instead of spending 50 billion and throwing the Köldnalands on top of this pit. Mr. President. I'll advertise for what? To discuss these matters, members of the council from these categories. Why do they want to keep 50 billion if the same goal can be achieved by several billion people? I'll advertise them to discuss the cost plans and boundaries of it. I'll advertise for this shit. Councilmen to discuss interest calculations in the project. I'll advertise these senators to discuss how this project affects other traffic. Many people need their job because they drive around the city. Consider all the driving that is being carried out to prepare by taxis for the benefit of the elderly and the disabled. They are not expected to travel with a city line. Consider a home service that is a very important task for elderly ones, as well as the case of micropigs, the possibility of being in their homes as far as possible while they can. There are a lot of people who go from house to house to people, e.g. Nurses and physical therapists. Also, food shipments go to people, and there are those who do social services. These people are not expected to travel through the city line. I'd like to have a discussion about this. I would also like to have a discussion about the prospects that the use of a city line will leave the 4% that we've been swindling in, as it were. paritaprevir Hjaltason Gautiça referred to here. The use of public transportation has been stuck in this same 4% during the eight or nine years between measurements. Mr. President. I have so much to ask to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u48	Mr. President. I continue to discuss ideas about the city line and its presentation, and I have several times quoted a article by Thorrinç Þórarinn Hjaltason recently appearing in the core, which says that the formation of a city line is marked by one - sided, extreme propaganda. I have taken a few examples here in the last two, three of my talks from his article in which he gives an example of the propaganda of the case. It continues to Þorsteinn the creation of the mayor's propaganda matrons and dream factories to show how self - destructive automobiles will be affected. The Others, by permission of the presidentÞórarinn cite the city page: ▪ In answer to the question of the question, Will self - exhausted cars make the city line unnecessary?, is this part of the answer: ▪ Studies indicate that without the greater public transportation, car traffic is greatly increasing with self - driving cars. Thus, they will not solve the problems we face in the years to come. Þorsteinn says so, by permission of the President: There are very different opinions about the effects of self - driving cars on traffic volumes. Some feel that traffic will increase because more people have the opportunity to travel with a car. Others feel that traffic will be reduced because self - driving taxis or ◯ shuttles will become popular and encourage harmonization. Let that be the case in this discussion. The key point is that this response is - the one that is given on the city's web - at least. We're talking about millions of cities with powerful public transportation, but it's definitely not relevant to the capital area where the bus object is only 4% of all roads. Then he discussed ideas about the mayor's remuneration of traffic and cites examples of how unpopular this fee is, for example. In Stavanger, Norway, saying that remuneration may be justified in millions of cities, but at the same time it has to be high, Mr. President, is intended to reduce traffic to some extent. Then I'll reread this article from Þorsteinn, by permission of a president: Subsidies are said to be the most unpopular fees, for high wages were strongly objected to the Stavanger area [...] the mayor of Reykjavík recently said that roads were common in foreign cities. That may be possible. to prove that the city's city's city roads are infringements, but inflation is rare simply because it is politically difficult to get them on. The tents must be high in order to reduce road pressure to some extent. Thus, if there is to be a significant reduction in traffic loads in the situation in Reykjavík and the capital area, these remunerations, which the mayor's department now calls for, must be high. Then I continue to read from the President's article, Þorsteinn's permission: ▪ In some millions of cities, where traffic conditions are very difficult, it is, in effect, well at ease. Stavger is one of the few smaller cities that pay their fees. Even so, they were strongly objected. In other words, we are going the same way. We're going to go the same way millions of cities, come on tats to steer round in public transportation, force the drivers to leave cars at home. This requires high remuneration and we are going a way that millions of cities are going, not less cities like the capital area. One example is Stavanger, and these charges are strongly objected to there. We know what hope we have, so there is good reason for us to take this time to direct people to it and to endeavor to open the eyes of people in the capital area and in the country all the things to come, where it is estimated to be worth billions of dollars on this project. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u49	V.E.G. President. I'm going to go on where I finished my case earlier, but I ended up saying things were going to turn out, and that's what they are. Let us assume that the city's urban budget will be 50 billion, but it will yet be run by the devices. I'd just like to mention the exhibition that's in City Hall right here on the street, which I went and looked at. It's a great show, and if things were a little different, it could really work. The point is, though, that the idea is good, it is entirely unrealistic. To me, it's the opening point where we all the taxpayers in the country are going to pay 50 billion for a transport idea that only 4% uses. I'd like to ask: At what cost? What, then, do the people need to offer up? What exactly are they ready to sacrifice? During the short time I've been at the council, I've often experienced it, meetings with rural and national, economist and public, normal people, that everyone is grateful for every cent they get. The most crystals are in the budget set up for the Akureyri airport, in the airports, and in the design at a new airport or a maintenance center, and in the money to repair a semitonous runway at the Egls. What is the cost of taking from 50 billion and letting another one be ignored? I can't support it at all. Also stated in the transport program, and then I'm talking about the long - term plan, that it's how it is possible to meet the requirements of two international airports on the southwest corner. That's all right, but it says, and we're still discussing the long-term plan, the future plan, with President's permission: ▪ Among other things, consider whether it is acceptable to build up in the Washasse all - sided national and auxiliary airports. Nevertheless, it is evident that the Cheflavíus airport will be the main portal of international flight in the predictable future. We have heard a number of people who know the most about flight and safety of an airline say that therapeutic action is the last option. Not long ago, however, the transportation council ordered a team, and a press conference was held. At that meeting, the mayor made this note, with president's permission: ▪ It has also been a great source of strength for all key interests to have been members of the committee and involved in the case. The unofficial objective of the Committee was to be the last level committee. I have high hopes that it might have worked. Now, there is a basis for making clear policy, starting research into the new airport scene at the Washingo test. In other words, the plan is to remove the airport from Watermelon and move it to the shoal of which everyone who knows has said to be the least of all and the impossible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u50	V.E.G. President. At the beginning of my speech, I'd like to make a decision, given the debate. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttir's son Proppér this morning said that we in the Central Group were discussing the city line of transportation, but there was no mention of the city line in the transport program, on page 6. 16 and 17 of the Committee to More Part of the Environment and Transport Committee are exactly referred to as a city line, so to speak. In fact, this was shown in the question of why. paritaprevir Ólafur, son of Ísleifsson, mentioned earlier, it is proper to make sure that the city line is discussed in a transport program and that the members of the committee are listed on page 20. 16 and 17. In this talk, I will continue talking about transportation and employment, but especially transportation, on the West. I mentioned points contained in a document from the Western Union that clearly highlight what I've been talking about in speeches, how much it slows transport when planning the environment, environmental protection and natural protection that I'm fully worth, however, delays transportation, lawsuits, and so on. This is shown by their opinion, which is very well written by the president's permission: While the UN feels that this financial frame can be won, it is possible to speed up the task. The requested contact points out that the projects are separated, and experience has shown that funding has been frozen inside, including ... becauseof environmental issues. Thus, financial resources have been available but cannot be used and are not fully affected by such a waiting road system. The fourth contact would like to suggest a change in this approach. So it is a long text of how it wants to change the approach of projects, in view of the possibility that projects may be delayed by environmental considerations. This section has been cauterized over the years and decades that projects that have been established have been stopped because of environmental charges. Is the main road to the Gufldalian countryside, a forest route that has been financed, but the funds have not been used because it cannot be started. The fourth contact offers suggestions on how to use the funding for other non-environmental projects while settling these issues. It's amazing that we are in this reality. I still want to make this decision that when we discuss transport, environment, and environmental matters that are, of course, discussed, that community and community protection are discussed together so that projects in all transport programmes can be carried out when they are prepared. Transport issues are not just determined in an isolated way, and then environmental agreements and implementations may be delayed for ten, twenty years because of environmental issues. I strongly emphasize that this will be adjusted in preparation for transport projects. V.E.G. President. I've only just started this fine chapter and I wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u51	Mr. President. I was talking about Reykjavíkur Airport, and I started to trace the agreements the state has made with the city. In most cases, this has been justified by the need to minimize any uncertainty about the airport to some year. Therefore, the state has repeatedly agreed with the city about something and other regarding the observations of possible airport sites and such. Of course, it is completely intolerable for the aircraft and, in fact, all flights within the country, that are constantly maintained by uncertainty about the future of the Aviary Airport in the Hydromes. The work there can hardly exist as long as uncertainty exists, let alone grow and thrive. As a result, the state has been forced, or likely considered in some cases that it was forced to take some withdrawals with the city to buy every few years a little assurance of the future activity in the Hydrosm. I had mentioned one such test from 2013, and the way the city used outright fraud from my hometown, I soon laid down the road of emergency. However, there have been more treaties, and in fact in 2013 another agreement was signed between the representatives of the State and the city of Reykjavík, i.e. Between the members of the United States, then secretary of finance, and then the head of the city was likely at the time, the current mayor of Reykjavík, an agreement that the state would deliver the land of Reykjavík from the airport. The city paid something for, not much, but the government was to take part in the income that would be sold for property and was specifically agreed on how it would be done. It's been betrayed, too, apparently. The city has not stood by this agreement, nor has it seen what the government will eventually get for that land. But this may not be the main point, but it may have been that the government has given itself to a country - controlled airport, as I did here in the last non - national speech, because it was under an airport given to the people for possession and authority and, of course, serves the whole nation, Smokey but also the inhabitants of other parts of the country. This was not completed in 2013, for the latest and worst agreement is expected, at least According to the mayor, the airport is leaving. The leak was just dried up at the latest agreement when the mayor declared that it was a travel minister who signed the trip to Reykjavík's airport and spoke specifically of the Washing Land. The whale test option had been examined earlier, and they concluded that Washingahuun was not suitable for the city of Reykjavík. But in that respect, the people refused to say as much as anyone, and again they agreed to look at the Washinghame, if not, as the mayor claims, directly assume. In any case, the mayor was absolutely clear that the secretary of transportation had signed a contract that would be left at Reykjavík's airport. Thus, there is no way to say that the airport was destroyed or reduced for some time, on the contrary. This new agreement, the worst agreement ever made on the state of the city of Reykjavík airport, is only promoting and strengthening the uncertainty of the airport. And who will be ready to go to some structure on an airport claiming that the State has agreed to go?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u52	Mr. President. In my last speech, I made a fine report from June 2, by Hilmar Þór Björnsson, which describes the 15 - year - old suggestion of the architect's Ármannsson Pétur H.. He also displays a picture of the first phase a man is to take in from this city line, which many of us now do not know what is. It is a route from the Cape Altaics and south of Hamraborg, Kópavogi. A hundred miles, Mr. President. There are 25 stations along the way. It might be worth the experiment, and you could do it yourself, driving that way, stopping 25 times, and seeing how long it's going. That fine man, Hilmar Þór Björnsson, wrote in this article the same worry that I have previously described. Now, Mr. President, we understand that once you've escaped with a eraser for the photos that have appeared to be bold for train tracks, there seems to be a vehicle waiting for a bus that looks like a bus on steroids, i.e. A bus with maybe two joints. It's not the traditional buses we're used to from traffic in Reykjavík using probe, Mr. President, are 40 feet [12 m] long, and we weigh 20 tons. If it is true that the city line cars may be 2.5 times larger, they are likely to reach an estimated 15 feet [15, 16 m] in length and some 30, 40 tons in weight. I wondered about this because from this drawing to judge the wagons to drive by Savile Street, Mr. President. And they're supposed to drive a Humvee Road. They're supposed to drive over the bridge on the Wagon Road, over the Seven. Not that I have a bigger test on driving, but I'm not, but I'm wondering, Mr. President, how are you going to get the turn off Savile Street, into a drive-in road, and back, in a car that may weigh maybe 16 meters and 40 tons? I'm just asking. I'm also asking, because now the bridge on Scotland Road, beautiful she is to her own years, doesn't this huge weight call for support on these means? Then Hilmar Þór Björnsson's concern is the same as I have planned for the southern end of the first prisoner, when the bridge is built over the bull such as was once to be for bicycle and walking but is now for bicycle, walking, and buses. Now I'm still watching this size driving, Mr. President. According to first line, they are scheduled to travel some 60 years old streets in Kopavogi. There's no room for them to grow, no room for braking. There are child schools on either side of these streets. It is a children's school on both sides of the cityholtway, and then there's a child school at Diglin Road, in fact, a school of education, where these creatures are supposed to pass over. Now you have been told that the vehicle should travel at a considerable rate to shorten travel time. This is a concern, Mr. President. I can't go any further because of lack of time, so I have to pray to the highest level. President of putting me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u53	V.E.G. President. I'm just going through these roads, which are listed on page 5. 7 About stock routes and so on in the capital area. Part of the procedure depends on a so - called transport contract. I don't feel quite clear whether these projects will be rushed or late or something. Most important, if it is part of the fact that rural society has its organizational affairs in order for transportation, to prevent the road, it is important that this be in there. I'm here to celebrate the suggestion that the committee make a suggestion to bring Kyrsuvíkíkíkíkík, Whalená, during the first season of the strategy. I think it's important not to be held back. Then I would like to mention that on page 19. 8 It says that Langatanga's Lake Road (Shaftway) did not complete projects planned for 2019, I think I was. This year's budget is suggested by the Commission but nothing in 2021, yet it is still said that it is important to provide financial support in that year. I wondered if it's the thought of taking it up specifically and moving it a divine option, and at the same time, why isn't the adjustment proposed to improve the budget of 2021, because it's changing numbers right up to 2023, and that's all because of a city line. You wonder, " Is the reason why I can't put more money on this road to the future a great need for money because of the city line? ' I told earlier today that I had planned on all my talks to connect the city line into the work I'm going to discuss here. Actually, I forgot about it in two last talks, where I was talking about airports. I'm gonna make it right. It is important to know that it is important to consider all possibilities for the unforeseen external expenses of the state when it comes to this project called by a fine senator the mayor's dream factory in Reykjavík. Well, I'm saying that the mayor's case is out of his mind and that some of the smaller parts have kept it up well in the air. I'm only concerned about how poor this is in the past, these issues listed in the modified format of the more part, and of them, e.g. on the Langatanga Sea Route (Sarah Road), mentioned here. Of course, if they have a misunderstanding at this point, it would be good for more part to come up and correct it. There has been no question about the answer here, whether it is about this subject or not. It has been complained that members of Parliament do not discuss the road in a transport program merely. I don't understand how it's relevant to other members of the council when there are chapters here that are important. I'll give you a chapter on the transportation contract and the cooperation projects. We've been talking about air travel, some people come into the airport and the harbors. It is important to realize that the transport program not only handles individual tasks in individual budgets but also covers the entire budget. It's what we're worried about, many members of Congress, that the entire payment is being compromised by a city line.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u54	Mr. President. I was starting my last talk when the time was out, and I was starting to cover the city line. It is considered only in the leading section's committee program, as we have seen, so some members of the management team are not correct in saying that the city line is some of the secondary factors in this discussion. It's important, because it's the wealth that the government fund has to put out of, about 50 billion bucks. I specifically mentioned the importance of listening to experts in these matters, traffic experts, organizational matters, etc., and getting their opinion on this project. It is a controversial and controversial presentation of the major part of Reykjavík, all of it has been one way, that this is a very necessary and important project, and it is really good in all places, as the mayor's section shows. I mentioned that one of our chief strategist Dr. Trausti Valsson has expressed himself about these plans. Trausti is an architect, an architect and professor of strategy at the University of Iceland. He and Þórarinn Hjaltason, a traffic engineer quoted in this discussion, sent a letter to the mayor in Hafnarfjörður, which included eight points on a city line that they believe would require further consideration. First, they point out that the basic cost of building special lanes and special streets for the urban line is to be expected - the city line is bus, the city line is not a speed train by the tea, as some think, which is a naturally fancy transportation ethic. This is not the case, these are buses that will be driven by special traffic and will not be subject to delay of another traffic. That's the way it feels. The experts suggest that the target cost for building special - lanes and special streets for fast cars is expected to be 70 billion dollars. To the year 2040, or 3 billion K. every year. 3 billion is now just a considerable amount of money. This is comparable to the annual budget for new highways and the capital area for the last few decades. However, it had been much smaller in the past ten years. In addition, in his letter to the mayor of Hafnarfjörður, they point out that the bus's travel rate doubles, meaning that the number of vehicles on the road doubles, as well as the weight of fast cars. This will mean that the bus's operating hall will double as far as today's business is concerned. Dr. Trausti Valsson and Þórarinn Lótttir Hjaltason þess a high degree of doubt that the ratio of the private car declines from 76% to 58% while the bus stock is leaving 4% to 12%, as planned. I think it's a very reasonable approach, Mr. President, because the mayor's share has placed considerable funds in it and in cooperation with the State Fund, the secretary of transportation, trying to increase the number of people using the bus, but it hasn't worked out. It is experience that we must look at, too. These experts simply say that there is an unscrupulous conclusion that there is a 4% increase to 12%, as planned. Mr. President. I see time is up. That is a very short time for every talk. I'm going to continue with this case and wish to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u55	Mr. President. During my final talk, I encouraged him. Councilmen of the Independence Party, as well as members of the members of the House of Independence, appointing a greater part in the city of Reykjavík to make a total of this. I have a particular interest in talking to independents - who have described their position in the political sector that they care for the interests of the state and want to treat public funds well - about the intentions of the city, especially about the city line. I believe that in the case of construction independence, I do not talk about projects running at tens of billions of dollars, as is expected to be at least 50 billion - and that even if it is claimed by responsible authorities and significant that the same goals for much less money can be achieved, instead of perhaps 50 billion at the very least - that such projects require practical strategies. For one thing, there needs to be a realistic projection plan, and it needs to set up a realistic budget. The cost plan, Mr. President, must follow possible distances from costs and analysis of factors that could lead to costs beyond the expected cost. Of course, independence is understood. They realize that prior to implementing such projects, money needs to be made, and plans for the use of the designated procedure need to be established. A few of them. Meanwhile, I've heard of this famous 4% bus use. Despite effort, the proportion has remained largely constant. Hv. Birgir Þórarinsson, who was sitting next to me in a talk, described it, as if so many others have done, that the ideas of bringing it to a proportion of 8 to 12 percent were completely unrealistic. Mr. President. It's hardly the only thing. The members of the Independence Party, on the one hand, and on the other. In fact, members of state with which they have used themselves for the city line - we know that members of the Independence Party in nearby rural areas are using themselves in that way, at least Most of them - they're not available to make a total of it. I might understand why. Councilmen who take the most part in Reykjavíkurburg do not have a particular interest in discussing such things as cost and profit and so on. But there are things that are close to the Independence Party. As a matter of fact, I believe that the exorbitant should have a clear view of these things. Don't lack that category close to us to form a business organization. It is strange, however, that this class appears just like a left platoon in the mayor's town and does not seem to have any vertebrae to counteract the seemingly massiveness of the city. Mr. President. I'm far from finished with what I was going to go over here, and I'm asking to be put on the rosary one more time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u56	V.E.G. President. I discussed a committee earlier designed to explore a future airport advantage for an internal flight center. This was to be the last committee established on that matter. The best option, in the opinion of the mayor of Reykjavík, was that the national - international center would be taken to Whale test. I'd like to roll up one point. In most cases, international flights through the city of Reykjavík have been to Greenland, and I'm giving myself that it is in that number, when it was spoken of as a number of arrivals and departures in Reykjavík, there is 39,000. I make it clear that these too are the individuals who have received hospital service at the hospital. So we can ask ourselves, " Is it the best option, whether it is closer to using other airports and other hospitals? ' Then we can assume that there were nearly 12,000 arrived and disfellowshipped passengers in the international airport in Akureyri and nearly 4,000 at the Egls. For those 4,000 passengers, I believe that in my opinion, I am at Lagils, where they live. We would like to see the country as a whole. That, when we discuss the priorities of money, it is good to put it again and again in line with the 50 billion that are going into the 4% that are now using public transportation in the capital area. I'd like to point out the comments from the Union Society in the East, which says, with the permission of a president: THESSA insists on increasing air travel to and out of Iceland requires that the government provide sufficient funding for building up so that the Lavilion court meets the requirements for increased service levels, security due to potential natural disasters and the role of the field as a reserve airport. Special attention must be made on a runway along with a runway, a airport, aerodynamic light, and a respiration of a bound fragment. A position must be assured for the construction of the Land Guard helicopters at the Eglish State Airport. The relationship then limits the government's authority to secure money so that there is a need for flight lights to be placed on the Northground airport so that he can improve his role as a patient. I spoke here at one time or another, that the Northground airport was placed in a stand, which is worth a fine price. But then I read, because I read a little further in this program, that this is not to say that residents in these areas can feel safe. Also, it should be noted that the funds that went to the Lils State Airport did not go to the runway, as I said before, but took a highway. The runway, which is not in good condition at all, remains to be maintained.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u57	V.E.G. President. I'm going to continue to make use of this session in the West, and I'd like to follow through on the 14th issue of the Western World, where there are better ways to work. That's where even the two of them come from. ........... ideas of bringing funding to the fore if environmental issues were to come up. The relationship lists the ways in which it recommends the implementation of funding for the Dolfandidir, which are now in the design process, would be delayed by the environment. Then they say here, with permission of the highest power. President: ▪ This would be done by bringing in the funding of Dolfandi, and so on. due to the potential for environmental assessment and implementation of implementation. There is also experience in the period during which, on the whole of a year's tour, a business venture through Darings has begun at 2020 at the opening of the animal range. In addition, financial resources will not be attached to the implementation of 60 Western Roads in the Guflund Valley if unaccounted delays remain on this project, where funds have been placed for the past 10 years without being used for other projects on the West. It's just a clear statement from what I was talking about in my last talk. So, only on the beach and on the 2, which is called: ▪ In accordance with the proposal of transport programmes, a total of 1,050 billion will be submitted. K. At a hunting necklace and an Inside road with 300 million. K. conducted at the end of the first period and at the end of 750 million. K. conducted during the second period. Because of an emergency urban problem, this funding is suggested during the first period and financial support is introduced there. In recent decades, the lack of government activity in the annual years, with the progressive delay of transport projects, has directly influenced the decrease in population and numbers of sheep in the countryside. It's almost time for a whole ELC to be in the countryside to be in grave danger. Improvements in Inland Road: This is a five - mile - long [5 km] course with unbounded discrepancies that break apart as servants of the Stranda to attend services to Hólmavík, whereby, 18 years later, the Church of Bolblep and Holasvíkhrep are united, and 14 years of Broddaneshrepepepepeppur joined these rural communities in the Stranda. This is also a road to the highway system. As I have mentioned in other talks, there are at least three root roads. It is of great interest that they are maladies when they live up to the sign of being stockways. There will be 3,500 million for the second period. K. ... intheinlandway, which is about 35 miles [35 km] of free break. With this suggestion, a whole road with a bound layer on all the roads of the West will be used, at the same time with a consistent quality of 1,000 miles [1,000 km] tourist route, a circuit 2 will be improved. The operation will promote tourism in the Stranda and neighboring countryside and increase the security of residents of the Strandy to attend services. V.E.G. President. I wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u58	Mr. President. In recent talks, I spoke about the city city of Reykjavík. Now, I'm going to discuss the Akureyri Airport, and I'm going to start considering the information of the Eyjafjörður Development Society on this transport plan or the transport plans we're discussing together, between the age of five and the age of 15. The job development society starts with celebrating the vision of the long - term program of the 15 - year plan. But so it says, by permission of the President: However, when the policy plan for transport is reviewed, it will be found that the future vision and goals listed in the transport program will not be funded for the next five years. We don't add words and lines and a good plan will miss. In general, the Northland can be claimed to carry a sharp object from the level when dividing capital between parts of the country. According to Article 2, 1,319 million will be spent in the worldwide airport for the next five years. Of these, only an estimated 78 million are in Akureyri airport because of regular maintenance. This means that the Akureyri Airport will not be adequately adjusted at that time, thus crossing the government's policy of building national transport and construction of the Akureyri airport as a global airport, as shown in a transport plan. Private services at airports are expected to be unsatisfactory and make the job development society a serious comment, and the service will be impaired or reduced in the next few years. The job development society makes note that rent permits or purchases to a new air station at the Akureyri Airport, but it does not follow that budget. The development of aerosols must also be protected, including the assessment of RNP AR and the potential for EGOS from the south. In other words, Mr. President, what does it say here? Yes, this is exactly what I've been talking about with domestic flights and this transport plan, that declarations are made of good plans, and that they are put in the long-term schedule. But when it comes to doing something to deliver the declarations, it is missing, as is clearly shown in the five-year plan, that there is a budget for implementing what is being thrown out and published in a 15-year plan. In the next five years, they don't put any money on it. Words and wealth do not mix in discussions and in the work of the national government on the international level. It also shows how little money is going in general with this strategy, and the details that are urgent and urgent, and have been that long in construction of the Akureyri Airport. It's nothing to do with this. 78 million for the next five years because of regular maintenance. Meanwhile, there are a number of things that have to be fixed so that the Akureyri Airport can function as an international airport, another portal into the country. And, of course, it is totally crucial to work and build up in the northeastern country to attend and build up a parish there. That in a five - year program, no further efforts are made to build up the Akureyri airport show us black in white that there is no basis for any declaration of domestic integrity. There are no others.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u59	V.E.G. President. It becomes increasingly apparent, as you look more closely at the transport plan, how all Iceland's taxpayers are prepared to pay for the failure of the organization in Reykjavík. Nine years ago, paying 1 billion a year on the part of the State to build public transportation was adopted, and there is in itself nothing to it, Mr. President, as I pointed out earlier, how that money was spent, but the expectations of the growing passengers with that money have been ignored. I've been thinking more and more, Mr. President. It appears that the first phase of a so - called city line represents two aspects. First, a new land is to be broken under the road line of the city. These include the trade area of the Cape Sea, above the River of Old age, which will be a city line. It may lead to pushing the business out of the city, and other employment activities that the mayor's greater part of has been eager to throw out of the city. That's what we're talking about, Mr. President, a little bit of car sales, and there's a lot of it, that I think, the next organized area for this operation is in Esliela, 17 miles from the city of Reykjavík. It is now a question of whether they accept it or go to the neighboring communities where the center of the capital area lies, the east of Kopavog, or something like that. Now you don't know anything about it. But they're breaking up a new country, Mr. President, under this transportation route, exactly as they intend to plow through the Netherlands. If this new government community gets it, they're going to break through the Köldnaland and break a new land under the road to the Blaklandsland so that the city line can get up to Mosfellstown. And I have to say, Mr. President, that the fact is that groups that give themselves over to being groups of nature protection, such as left green, are taking a full part in breaking a new land in the area of the capital. At one time, the number of acres in the capital area was published, and there are quite a number of them. But now they're to be multiplied. It's got left green all right. Sometimes you feel that they do not feel natural in Reykjavík, that if there is a green spot in the capital area, even if it is removed, it does not matter. I don't know why, it's like it didn't matter. Second, the mark on this first line of city's first phase shows that huge, long carts are to travel through street streets. For example, I pretend to see the plans I was making that huge cars all drive down Bolfsgats. It was not expected at the time or when this street was replaced several years ago, and now there is one other thing, Mr. President: There are quite a few small, relatively inexpensive apartments being built on a spot near the Shafis Way. People who have children have been there for them. Now these fine people wake up asking themselves: " How is it that people are going to do this, letting these monsters drive through the city streets of Reykjavík? ' That's amazing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u60	Mr. President. I want to open my speech by correcting what I said in my first speech. I quoted environmental engineer Þórarinn Hjaltason but once or twice misjudged his name. I apologize to him for this, and I request that this be corrected in a review of talks. The one I quoted so often is called Þórarinn Hjaltason Lörna, a traffic engineer, so that it is available. Mr. President. I was talking about the city line, and I was talking about Thor's Þórarinn in the core where he mentioned that the presentation was propaganda. This would be suggested in a way that it was more like a propaganda campaign than a presentation of projects with information and indicators of planning and calculation and practical suggestions. It would be put in a beautiful dressing, and I claimed that it might be done to put dust in the eyes of the common people and others to buy this idea along, which is truly a very expensive thing, and it is already there. It's very expensive, and I'm worried about it, as many other senators do, that the construction will be much more expensive. For this reason, many examples from other lands and also from other lands are that such projects, especially when they are badly implemented, or even unpublished, will be much more expensive than expected. This deception has continued, as I said here on the site of the city line. Commenting on the propaganda of the wording there, the traffic engineer Þórarinn Hjaltason noted some examples. Why is this game going on? It is to convince governments and neighboring communities that it is necessary to continue pumping funds into this mayor's dream factory. Why do I call this a dream factory? Because it appears to be based on clouds and dreams, and so is the case. The packaging is so beautiful, Mr. President, that people have been reluctant to criticize these ideas. And as often before, when much and most work goes into preparing the package, while time and energy are in it, people assume that the package is a good idea, well done. It's just like the Christmas package; as they are bigger and more beautiful, you have more expectations that there's something that's going to cost you. A number of government members, neighboring communities, and the government have already jumped on this bus and are prepared to pay high fees to get out of this prison, Mr. President. And who is this prison? It is that projects in neighboring communities and in the capital area have been at complete stop for the past decade and even longer. There has been no work here in the construction of tracks, misdirections, and such. The result is what all smokers and capital citizens know. They've been here to stop, not just a construction stop, but the residents have been literally stopped today, on their way to work, school, and other projects. It's not just a construction stop, it's a stop. In order to buy out of the incarceration that this stop creates, people are ready to pay and jump on this idea. This I have called here in the Sermon on the Mount the ransom. Who Will Pay the Ransom? Privacy, mostly government funds. That's why we're in the Generals speaking about it. This is part of a road program, the ransom. I went over it in a talk earlier that the nature of the ransom is natural in how it can be sold and how precious it is to be released. [[The president calls.]] It is widely known in the police department that hostages lead to a ransom.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u61	Mr. President. I'm going to proceed from what has been left over in my last speech and to discuss only the opinion of one of our main advisers and professor emeritats in strategy at the University of Iceland, Dr. Trausti Valsson. He and the local traffic Hjaltason, now advising this discussion, sent a letter to the mayor in Hafnarfnarfjörður, who made comments on a city line plan on what they believe would require more observation. It is of great interest and special interest that this has not received more attention because this is our number one planning expert and then our chief traffic engineer. Dr. Trausti and Þórarinn express great doubt that the ratio of the private car decreases from 76% to 58%, as expected in the city line-line strategy and that the proportion of bus users falls from 4% to 12%. These are plans that are laid out on the city line of activity and are of great interest in the fact that the number of people using the bus and that number has been taking place in about 4% and just a little bit more in a major effort. This is, as they say in their letter to the town authority in Hafnarfjörður, an unfaithful conclusion in view of the fact that the capital area is a car city. Then, attempting to expand bus service has only led to the small number of passengers, and we have seen it. The amount of money, as I say, is put on the increase in the number of bus users, but it hasn't been successful. And what basis is there for it to succeed in the city line? Yes, the chariots go something faster or faster back and forth. Of course, it's also about how long you're going to get to the next stop. However, they say that efforts to increase the number of bus passengers have resulted in little growth, and that is true. Also, they say that the proportion of walking and cycle walkers increases from 20% to 30% in the period due to an absolute distance and bad weather over wintertime. We know this. We just live in a different situation in Iceland than we do. correspondent in Denmark, where there is a high - speed race culture. We all know this, and there's nothing more to reason about. Then, in their memo to the town authorities in Hafnarfjörður, it is stated that although this increase in pedestrians and pedestrians becomes a reality, which is still unlikely to be, only a few percent less trafficways on the most busy highways. Walking and biking are much shorter than private cars, and most of these are spent in the summer when traffic is remembered. These are all well - known facts, and they present this in their letter, one of our leading adviser, Dr. Trausti Valsson, and the Þórarinn, a traffic Hjaltason who knows these matters very well. They also point out that despite the appearance of a city line, a new attack on highways will have to take place at 70 and 80 billion dollars. During this period of time, these are the examples of the Divide Way, the Sveinnes Way of the Road of Swarm, and the Capkarika and the Upper Streets of Calalsel and the Eaglenes Way, as well as the Trinitarian Railroads of Fos Sog and Cutting. The city line can only delay the cheap hills of certain chapters for a few years. This is a very interesting comment they make in a letter to the town council in Hafnarfjörður. [[The president calls.]] I'll discuss it in the next speech and wish to be reassigned to the rosary, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u62	Mr. President. Since other members of Parliament are not involved in this discussion, some may ask: " What is it that the media wants in transportation? The media wants easy, practical, and safe transport on land, air, and uterus. If we look especially to Reykjavík and the capital area, we'll focus on the Grand Way, the great vessel that connects the eastern and west of the city. It needs to be smooth and impenetrable, from the Athenian River and west to Mela Square. The main square of Mela is the public square, which stands at the National Museum, as known by men. There have been suggestions in this subject for professionals. I especially referred to a former professor, Jónas Elíasson, a professor of engineering at the University of Iceland, for decades. We want a waterway, Mr. President. Many have tried to point to practical solutions in this regard, although the city authorities have made various decisions and measures to make it difficult for them to do so. I would especially like to point to articles and interviews in the Morning Press at Gunnar Bjarnason Engineer. We want light control at the corner, Mr. President. We want traffic to go smoothly. We see that light control is very beneficial where it's being used. We in the Middle East want transport funds to be used effectively and effectively. That's why we can't go along with the plans for a so-called city line, not because we have something to do with public transportation. We're in favor of public transportation. However, when it comes to the value of 50 billion on this project, we cannot prejudge that provision for public funds, not when it has been pointed out by a skilled man who was several times quoted, i.e. An article quoted in March 2019, by Þórarinn Hjaltason, quoted that it is possible to achieve the same results for several billions of people. There's no way, Mr. President. Those who are responsible for these purposes are caught. Of course, it stands particularly on the Independence Party, which handles the terms of state funds, the terms of the government's budget. Of course, he must explain why he uses 50 billion of public funds on a project that is not even properly defined. The next thing you've learned, it's a red carpet for bus in most places. Other than that, there is a lack of adequate budgets, a lack of analysis of the factors that could result in the failure of these costs. There is a lack of profit. There is a need for practical strategies for the use of this city line, and there is also a lack of analysis of how it will hit public traffic, which, of course, must be paid here in the city. This is what I hope to have clearly identified the policy of the Central Party in these matters. I've been particularly focused on the capital area, as a senator of the Soviets, but I still have much left to say on this matter, Mr. President, and I'd like to be put on the rosary again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u63	V.E.G. President. I was thinking about the docks I was going to talk about later. Then I find out that recently there was a pretty big earthquake outside of Sigludar, 5.2 points showed me off. This helped me to think about what I was discussing here and what more people have been discussing in this discussion. This is about the routes leading to and from the capital area, especially the capital city as well as the rural communities that lie south and southwest of us, and how they work if the circumstances arise that we need to get people off this area quite quickly. Today it can't be done, chief. President. We recall the celebrations at the Hills of 1994. Many did not reach land or coast on their way to celebrations due to traffic congestion. And that's when they were only supposed to celebrate at the Capitol. You wonder what the situation will already be, or if, because, of course, we hope nothing will happen, we need to get rid of the area very quickly. This will not happen because the city authorities have failed to carry out their duty to fight for and ensure easy traffic on this corner of the country. I'm also going to allow myself to criticize my rural society around Reykjavík. It is no less beneficial for their inhabitants to be able to escape. For this, there's not been any thought. Of course, when it was negotiated specifically about ten years ago, I can't remember these dates, giving out the requirements for projects instead of a bus that didn't return. The inhabitants remain with a system blocked by much of the day, at least often a day, and with uncertainty as to how to get away. Of course, these projects were to be taken long ago, setting priorities for the city's streets, instead of these wild ideas about the city line, or what it is supposed to be called over the years, some strange goal that only a person can take the bus or his bike if they have to get out of the city. It's not gonna work. It simply doesn't work, and, of course, it's pretty sad not to stress it more. There is some formal emphasis on these projects in connection with transport, city line, and the transport agreement on the council. It's an ellipsis, like a single what? A member of the greater part spoke up against another man. A senator. In that reality, the mayor of Reykjavík lives and unfortunately, I think, those who run the rural communities around the capital and have followed the mayor's section in Reykjavík, especially in the last few years. These good people, who are sure to try to do their jobs, have completely ignored the interests of their citizens when this happens: how to get between cars in a hurry if necessary, e.g. In distress? A city line will not help anyone to get the situation started on the Smokejanes or above Reykjavík. She'll never help anyone. There will be no piled up to some superstails that may eventually get relatively limited. In fact, I don't think anyone knows what kind of vehicle this is going to be. But that's different. I'm worried about this, chief. President, because we're all supposed to know how nature in Iceland can behave and behave, whether it's earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, harsh winters, floods, or what it is. We live on an island where nature powers go, not the mayor of Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u64	V.E.G. President. I was listening to a talk. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, discussed earthquakes, earthquakes, and the subject of possible volcanic eruptions. So I cannot help but mention that it was not long ago that transportation to the Cheflavor airport and the city coast of Reykjavík was removed, or that this airport could not be used when the last time a volcanic eruption hit a flight that had to be made possible to land on other bases. This certainly proved their value then, that the airports were of great importance in the security of the people. A transport program maintains the importance of increasing the distribution of tourists. I don't know if it's because a road program is written at a time when tourists came to the country to a great extent. We all know that their numbers have dwindled, but this does not change the fact that we still need to consider paying transportation around the country and in and out of the country. Even if we are not necessarily tourists, there are other factors that are important, e.g. a medical flight that we need to be able to ensure if necessary. This security role must be one of the most important things in the transport program. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ What has been the primary purpose of flying management is to ensure that airports meet safety standards and standards that apply to them. [...] A priority order is to meet safety requirements at airports, including the reaction to an abnormality as follows: 1st Ports to foreign lands. 2. Other airports in a shallow network for public transport. 3. Landing sites due to medical flight. 4. Landing sites due to safety in public flight and teaching flights. I'll give myself this priority. Third place to have landing sites for a medical flight. It is also noted that small changes have been made in the network of transports since the last transport program. I mean, I haven't really gotten into what that means. Small changes in my mind are some changes, but it is usually taken to bind the length of a broken layer, that is, naturally, about the roads, and then the runway closure is No. 6/24 at Reykjavík airport, specific. That runway is the runway we know as the runway that was closed. There are many things that can happen in Iceland in terms of nature, so it may be time to restore a synoptic proposal made by several members of the Parliament at 2016-2017 that required re-opening an emergency runway in Reykjavíkur Airport. I'm even going to encourage the members of the council who are still here at the council to submit this synopsis proposal for opening an emergency route, if this is still possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u65	V.E.G. President. The person standing here has been traveling through the Northeast District in speeches today. I was in the West, but now I'm in the Dala region, and I'd like to quote the information given by the U.S. D.A. I have often discussed what is stated in the review, but it is good to be seen in the text because there are no good references too often. By permission of the highest power. President: The aims of a transport program are called positive development and [the aim] must be made to improve the quality of life of the country through improved transport and to strengthen the foundation needed to promote a wide range of employment and to improve competitiveness, such as by improving access to services. Emphasis on reaching these goals include: efforts will be made to strengthen transport so that, as most of the country, it is possible to approach the necessary public services at a short time, working on short term travel time within the work and schools. The construction and services of the transport system aim to improve the safety and support of the work and schools, as well as the development of policies that are mainly for tourists. This is shown in a community plan. These are very high goals. But then the review continues: It is clear that the Dalas farms are not large in transport and late activities, and the objective of the transport programme is not being met, but the above are all key elements in improving the quality of living in the Dalasav and building. But there's no leftovers. The problem is worse for the Dala region, which is the 60th country's 70th section of which nearly as many rural areas in the country exceed the proportion of roads with a bound fragment. Road accidents are also the largest in the Dala region, with the fifth most dangerous road system in the country under the Western European transport program carried out by the Federal Association in a Western country in 2017. Recently, data have provided that 54 Roads are another of the most dangerous roads in Western lands. It refers to the road of Forest Coast. During the past few years, despite the growing number of tourists and constructions in rural tourism, the U.S.A. has given little attention to governments. The level of transport in place is one of the basic conditions in the rural community. Roads in the Valley, small services, accidents are frequent, and single bridges are very numerous, some of which are located on blind hills or in blind corners. [...] In this regard, we refer to the following approved Dalaabian Educational Committee - it is, in fact, involved in smaller issues. It shows what this region, the Dala settlement, is primarily in the development of transport. If so, I would like to remind myself of a course I have often made in my speeches, i.e. Our Central Party's policy all over Iceland, that once we develop wood, all of this country's equality is being maintained. There is one of the main transport issues that would be carried out by taking the whole country in one unit, so that equality would be maintained between the settlements, so that development could take place around the country evenly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u66	V.E.G. President. I had started talking about the Akureyri Airport, and I had considered from the Eyjafjörður's professional development society, which showed that the government's words and practices on the Akureyri Airport, as well as so many other aspects of transportation, perhaps domestic flights in particular. Now, I'm just going to look at an opinion that Akureyri took from a transport plan, which begins with these words, with the permission of a president: The development of the Akureyri airport is one of the most important projects in the construction of transport workers in the North, if not for the entire region. It is noted that Arraytown was welcomed by the transport minister and social minister's agreement on building the Akureyri Airport that was written at the end of the last year. The agreement is followed, but there were some comments made during the follow-up. The poll says, with President's permission: ▪Operation of this work is an important factor in the future, not in solutions that will only solve temporary problems and that funding will be ensured in a transport program for building up. There are two important things that I have been discussing, one of which is a tendency to take short - term solutions, and not put money on domestic flights, except long after it is absolutely necessary, e.g. in maintenance of workers or runways, and it also says that it is important that money be assured in the transport program that you would have thought would be reflected in it in the light of all the statements and the agreement referred to by the mayor of Akureyri, on behalf of the town. But you're missing it, and here is what the President's opinion says: Then the Akureyri Corporation stresses that together with the construction of a air base, the structure of aeroplane barn must be considered, which is very important in order for the airport to function as its final airport. Then in Akureyri, there have been a wide variety of flying functions that have become very difficult and that the air supply needs to be completed first so that normal structure can take place. This flying case has been in the system for a long time. I thought we had at the time decided that it would be done. But as with so many other means of transportation, in particular in this government, there is cutting down and saving, if savings is the right word, because many times people are losing valuable investment equipment, such as in the case of the Akureyri Airport, for the area associated with this multi-county operation involving the flight. It cannot be enjoyed because cutting down is actually causing economic damage, rather than long - term savings. But further on, in the opinion of Akureyri City, the President's permission: It also shows the importance of being a satellite guide to best equipped for safe flight. The situation here is that the access to EGNOOS conduct is uncertain and limited. The government has to remedy their flaws and negotiate the safe spread of signals across the country. A targeted policy must be made in a transport program allowing councils, Groups, and Istavia to try to achieve that goal. EGNOOS is intended to play a key role... [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I hadn't even finished reading this smidge. I want to pray to the highest. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u67	Mr. President. I'm just going to go back to the place where my last talk was turned away. I've been going over a very interesting letter or opinion as one of our chief planning specialists, Dr. Trausti Valsson, architect and Organizer, and Professor emeratus of planning at the University of Iceland, sent along with Þórarinn Hjaltason, a traffic engineer to the town government in Hafnarfjörður, where they were concerned about the city line. Yet, they say that despite the ideas of a city line that they criticize in this letter, important roads must be taken. They point out that despite the appearance of a city line, a new attack on highways will have to take place at 70 to 80 billion in this period. It contains examples of the Diving Road, the Smokenes Way of the Road Between Savile Street and Capokika, the upper corner of Kaalissel Road, and the Eaglenes Way, as well as the anti - Tribals of Fos Sog and Savilion. Then, with the permission of the President, they say that a city line can only delay cheap hills on certain chapters for a few years. It is also noted that self - driving vehicles and their impact on traffic development are not taken into account and that urban lines call on costly trails and lanes to facilitate the access of waiting stations. It's very important. It is suggested that city line corrects traffic problems, that travel can be done in a shorter period of time. But there's something forgotten during the discussion that you have to get to places where the stations are, and it doesn't involve time savings, so you need to take into account. In view of this, the experts feel that further research is needed and that other solutions are to be considered. It is very interesting to hear this from one of the country's major organizational and traffic experts who have serious doubts about city lines. In addition, though, a traffic Hjaltason wrote interesting articles on these issues, including some of which have been published by Jehovah's Witnesses. has been cited in this discussion. It is a large and extensive project that costs a lot of money from a government fund, already going to the wealth of the estate. When it comes to the government's finances, it will be difficult to cope with the next phase and must be treated. However, at the same time here the government's expenses are to be agreed on at 50 billion dollars. on this task when there is no way to determine what the benefits will actually be. I say here and now that I would have considered to be perfectly normal in view of the nation's economic situation in a few months, that this project would just be pushed aside and put on ice, simply because we cannot afford to attack such an enormous project when it is not clear what the benefits are and what they are to make. I remind you that the number of people taking buses has been difficult. Much money has been put into it, and the result is little or no. What has changed in this regard? I think there's something that we have to look at when we're about to take on a major project based on the fact that the public uses this method, all of which suggests that the number of people taking buses has been extremely difficult to increase. There is something that cannot be overlooked on such a grand project based primarily on buses.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u68	Mr. President. It is close to me as a council member of the city's local city on transportation. When we are dealing with a road program, we have to say that we have very little discussion in the city of Reykjavík. It says that for many years this has been what has been called a construction stop, leading to the formation of road obstruction that people may sit for hours in line. I want to, Mr. President, say the word. paritaprevir Andersen, whose speech was successful in this discussion. When she spoke about Reykjavík, which she focused mainly on in her talk, she said, on permission of a president: There is a fear - inspiring situation in transport, a state of absolute permafrost. And, of course, that is to say. A senator in this regard as well as when discussing the consequences of this transport project in Reykjavík. It mentions a cover - up, both public and commercial, from the city of Reykjavík. Of course, this presentation is of great importance to the spirit we have been discussing. In fact, it's about a city line in a very similar way that me and the media have done, never calling it different, it looks like it's like a city line, and it says that it's an unscrupulously impossibility phenomenon. Similarly, in her talk, she says that as she is now, there seems to be no hand on the firmness of her speech. I'm still quoting what's happened. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen, by permission of Presidents: While this so - called city line is expected to produce 50 billion, it does not allow time for simple, practical road projects in Reykjavík, which are effective very quickly, and are also inexpensive. This is, of course, what we're saying, in my last speech, I put the emphasis on a clear route between East and West, and there's the Grand Way that we see. I'm going to quote from an article in the Morning Press last month, May 19, 2020, in which Jónas the son of Elíasson says about the Great Way, by permission of the president: To this day, it is estimated that only about 100 years of activity per day, and unnecessary fuel waste is about 10 tons per day, which is relatively bad for the climate that everyone wants to fix. Moreover, by permission of the president, Jónas says in his article: To make things right, one short tunnel will have to go through the Habitat, two bridges to go, one across the Grensáway, and the other to the mallway, where traffic lights can be torn off and an extra 50 percent higher. Additional measures are needed for this, at Lönhönund and Nútland Avenue, but they are less than that. And the author says that: The proposal for the Great Way presented here has not previously been seen, although it is totally direct as a solution to present problems. Similarly, Jónas Elíasson's son makes a discussion of putting a huge deckway that means that it should be buried in the ground, depending on the mole formula, likely, but he believes that these plans are evidently designed in order to distribute property on top of the deck. That's a short run for land. He's pointing to an example abroad from which I'm going to cross here. I don't have time to review it now, but I review it at the next talk, which calls for me to pray to the highest level. President of re-registered to the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u69	V.E.G. President. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Izzma, who spoke before me, I would like to quote only an excellent speech. paritaprevir It's Sigríður on. Andersen. Hv. A senator is not afraid to follow his convictions and express his views. I think it may be transposed to a great many independent individuals who wonder how the group he has supported over the years throughout the course of the so - called city line, where the party has been living with the mayor's section that wants to drive against the so - called city line. I agree with it. A senator said, the construction stop in the capital area is very serious, especially since the safety of road users, i.e. that the routes are not as safe as they can be. Mistakes can solve quite a bit of that as well as rough. A senator mentioned in his talk. But as I mentioned in my last speech, I think I was, it's part of the public defense that people can get out of this area in the easiest way they can come to such an event. It has also been shown, and why. paritaprevir As Dr. Andersen points out, the neighboring community of Reykjavík has received a duel through this capital contract, which in itself is nothing new. These are projects on schedule, so it's just being fixed. However, more than one part of the community should be ambitious to look to safety, but clearly it is not, if we look, for example. in Kopavog, Hafnarfjördur, and Gardavóttir. There seems to be no interest in the greater proportion of the city's safety involved. Why are these people not pressured to drive through the city of Reykjavík for safety and safety? When you're east of Old age - I have to admit that I'm always half-missed in this house - everybody's in the same place where people come from from from the southwest corner. It is a responsibility not to think about this, and we are standing here and discussing a transport program to help identify these things. Although some of the representatives of the groups that make up more part of the local communities, they do not have it done yet. Of course, if a city line is going to take tens of billions of dollars from the state, it will at the same time delay other projects because money will not be used many times. Those who have signed the fact that this line is the main issue also need to account for it in their rural governments, and can explain it to their voters, whether the final cost is clear. It doesn't take much for this to run on billions of dollars, and for farms small and large, it is important that there is no uncertainty about it. Hv. paritaprevir Sigríður Andersen, as presented in the speech of the oar. paritaprevir Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson, when he quoted her speech, he calls the city's line an impossibility. That's right, it's an unexplored phenomenon. There is so much uncertainty as to what this is really supposed to be, and how it becomes necessary to attach this huge amount of money and priorities to the person we don't know what it is. What's more, and yet and again, the highest. President: We do not know the outcome. The final number is not known. Will members of the Independence Party take responsibility to accept the transport programme and contracts and then budgets that are open to state funds and with no advance?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u70	V.E.G. President. I'd like to think here about some ideas about the Scottish route we've been talking about. I have to admit, I don't really know what it's all about, except that people get their flights down. I'd like to think so. paritaprevir The other day, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylförfóttir spoke of the fact that these subsidized routes were in an airport that did not count international airports. I may have been wrong, but it seems to me that if we're going to take the Scottish route, we'll be with Keflavík, Reykjavík, Egress, and Akureyri outside of parentheses. These fields are international airports, and they don't apply if we are going the Scottish route. Maybe it's just a wall, but I'll let myself think a little out loud. I found an article on the subject and work out the results of a hearing that was held. Those living in the remotest areas of Scotland are referred to as being cut off by air traffic, and it is up to 50% off. It speaks of six destinations within and outside the United Kingdom and refers to the state as standing for this, followed by airlines. What has happened is that more airlines have been introduced to the market because of this Scottish process. We now have the Icelandic international airline called Air Iceland Connecticut, and we have an airline named Ernie. We've got Mys, a lot of patients, and more airlines I don't know how to mention, but I know about them. If subsidies happen on-the-fly, we may see more airlines on our market, who should truly get us better and set off some kind of competition, but it's a little twisted. In Scotland, such subsidies are spoken of as 70,000 individuals a year. If the amount is transferred to Icelandic dollars, the cost of the State is $16,000,17,000. per user. Now I can't help but think a little negative. Granted, we are not that many of us are, so it may be hard to believe that this is the only way to make a market if we turn the route to the little airlines, so to speak. It takes less to run small airplanes than these big ones, and obviously we've seen it in the domestic flight now. I need, for example. flying between Akureyri and Reykjavík is often used, but not by the larger ones of the day. I'm gonna continue to examine this Scottish way because I think there are a lot of people who don't really know what it's all about, and I don't know. I think it sounds good, but it needs to be practical and useful to all of us in the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u71	The Honorable President. I've been traveling through the country in these speeches. I have even. were in the Northwestern district, in my district, and stopped on the Snæfellsnes. Stykisholmtown has sent in a very detailed review, a supplementary guide, to a transport program. As shown in my talk earlier, when I quoted the review from the border government of the Dalas coast, this is closely linked to the two parts of the country, the Dalaisin and the Solnfells. It is one of the two root roads of the land, which have been completely unsettled in a garden for decades. The road had entered the 2006 or 2007 project, but nothing happened. I just want to grab this report from the town of Stykkislins: ▪ In 2007, the Forest Coast of Transport was on transportation, and if it had been maintained, the road would be improved. On the other hand, he was taken off schedule, leaving us with crooked, narrow, and rocky roads, rich in monotonous bridges, blind hills, and other dangers. It is evident that right away the completion of the game design of Forest Beach (determination, prototype design, design, design, and design) is required. The design of the roads from the West has been initialized to the Heydal Roadsports. So the foreword to that end must be directed immediately so that the work design can be completed. Little or no work has been done from Stykisholm Road to Narfun, however, was considered, at the time, abbreviated on the road about 7 miles [7 km] with a bridge over Eelfjörður Fjordur. It is necessary to start with the originals of that passage, forethought, and then design. This section of the road has been totally by like the Forest Coastal Road. In fact, it is part of that road and would bridge over that shore of a distance of seven miles. I want to read on about the situation in the area because of the bad way: Since the road to construction, working and attending in the area is very important, the construction of the Forest Coast has been stopped. For example, during wintertime snow currents along the coast of Forest Beach for only two days a week, or after. The F. Rule of the Roadmaker, with the related effect on the school attendance of children in the area. For school applications, please refer to the available information in the region of Dala, which includes: is deeply concerned about school and educational issues. On this side of the road, rural society is deeply concerned about the erosion in transport between these areas. It is also noted that the number of tourists in recent years has increased throughout this road. Travelers who travel through the country on rental cars do not realize the condition of the road until they begin driving it because cars are so equipped today that the destination is pushed into place, and then the device shows only the shortest route. The route to Forest Beach is usually the shortest route in miles between areas in the West, or in the Darla, and out on Snæfells, where the systems lead this crooked road, and there's a lot of accidents and accidents in this road because nothing has been done for him all these years. It may also be said at the end of the day that the person standing here has recommended a synopsis of the design of counterweights in this road and I hope that the proposal will be carried out. V.E.G. President. I wish to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u72	Mr. President. I have been discussing the Akureyri Airport and have quoted from the reference to Eyjafjörður and Array, but in both cases, the lack of wealth on the promises made about the structure of national airports and the growth of national airports. I'm going to continue with the leaving of the story in the city of Akureyri, which says, with the permission of the President: It also shows the importance of being a satellite guide to best equipped for safe flight. The situation here is that the access to EGNOOS conduct is uncertain and limited. The government has to remedy their flaws and negotiate the safe spread of signals across the country. A targeted policy must be made in a transport program allowing councils, Groups, and Istavia to try to achieve that goal. ELTOS is likely to play a key role for further improvement in south-south flights, which will improve access to the Arkeys Airport. This EGNOOS system is referred to in more opinions or reviews carried out by the Council of Transport and may be able to improve it because this is an extremely important case, as it is killed here, and yet another example, despite all the declarations of planned implementation, is not set up in such fundamentals that can change the great potential of the Akureyri airport. It goes on to say of the airport in the city of Akureyri: ▪ In other respects, Akureyri makes a similar comment to little money to fly in the country in a direction of transportation. It is important that the international flight throughout the country be responsibly extended and all sides will be examined in that regard. This is a key factor in urban development in the country. Then Akureyri shows that the so - called Scottish route will soon be established. This is a summary of a few sentences, i.e. the importance and need of government declarations. Also, the Scottish route is a committee I've discussed before there is too much uncertainty about it. If we want to get a closer look at the numbers behind the comments I have made here, it will be enough to look at the changes in transport plans from the majority of the Committee. There's a table showing maintenance and regular development of equipment at specific airports, and here we're just talking about maintenance that you would have thought would be a minimum requirement for funding. But if we first look at the Akureyri Airport, then the surface maintenance of runways and loading is expected to be 52 million. K. of that in 2020, 5 million. K. In 2021, 0K. 2022, 0K. 2023 and 0K. 2024. This is not getting better when we consider the list of buildings and equipment, investments in it, 0K. In 2020, 18 million. K. In 2021 and then 0K. Next year, 0K. 18 million are spent there in the following year and again by 0 K, which said the total in the five years. K. building and equipment at the Akureyri airport. Finally, there are various navigation and light equipment and correction anomalies, 3 billion. K. in 2020, 0K. Next year, then 20 million. K., then 0K. and then 0K. These are all the powers, Mr. President, of the great reports on the expansion of the Akureyri airport and the national flight. [[The president calls.]] But now I haven't even taken up the Eglsstand Airport yet, so I pray to the highest degree. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u73	Mr. President. I'm going to continue to discuss the opinions and reviews of one of our main organizational instructors on this city's transport plans. Dr. Trausti Valsson, architect and professor at the University of Iceland, has carefully examined these matters and sent in reviews. In addition, he sent a note to the Þórarinn authorities in Hafnarfjörður Hjaltason, a traffic engineer, to the city line of transportation. It is very interesting to read what Dr. Trausti Valsson has left behind, and the special book he wrote in 2015, the conventions that are very interesting to learn about, as he deals with organizational matters and suggestions that have been presented in recent years that have had a very bad relationship with reality, as he put it. In his book, he uses terrible examples from the history of Reykjavík, as he himself puts it, that they should be sufficient to teach us how to be alert to extenuating ideas and to remind us not to rush into making decisions on complex suggestions, for upon closer examination, they might reveal that they were not in healthy relation to reality. You ask yourself, " Is this not a matter of ideas about the city line when tens of billions of projects that people don't know how rewarding it will be or how many will use the road method of transportation? ' ThenTrausti based on the proposals related to the city line, he mentioned that we should take a few years of such an examination and that we should consider in part a review of the main community structure in the capital area, since this is where much more than our choice leads to the priorities or specialities of the city line, such as Dr. Valsson, Organizer and professor emeriatus at the University of Iceland, put it into practice. Then, Trausti about the bus and train systems is used to ensure that they are different, as we know. In the city line system, the lines fall from the middle and out, mainly from the early part of Reykjavík, and the main center is the centre of traffic, BSI, which means that often people must go west, e.g. to catch a quick bus or train in Mosfellstown. I don't think people thought it was exactly how it really is, i.e. that you need to get to these places in order to be able to use this method of transportation, and that, of course, is a delay. Dr. Trausti Valsson says that in many parts of the country, the lines often cross the radial lines or the middle and out. In the capital area, this meant that it would be less likely to enter Reykjavík to fit into the country. Then, Trausti covers the maps shown and conforms to the city line proposal, and the so - called recording area of the lines, which are about 400 feet [400 m] wide to each side. In these areas it is likely that people will not feel too far from going to train stations. It's not that far from there, is it? However, in these uptake areas today, much fewer residents live than is needed to survive the movements of the lines. Therefore, a structured arrangement suggests that along this city line will be built on both sides of a dense block that will double approximately two blocks. The population in the recording areas until the year 2040. It is in these narrow line areas, which are 400 m wide, where most of the new apartments in the capital area are due to rise, that is, the population that corresponds to the present combined population of Kapavogs and Hafnarfjords. This will not be an attractive structure that builds along these lines to get people to use these lines. Mr. President. I see that time has passed, and I have just begun to review this review of Dr. Trausti Valsson and wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u74	A respectable president. In my final talk, I discussed what appears to be the plan to put a Grand Prix in a deck, as it is said. This means digging it down into the ground. I quoted articles from the May 19 Jónas of this Elíasson, by Professor emeritus, which appeared in the morning. He believes that these plans are clearly in order to be able to distribute property on top of the deck and likely to improve the financial status of the city if I understand the author correctly. As a result, Jónas points out an example from Boston, U.S.A., recalling that it was started digging down about one and a half miles long, a major road that was to cost $3 billion but the project took 15 years, says author, and left 3 billion to 9 billion. The cost of the operation increased tripled. Jónas Elíasson asks, by permission of the president: Do people want a fairy tale like that? No one needs to doubt that the cost of the deck will triple, if not ten times, when it begins to dissect through the entire tube, into the gray, and then land in the water stories. Mr. President. It is the principal good government to base its plans and decisions on the knowledge and counsel of the best and the best. As we discuss these matters, the transport situation in Reykjavík, we repeatedly fire ourselves at the discretion of professionals in recommending these plans. This is highly recommended against digging down a Great Way, putting it in a box, as it is said. These discussions have repeatedly referred to professionals, including Þórarinn Hjaltason and a former professor of Trausti Valsson, who protested the city line. It has been observed that the state is going to place less than 50 billion in what scholars consider completely unscrupulous nonsense. I present an example of such an opinion by Jónas the son of Elíasson. He wrote an article in the May 14 issue of this year under the heading: The city line is not to be discussed. He says that the official community for a city line, as expected to form a special bill before the council, is a failure. This community is supposed to have it as one of its main projects to attack the city line. He says it opens up the possibility of running a business like the one that was done with the peddles and sea factory at the Rhools for years. The government has paid the annual loss by increasing its share in the company. Mr. President. I need to consider this article in the case of Elíasson's son Jónas. He ends it with the words: ▪ Unbelievably, a city line is generally under discussion. These views need to be discussed, and I ask to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u75	V.E.G. President. I'm just going to keep remembering a talk. paritaprevir It's Sigríður on. Andersen. She came into something I also discussed, i.e. The programs that exist on the use of this city line. Once again, Mr. President, the reason I'm speaking of a city line here is that I'm primarily concerned that the project, as a member of the management team expressed it, is, in fact, about something else, some of the sideliness that some people are moving into, that this vast task is not well considered enough, and that the so-called city line, this phenomenon, is very vague, as it is. paritaprevir In fact, Dr. Andersen points out in his speech. As a result, I feel that it is impossible to criticize. I think it's very important for us to criticize the task that at least we make it. in the council's books that they have warned of the case, regardless of whether something can be changed or put more notice on the involvement of the State, or some sort of ending, not just a single flow from a fund into the project. If this were possible, it would, of course, improve. Hv. In his speech, a senator mentioned a plan to share public transportation, i.e. aims to reach 8%. In 2011, the participation was 4%, and a large amount of money was put on top of it. But she's still 4◯5%. I think it's the latest public transportation figures. Of course, if you are a member of a city line, you'll pick it for the rest of it, that it's not important and cool and it's hard. But why not just add the ministry to today's activities, increase the frequency of travel? And like a dog. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen points out, and I also pointed out in my speech and others have said, including in the city of Reykjavík, why don't you try to keep free on the bus, teach people how to use the route before going into a tens of millions of investments? I remind you again of the project in Norway, mentioned earlier, where 50 miles were meant to cost 50 billion, but it ended in over 200 billion, according to an article in the business magazine. We are discussing this responsibility, and of course we would like to try to get people to open up their minds and keep in mind the government funds for the project, for of course, their communities will have to be responsible if they want to go on this expedition. The capital must be responsible for its share, and the neighboring communities that join in, in effect, for some hurrying of projects that were planned anyway, have to be responsible. Reykjavíkurburg and most of the pieces that control Mosfellstown, Hafnarfjörður, Gardenville, and Kópavogi, the independent people in those places, have to be responsible for the way money is handled by residents in their communities. It seems like a dream vision, like someone here mentioned. At least it's a great dream to get the usage out of 4%, considering what's suggested here. Of course it's not. A senator's position as a member of the 1st Publigator is natural to criticize how the family in Reykjavík has been treated. You can agree completely with what you're saying. Senator. Of course, families in the capital area, whether in the city of Reykjavík or in the neighboring countryside, have to spend much of their time waiting in traffic knots because their communities have not been able to make the traffic work, are not able to keep the manpower needed. But, hey. paritaprevir Sigrrides Á. Andersen does not just criticize, it points to the solution, it points out that men can, for example, can. Based on two distinct misdirections that would make traffic easier. Mr. President. This talk is a better subject, for it is of great importance in many respects. However, I miss more party members coming up and explaining their views on the matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u76	V.E.G. President. I had only begun to understand the Scottish route, and I found a report I need to read about it, how it is being conducted in Scotland. I also discussed how bad it was to close the emergency course earlier. It cannot be opened again, if I understand correctly, because it fell to the Supreme Court that it would have been legal, unless people intend to get some damages. So it's over. But then I'm back to that Scottish route, it's very important to consider that some sort of subsidence structure on a plane transport if we are to view it as public transportation. I remember in the news it cost a family 200,000 bucks. To go to Reykjavík from Egls' headquarters for a weekend in case people were going flying. For example, it would be possible to use the Scottish route. I can see the Scottish way more as a means to go and pursue culture. In fact, I remember that this country would be the settlement that would move from culture to the capital, but it has not been promoted that there are capital citizens who want to travel to the country. There's something special that doesn't show up. Now we have subsidies on trips related to health care. It's through Iceland's Medical Insurance that people can apply to reimbursement. People often fly on such trips because of health care in the capital area, and it is so important that people make an account, and they will take some time to repay it. I know an example of how people are getting embezzlement or Visa camps just to cover the costs that are totally unacceptable. But what I wanted to say, because I could only look at the report on the Scottish route, is that it says that those who are not reimbursed from third parties, now Iceland's Medical Insurance, are not entitled to subsidies in Scotland, on the Scottish way. It's all right, and I understand that point of view very well. But that is why Iceland's Medical Insurance interprets many things very narrow and more often than doctors have called to them more often than Iceland's health insurance is involved in paying trips, and people often have to pay themselves expenses. Let's just say that we have to decide on the Scottish route for what to do. If you say you're going to a doctor, and you're going to be reimbursed on health insurance - what I'm trying to say is that the misunderstanding is so intense that it's hard to imagine how all this is going to talk to each other. And then we can ask ourselves, " Do I - I would never agree with this? ' That's exactly what I'd talk about being what's selective or about culture, or that people want to get up because otherwise, we're giving up on the fact that basic services are committed all over the country, and that makes me feel like a big deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u77	V.E.G. President. Now I'm on my journey through the Northwestern district that I'm north of the province of Théove. Here's a lot of reviews from the American Associations of the Northern West, SSNV, and I'd like to take it down there, by permission of presidents: For a period of time, the construction of the Pelurustine Road has been in the process of transportation, but with each new strategy, it has been pushed back into the implementation. It had recently been invited out and is now in charge. The last transport program expected work to start in 2020, but the proposed delay is now being made up for 2022. In this way, inhabitants of the national part of the world cannot enjoy themselves. This road has the most dangerous roads in the country. There has been an increase in the number of heavy transports and tourism traffic. The road is one of the projects that all parts of the country have put in place in a new transport and infrastructure programme. It is disappointing that the measures taken to speed up transport in the country are not being carried out in the northern part of the West but rather that are urgent in the region pushing back into the development program. SSNV government requires the start of action on Mount Mortar Road in 2020. As discussed on Alexander's airport, I have made two or three times before the Senate resolution that Alexander's airport will become a spare airport. That's why there's a very good argument about his position in the country. Since there are good flight conditions and weather conditions in that area, the winds are good for both landing and flying. However, the suggestion has not been established and is unfortunate. The review continues, with president's permission: ▪ In the field of airport coverage, Alexander's airport is still not defined in the base of an airport, as has been emphasized by the SSNV ever since he was removed from the base with a single pen mark. In 2018, an experimental project with the support of the Northern Western parish program was completed. Then the airline Ernar arrived on a regular schedule between the sheep of the year and the city of Reykjavík. The flight was quite new, but it was a matter of fact that the project has not lasted long enough to get the full experience of it. It is important that the flight will be resumed and that will be part of a plan known as the Osskosk Way, which aims to subsidize the population in private effort, in line with the suggestions of a team on the structure of the flying system and the implementation of domestic flight as public transport. Then I'd like to grab the back of the envelope, which is a hell of a bag. It discusses the ideas of tunnels through the Grinch, with the permission of a president: At the beginning of 2019 C.E., the Targifur and Akureyri administrations found that at the beginning of the year, they put aside a common challenge to the government to begin to accept the practicality of building tunnels through the Grinch. It is also important to investigate the economic and social effects of such a project. Then there is a vast text to support the need for this. This would change transport from the northern part of the desert to the northern part of the West and on the whole road. How exciting it is to see if this issue cannot be followed! This part of getting transport back on track. V.E.G. President. I wish to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u78	Mr. President. I've been discussing the Akureyri Airport and how little money is spent building that airport, and actually simply in maintaining it and allowing it to be properly used as an international airport. Sadly, though, the same is true of the Lgel Positioning Airport. I referred to the changes made to a greater part of the transport committee, the latest version of what this is supposed to look like in the national airport. There's a table over the airport. There's a penny there, as I went over earlier, and there's Eglish places. But how are the prospects? It is expected that during the surface maintenance of runways and loading will occur at 0 p.m., at the next 0 K., in 2022 0k., 2023 0k. And 2024 0 K, which says nothing about a predictable future. What about buildings and equipment? 0K. This year, 0K. on the next one. But there are 35 million in 2022, and then again 0K. and 0K. year after that. Various guidance and light equipment, correction of anomalies, 3 million this year, then 0K, 0K, 0K. and 0K. There is a plan to transport an Istavia airport without the financial support needed to build up that area. This scheme was exposed to the day before the Covid pandemic completely changed the situation of Istavia. But even if the situation remained as financially strong as it was expected, it is a problem, in fact impossible, to transport funds directly from the Cheflaví International Airport, his income, and use the international airport. The way to do this is through the Kingdom, the government taking advantage of Istavia and making it useful to build up the international airport. So that the ideas that have existed or are planning to mix the Isvia into this seem to me to get rid of the problem, because it seems to be viewed at this airport as a problem rather than an opportunity, getting rid of it to this official community not to have to face up with the plan like this, where there's more and less 0K. all the years in this important airport. It would be nice to put this in context of the transport program for the next five years on airports and airport services, in relation to both the Eglish Airport and the Akureyri Airport, as it says, with the permission of the president: To meet the EEA standard requirements in Regulation No. 464/2007 in airports it is necessary to set up aerospace light on five runways at these airports. - It's absolutely necessary to fulfill regulations. So says: - ◯ A search must be made to ensure funding for the project to be completed by the end of 2021. The next five - year - old and another - to - 15 - year - old transport plan is presented, and it shows that significant funds are needed to be placed in the airport, but financial support is not involved. It is simply said: A search must be made to find the money. And there's another one, by permission of the President: ▪ Anticipation systems of the Akureyri Airport are in their years and are closely monitored for its effectiveness. The estimated cost of renewal is up to 1,000 million. K. and is not in a transport program. It's all in the same book, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u79	Mr. President. I've been talking about the reviews of Dr. Trausti Valsson, the strategy specialist and former professor at the University of Iceland, one of our major organizational experts, and many very interesting things Trausti has left in town. I'd like to encourage senators to study what Dr. Trausti has said about the city line because there's a man with a superior knowledge of organizational matters. He says in his review, with the permission of a president: ▪ One of the worst points about the city lines is that the writers do not seem to realize that urban areas - and thus bus - are changing constantly. We know each other, for example. Most of the time, the central point of the bus system was in Lullar Square. Now there is a Hlmm, but by new proposals at BSI, it's becoming the centre of the world. His grave, which is very west, i.e. in the outer year of the capital area, it is not good, but it is best that the centres of the network are closer to the center of the area. It is common sense to realize that. Today, however, it is at the center of the capital area in Kopavogi, says Trausti. ▪ In a hurry, you might think that your lines could save costs, e.g. in stockways or in traditional streets. Sadly, that would be very small. Ten years ago, the capital area in cooperation with Secretary of Transport Ögmundur decided to take the billion people who have set footways from the state each year and leave the money on the bus for ten years, i.e. a total of 10 billion. This contract has meant that in the founding system many important tasks have not been carried out [...] Reykjavík's founding system has not been completed because it was made a contract to put the money in the bus. This means, naturally, that there has been an accumulation of projects and bottle necks and has become very important to solve. When it is done, Trausti says, and there I want to take my mind under him, traffic goes back to run normally. It can be said, in effect, that the city of Reykjavík created this problem, by postponing projects at the footways, which will then be solved by building a city line as a government fund to pay most of the money and then expecting the citizens of the capital area to leave most of them in the street. Something doesn't work out. Dr. Trausti refers to an important foundation project and, in such neglected projects, financial contributions from the state will be required to go over the years, that says itself. The appearance of a city line ever in the future will not solve such problems. In addition, many other major projects are waiting for the government to pay mostly, and we see here in the transport program. Trausti specifically mentions the Dizziness Way, which will make the year's snowblow and the Great Way easier. It is important to establish a similar connection or to cross the Snivellery that would reduce stress on Hafnarfjörður Road, Round Way, Great Way. These two connections, i.e. Additionally, to the south and north of the city, public security is essential because only one way out of the city and out of the south is incorruption. Here you speak with knowledge of organizational developments for more than 30 years in this field, and we are to listen to the voices of people who know well, as in this case. It is quite clear that the monotonous statement taken by the government is something that must be considered in view of the different views of professionals that point in a different direction, that this is not a reasonable option. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. Please put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u80	Mr. President. I'm gonna grab the ball where we head off. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson understood, and of course it is, as I stressed in my last speech, that the government is to support the advice of professionals, experts, to support the advice of the best. In the issues we are considering, it is striking that there are important tasks to be considered, i.e. Important in the sense that they are animals, not in the sense that they are urgent, which meet with experts'opinion. I discussed it in my last speech how Professor emerius Jónas the son of Elíasson discussed the idea of setting a grand path in a box or digging it down, which he completely rejects. He also rejects the so - called city line. He says here in an article in the May 14 issue of Awake! that the city line was presented as an improvement in public transport, but only a twentieth person uses the bus system regularly, that is, these data from 4◯5%. He says about this, with President's permission: It cannot be described as a public transportation but as a community service to people who do not have their own cars. This may be further discussed, as Professor emerius Jónas the son of Elíasson makes that 95%, 19 out of every 20 will be completely out of control in these plans. On the city line, he says, with permission from the President: ▪ The Borg line is a complete absurdity; it began with the majority of the city's mayors wanting trams, they were so environmentally friendly. In effect, they are dangerous for the environment, and they have generally been eliminated. He runs how the matter developed, the Danish word was found, and translated into English. It came out easy - reading, and they may recall a talk about light trains that for a time reflected their talk about the city line. He says that it started out as a trolley, went over to be a light reading, but then he runs that a foreign scholar directed the mayor in a way that would make no sense unless the number of passengers in the bus multiply and the trolleys were completely out of date, so there should be a bus. So we're here to see a city line that doesn't care as a bus. What started as trolleys moved on to talk about light trains, but now it is bus talk. He continues in this article: The Borg line is increasing its transport capacity in the bus system, which runs with more and less empty cars. It's amazing that those in charge listen to suggestions like this. Most of the time, the bus is exposed to less than five of it. That's shuttle service, not public transportation. What to do is create a proper system around that service. He goes on to discuss the environmental side and is worthy to look at it today as is already a great deal of stress to keep the environment in order. I don't have time for that, Mr. President, so I'm asking to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u81	Mr. President. In itself, these two methods of transportation cannot be discussed without referring only to ports. I'd like to talk to you here in Reykjavík, as well as to be the largest fishing crew in Iceland, is the bus transport and passenger transport vessels and has been built up in most of the last few decades, in the middle of the Sun, then belongs to the Brundartan Harbor. I believe there's been a significant tightening of the waterfront, and I'm not talking about Reykjavík Harbor, especially if these urban ideas become reality. Actually, there is one thing, Mr. President, which I only want to enter because Geirs Street is being severely squeezed past Hafnar Square, which is the very way that quite a lot of oil trucks drive around every day. It must be a responsibility to block the town in Reykjavík, as is currently being done, on the basis of this heavy transport. We must ask ourselves, " How long can the inhabitants of Reykjavík find pleasure in the presence of an oil supply station in Esterry, and how much oil is needed every day to be driven to every nearby gas station? ' We must ask ourselves, " Is it not time for these matters to be raised, and then there is a misdeeds in the mind? ' If we were to launch an oil - ship suspect, the oil would have to pass through a Halfland tunnel, probably drive for Whaleland every day, which is not a good option. Then comes the mind of the port of Helguvík, an excellent ship for just an oil reception. But the Iceland government had recently turned down considerable funds to improve their ports. That was an amazing arrangement, especially because of the way things are going on in the Southnes right now. But that's not the main issue. If only we look at this one thing I killed on here, i.e. The transport of oil in this region - and then I also have to deal with Acdine, Hölflfjörður, Selephoss, and Keflavík - is completely impossible for the future, and it is actually impossible today for heavy oil to pass through the most delicate part of Reykjavík. Now one must think, because most of us would like to build up a job in Reykjavík, although the mayor's department is opposed, that we are about to start using, soon the next year, the first five - star hotel in Reykjavík. In fact, there are rumours that it has already come, but let's not make a camel out of a gnat. But this hotel is standing right by the street where all these oil transfers go every day. According to one reference work, the European Union's Mobility Board suggests that space is significantly higher for rejection in the two proposed transport programmes. There is more space for the assessment of ports - ergo: They feel that the two transport program is not covered enough. It should be corrected before they are approved. But I can't finish this right now so I'm going to ask the President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u82	V.E.G. President. Now I have an Icelandic report on the Scottish route. These include a team of employment development partners and the local Based on national flights that brought up the answers to questions that the group received in connection with the Scottish route. This report is published in connection with a hearing held on October 4, 2017, and this is a good document. I'm going to start by reading directly from the report that explains what the Scottish way is: The Air Disuse Scheme (ADS) was established by the Scottish government in 2005. The schedule has been extended several times, now last in 2015, based on articles No. 51 of the Council Regulation No. 651/2014. The objective of ADS is to increase the availability of direct air service from peripheral in Scotland. With 50% of the pay paid by the population in designated areas, ADS contributes to the social participation of the inhabitants of a peripheral population in the urban population. Please visit a website where you can find a report from the Scottish government. It is intended, according to the report, that in Iceland a plan will be implemented based on this process. They have access to it, which has a legal home in the designated territories, which fall under the support and subsidies of 50% of the pilot who was in our case between home and Reykjavík. That's where I want to stop for a second, so let's keep this in mind. The other 50% will be paid by the airline from the ADS Records under certain conditions. It's not that crazy. People apply to this system, and they have to confirm their domestic stability, and this is done in a certain way. We have social security and law enforcement, and we have the necessary databases. It works, as it's puts out, so a passenger flyes in a airline accounting engine and logs in an decryption code. This lowers the cost of the discount. Then the airline takes 50% to the state. The airline is said to maintain its payment plans or staging passengers, or what to say, i.e. pricing costs, perennial fees, bouncy costs, etc. It remains an incentive to buy the cheapest fare, that's stated. Those who are not entitled to discount are passengers with a legal home outside designated areas, and passengers who receive reimbursed trips from public or third parties, and insurance agencies are there. I think there may also be health insurance in Iceland and, of course, those who are involved in business. Since Scotland does not have a limit on the number of travels, it appears to be limitless, and it can buy two legs. At first I thought it was just another one, but now I've learned that two legs are available. It all seems to be about those who live in a designated area of the plan. Now, my time is running out, so I'm going to get to go back to the rosary, and I'm going to keep going over this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u83	V.E.G. President. I have a list of questions and answers from what. The Environment and Transport Committee from her meeting on May 19 of the past. These are ten questions, and I want to address a few questions and answers. Here's one of the questions I was talking about the Gufldalian Orchestra on the Westfjords I was talking about earlier: ▪ Two charges were received, do they affect projects in the west? What is the time line of other tasks? It says in answer: Two counts were received due to the implementation of a new Vflavor route via the Gufudal Squad. The road produced reports to the decision - making committee on May 20. It can be assumed that the decision will take 6◯9 months. The road is to prepare an invitation for two projects that might start sooner. On one hand, straddled erosion of some six miles [6 km] to the current Westfjords in the Gufund, which will be used as a road to towns in the Gufudal Valley after its completion. In addition, it will use traffic in the Vestafari Road for the next 4How5 years until construction is completed in the Gufudal Squad. However, the precipitating of the German population is targeted, which is part of the D2 route. Whether or not they will be carried out by the decision - making committee has not been tested, but this will be clear in the weeks following. There's clearly a problem going on about the local lawsuits. The road is to try to penetrate chapters that are not within the range of the charges and are still unsolved or unforesee how projects on the Gufudal Army will wind up because of these charges. However, there are some answers that will be held back in 6◯9 months. How it's gonna be, you don't know if your lawsuit continues. So there's another question: ▪ A train; last week the mayor revealed that a change in the waterway caused by a Dizziness Road has been made in progress with the Roadmaker, does it fit? Does road transport count as an additional cost in the parking lot, above the Gufunes? In answer to that question, we read: There were changes in the orbit of the Sunways of Gufunes in 2018 where a new road was moved in conjunction with a shared group in Gufunesi. That work was cooperated with the city of Reykjavík. The change did not meet cost assessment. There's little answers, and there's still no way to determine what was planned for the Dwamp, which had come to be available or at construction level in 2006, reminds me. In 2011 these projects were stopped because of society's status, which was for ten years, which ends 2021, but there is no known plan for progress. Reykjavíkurburg has prevented the estimated road line from being able because some of the property has been assigned to this section. It is strange to see that Reykjavíkurburg does not want to pay for traffic from the city in the west, as officials would like to continue to travel all the mornings in Mosfellstown and to reduce safety and safety. It's as if we're going all the way along. V.E.G. President. I'd like to be put on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u84	Mr. President. I have been dealing with large international airports, Reykjavík, Akureyri Airport, and Eglish Standard Airport. I'm going to stop by this discussion for a while, though, of course, there are plenty of other airports to discuss. I hope there's a chance for other members of Congress, or I might come over. back to the subject. But what I had planned to discuss now is the transport situation in the capital area, i.e. Car transportation, family car. We members of the Central Party are sometimes asked by representatives of the other classes: "If you don't want a city line, what do you want to do about it? First, of course, it is advisable not to go on tasks that will make things worse, as if a city line is going to do by severely slowing down traffic in the most important transport areas. Second, the structure of the transport system allows traffic to be distributed around the Iceland capital area in accordance with its nature. You see, the nature of the structure of the structure needs to be viewed when designing a means of transportation. In this context, consider an article that Gestur Ólafsson wrote in the Morning magazine this week, which is a very skilled Organizer, architect, former director of the Office of the capital. In the article entitled Program, which provides both savings and less pollution, Gestur initially mentions that most people who learn about urban planning will soon find out how important it is that it is easy and practical to put a system of irrigation away from future settlements and to organise a system that serves the residents well. This is a key when the development of the building is to plan for the immediate development of road transport to move people to and from the settlements. But then says a little lower, by permission of a president: Sadly, in the capital area, these issues have not been given the attention they deserve over the past few decades and can be said to be able to save billions of people of this area each year, to reduce pollution significantly, and to help facilitate communication and valuableness by taking these matters necessary. Then there is a review of how a change in organizational law was achieved, i.e. Authority over organizational matters in Iceland, 1998 when the planning of the organization was nearly complete from the State to the rural community. It went far beyond most other countries have done in this regard. The government, in fact, gave up virtually all power over these matters, and I have previously criticized that I believe that this was a bad thing. In fact, a Gestur points out that with a so - called national organization until 12 years, the State tried to scratch the bank only, but it does not reveal what to do if there is a difference between the state and the local community. I guess that's just the planning and local attitude. This has caused a great deal of trouble, especially in the case of Reykjavík, for the making of the city's Dizziness Way, to be said, misused by the planning authority to block the waterway, an enormously important project that should be made possible to transport traffic to and from the city and within the city. According to a gestur, if other countries, such as the United States and Germany, had done the same, these countries would never have produced a highway system, the masoons were famous in Germany, or the American highways that lie between them. I'm just beginning this discussion, Mr. President, and I'm asking the President to register me again on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u85	Mr. President. I've been reviewing the review of Dr. Trausti Valsson's review of the city line, which is one of our chief Organizers at the University of Iceland, Professor emeriatus and architects. I've said it's only natural that we listen to our major organizational experts when we discuss such a big matter as a city line because it involves a vast amount of projects that cost much money. That is why it is perfectly natural for a person to listen to those who are well - known in the seminary, and Trausti has made very interesting comments about the project. He's talking about the city line and he says here, by permission of the President: ▪ In a hurry, you might think that your lines could save costs, e.g. in stockways or in traditional streets. Sadly, that would be very small. Ten years ago, Hbsv set [i.e. The capital area] in cooperation with Ögmundur [Jónasson's] transport minister, taking the billion who have taken the first steps since the state of the country each year, and leaving the money to the bus for ten years, i.e. a total of 10 billion. This agreement has meant that in the founding system [many] have not been given important tasks, they accumulate, and the necks of a bottle have come into existence. This has now become an urgent solution. Once it has been done, traffic begins to flow normally again. Trausti emphasizes that much of the problem in times of stress is due to the failure of money to take the course it should have taken. However, it was put forth effort to increase the use of a bus that has not since returned what humans were hoping for. Then, with permission from the President, Trausti mentioned a basic task in the root - line system: In such neglected projects, the government's budget will have to go over the next few years. The appearance of a city line at some future time will not solve such problems. Interestingly, there is a 400 - foot - wide [400 m] belt along the line of the city where it stands to build very tightly. He counts the population as being very unattractive and says that it really is the worst thing about the city line. The city line is accompanied by the so - called recording area of the lines of about 400 - foot [400 m] board to both hands. In these areas, Trausti likely feels that it is not too far for people to go to the platform. That may be the idea of going to the station soon enough. He continues: ▪ In these uptake regions, today much fewer residents live than is needed to survive the movements of the lines. Therefore, the organizational proposal assumes that, in both ways, the city line will be built into a dense block structure, with about one building. Twice the population in the recording areas until 2040. It is in these narrow line areas that most of the new apartments on hbsv [i.e. The capital area] is to be raised, with a population that corresponds to the present combined population of Kapavog and Hafnar. The benefits of living in these blockers are short on a bus or on a train, but there are many negative factors: the density of the areas and large numbers of houses up to the lines means that there would be little about parks and parking areas. A line like that, in addition, never to be a fun center town, but to be built long and boring. This is what one of our chief strategist, Trausti Valsson, says when discussing the city line and the plans for it. I think it's true that this is true because we should listen to those who are familiar with these topics. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I see that time has passed and if you would kindly ask the president to put me back on the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u86	President. During my final talk, I noted that I would discuss views that have been presented by a skilled professor, Professor emerius Jónas the son of Elíasson, around the around the gates of the so - called city line. He raises the question, Is the bus not a threat to environmentalism, as he puts it, but his answer is: No. By permission of the president, Professor Jónas, the son of Elíasson, quoted an article published in the May 14 issue of this magazine.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: No, no, no, The bus today spends about 45 litres on the hundred, with larger carriages likely going up to 60,480. The average ten people in each wagon (likely almost seven today) give an spending of about five gallons [5 L] per 100 per person, the same or rather more than a good tv van. Other than that, every man pays about 500 bucks for taking a bus, but the real cost is about 1,500 bucks. A taxi for two costs about 3,000 bucks, spending about five gallons [5 L] per person. It was about the city side. Mr. President's drop score to the Councillor's court. It may not be a coincidence that to form members of the Independence Party, they should not be seen here in this discussion because based on the words that occurred yesterday on the part of one of them, the other. 1st. Smoke. For example, Sigríður of the Ásthildur of Andersen is no more than that the Independence Party is not complete and exclusive to these proposals. In her speech, she calls the city line ▪ the so - called city line ◯ and says it completely unexplored. She says that considering the situation today, there seems to be no hand in the fixture of a city line. In addition, it says that this so - called city line is expected to contain 50 billion people, but do not ignore simple, practical roads in Reykjavík, which are effective very quickly, and are also cheap. Moreover, it says that there will no longer be pleasure in the failure of the crossholes at the Grand Ways and Highways and Great Railways and Grensás, which are called fragile, it says, several billion of the money thoughtd in a city line, an entirely unattainable phenomenon. paritaprevir It's going on. Andersen. She adds, by permission of the President: Unfortunately, in this transport program, half of the funds intended to travel to the capital area are being handled by infrastructure, while half of the phenomenon that humans have only sadly chosen to ignore, i.e. ... ina public transport. ◯ She continues to say that she is not speaking at public transportation. There is no evidence to see that the party of the Independence Party stands complete and exclusive in these proposals. Then I will allow myself to give a witness to great majesty in the Independence Party, former Minister and General for many years Bjarnason. Quoting from former Professor Trausti Valsson, he quotes him in line, inhabited near the city line, certainly offered to be close to the city line but would view signing as dead, ugly, and boring. In addition, this structure would stand in contrast to the local community's cohesion patterns. The conclusion of Björn Bjarnason's son is the easiest and fastest way to free the people from this terrible attack on Dagur B. Egertson and his geniuses are to reject them in the election on May 26. This was the honor of the Independence Party, and they know the natural position of the former head of the Independence Party, the prime minister of many years, and the editors of the Morning Press on this phenomenon, such as the oceanhv. þm. It's going on. Sigríður calls it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Clearly, there is a clear explanation for the absence of the Independence Party here. [[The president calls.]] They don't stand complete, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u87	Mr. President. I can't deny that I'm in a place like what I'm doing. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Isleifsson speaking here. I listened attentively to a talk. paritaprevir It's going on. Andersen the other day. However, there is something else that will reveal to us the problems of independence by means of a transport plan and by the city line of thought. First, the independence party's point in Reykjavík has not been a declared supportive guide for setting up a city line in the way it has been called. True, a city line has been proclaimed in so many conflicting ways that he may feel sorry for not taking a stand for what is now the taste of the month, if we can call it that way. Special Agent of the Independence Party, Ólafur Kr.. Guðmundsson, one of Iceland's biggest traffic specialists, who long served as an employee of an international network for traffic security, has written articles and put together information that shows how the mayor's share is deliberately closing in the roadway of Sunwater. And so it seems, Mr. President, I think I mentioned this in a previous speech, that on June 17th, the day of last, on holiday day, they were lying on the ground in Reykjavík, they were building houses, and there were concrete projects in Gufunesi, where they were being placed somewhere of a place to live. They're putting it on the Daffy Way. On the other side is setting up a temporary house for people who, we should say, live on the edge, is homeless, and does not have a home to eat. They've set up a foundation for the fine people in the Daffy Way. You would have thought that other locations might have been more favorable, both for this vulnerable group and for the city, i.e. that the smallest of our brothers and sisters were somewhere closer to the center of the capital area, not on the edge, just so that the good people, as you say, come to and see. Ólafur has been writing and recording a lot of material on this subject that I'm sure will need to consider in my next talks because of this behavior shown by the city in Gufunesi and elsewhere. There is, in fact, something else that is now incontrovertible, there is a mishappen at the Bland Road and Breedholt Road conventions. There are many conventions, many of which have been accidents. Mr. President, we're all trying to stop them from being set up. Those living in the city of Reykjavík are no doubt aware that the speed of traffic that is just up to Breinholt in the afternoon is especially due to traffic signals that slow down all traffic. That is why it is incomprehensible to think that one would try to prevent this indiscriminate road model from being set up there. I've got to go through this better and I've got Ólafur K's attitudeKr. The son of Guðmundsson, in my next speech, is the highest. President to sign up for me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u88	V.E.G. President. I'm going to continue learning about the Scottish route and cite a report made by a group of industrial development partners and the national environment, which were specifically designed to answer key questions. It is an excellent piece, as I said here last, and I am here to discuss social and economic benefits to the country. It's supposed to improve quality of life, and I think it's totally correct. It may be expected that this will add to the social involvement in the capital of all the people, as is said here. It is claimed that there will be a lower rate of flights known when this is a discount, and we can also wonder if this will not ease the stress of our country's roads. Then, with the permission of the president, it says: In many parts of the country, services such as health care have been cut down at the same time as is extended in the capital area. Thus, the ADS◯ - or Scottish way - will make it easier for the population of the country to attend a jointly paid basic service that they do not receive in their own community. I think this is a very significant statement because there must be something called legal basic services, and it should not only be given in the capital area. I don't completely agree with this point. It involves giving up if, in fact, it implies that we are accepting basic health services to the capital area and that we need to buy a decommissioned flight. Even if the flight is down, let's say 50%, if we go all the way the Scottish way, there's always 50% left. I can't quite think about it for people of the country. It is claimed that the management conditions of airlines would be strengthened, and I don't doubt it, and that there would be more use. This goes hand-to-hand. Of course, if we're going to accept cutting down basic services in the country and that it's acceptable that we go all the way to the capital area, then, of course, this is the best case. But I'm not entirely sure that people generally agree with them. In those meetings where I sit with members of my district, wherever they may be, they certainly fight for the affairs of my district, if I can say so. But at the same time, it's totally happening on this watch, so I'm a little tired of it. The report reports that this will last for a long time, i.e. that this plan will be in the future, if I can say so. It has been going on in Scotland since 2005 and seems to be working very well there. Of course, you need to make sure that there is money in all of this, and the question is, considering how everything is looking in the state now, whether it really is possible to go into this whole thing, which might be a good idea, but the question is always practical.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u89	President. I'd like to have a place to say. A member of the Parliament because she is from the Northeast District and was merely included in her case. I understand the concern of certain things she did well. But in the two transport programmes we're discussing here, and I don't talk about other primarys that are closely related to this and that are in this transport package, there is an enormous amount of transport improvement in the ideal situation. Senator. I would like to ask myself: " What is the point of making transportation? A senator pleased with us and wants us to start coming to work as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u90	President. So I'll tell you what. I've been talking about the safety of a pilot because I think that's gotta be more important. I'm not worried about the big airports in my own district, but we're still talking about the L.A.L.L. Airport being improved, not a runway. Then we have a hospital in Norway. It was the locals who, along with the government, did this work to adjust the situation so that the hospital flight could land there. Yet, I've read the long - term transport program, so that airlight equipment needs to be fixed so that 100% will be available to use the airport. This leads me back to Eglish Airport because patients are flown to Eglish in a medical plane and then they have to take a car to North ground. It causes some uncertainty, and to complicate the situation further, it is often involved. There's a CT scan on the North East. He's not at the Egls, and I know that the local people at Egls' headquarters have repeatedly pointed out that it would improve safety, especially tourists, who do not go beyond the location of Egls. If they have an accident, they have to be driven to Norway to drive them back to Eglish State, where a medical flight awaits them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u91	President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I have to describe a slight disillusionment where I asked you what was wrong. A senator would be pleased with what was found in a transport program. But that's okay. This is not what I have been most disappointed with in this discussion. You see, I would have thought that was what. A senator would be pleased with what part her district receives in a transport program and would join us in the pursuit of many projects. Should we mention a significant shortening of the road by making Axar Road proper, hanging out with a cooperative project? It has been waitin' decades, and it is essential to a uniting partner in a prime problem. The senator, who is called after, has said that she is just waiting for the approval of a transport programme, to agree with a work programme that is closely linked to a transport program to start now. Not next year - now. But, hey. A senator and his colleagues of the pack, a crew that wants to delay all projects, cannot make a decision, and needs 20 to30 speeches each to delay national activities in their own terms. [[Up front.]] They are preventing the operation of Axi. I'd like to ask you why. A senator is prepared to direct his voters in the East, who are about to unite the countryside and wait for us to complete a transport plan and cooperation so that they can start working with Axi. What's the group going to say to that?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u92	As far as I'm concerned, there's nothing in the way of starting with Axi. [[Up front.]] The road has complete access to the task. It just needs to be asked out and we're not stopping it here, so they say, because there's a plan going on. I know that Northeast District is not at the top of a 10 list of priorities while we're about to put 50 billion in a city line that services 4% of users, as is the situation today. That's what I'm repeatedly pointing at. [[Up front.]] I think it's very unfair to all other people that we're putting such money into the 4% of those who are now using public transportation. I don't think it's fully trying to attract more people into public transportation. I can't say that I like something. Yet, I can echo the words of many in my district, who are very grateful for every cent they receive. They are so grateful that they are speechless of the money to be placed in the city line of 50 billion. At whose expense? Possible security for residents, just to be told.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u93	It's worth less than...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u94	V.E.G. President. I'm going to continue with this questionnaire that I mentioned in my last talk from the Environment and Transport Committee on May 19th. There are three questions I was going to take for granted. First of them is the city line: Is there an analysis of where the BRT cars are intended in the general flow of traffic? That. where there is a narrow cut off on the cross-section Here's what the judge's reply to: The first work of a city line is viewed as a different cross section design aimed at building new lanes for the city's special space and using existing lanes for special space. The benefits and defects of different solutions are evaluated. Where the structure is dense and the street space is narrow and cannot be extended well, the carriages are proposed to drive in the mixed traffic. The reconstituted traffic will likely be on a part of city streets, Billway, Red River Road, and Catherinen, the Ringway between South and Bjarkar Street, if that is the case. [...] Along with initial work is being assessed for environmental impact, where citizens and stakeholders have the opportunity to present their comments [...] The next question is related, about traffic models for the capital area, status and area of rural society. The answer says: ▪ Final work is being done in a new transport model showing car traffic, public cars, and motorists for 2024, 2029, and 2034 compared to the projects planned by the transport contract. The model work is the cooperation project of the Vega and SSH under the control of the city's construction agency. The model will be ready in the summer of 2020 and will be owned by the Roadmaker and SSH. The road will host the model after it is ready and will care for its outside, and the road structure and rural society in the capital area will be able to use the model for future projects. It's a model no one knows what it looks like today because it's supposed to be ready this afternoon. Here on the program is a petition for the establishment of a public society that will oversee this cooperation project of six rural societys in the capital area. The power of elected agents is included in this, or their approach to this matter is extremely minor. But we're going to vote for this company's establishment and, as the answer says, it's not yet been prepared at this city line, how it should be done, how to operate. At some expense, 50 billion people are being shot, and more are also spoken of. It is also stirring the distance and other factors, so it is somehow totally up to the ceiling. The politicians have nothing to do with this but to establish an official part of the network that will be handed over to manage these projects and thereby have some authority over the rural communities that will have to work accordingly. We don't like what's going on here. V.E.G. President. I wish to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u95	V.E.G. President. In a speech or two. paritaprevir Sigrimurs Á. Andersen gives us a number of interesting warnings about transport in the capital area. Among other things, in her fine speech, the so - called city line, as the senator put it, is laid out in particular in her mind, which is an unattractive phenomenon. A city line is completely unexplored, and it has, of course, been found in the data we have seen. Now there's some show going on at the City Hall, I think, where it's being shown one version of it. At the very least, it has been difficult to find out exactly what it is. One of the things people talk about in public transport is that it's good for the climate, and it's probably good if there's a measure of traffic back there, but I don't remember seeing any research to show that the private car is going to contract. Then you will start filming these buses, which are likely to cover diesel oil or something like that. What makes me even more confused about all this, tops. The president, who is one of the main promoters of this city line or instigators of the greater part of Reykjavíkurburg's planning and transportation Council, points to the importance of looking at them from climate recommendations, for example, as well as to mention the outbreak of Korean virus and the quality of the future generation. Here, the chairman of a planning and transport Council spoke of the European Union setting up two trillion euro to set up quick train systems around Europe, as it says here. That's what I'm wondering, my chief. President, whether this is part of the city line as chairman of the Committee is writing about in a Facebook entry. Is the idea really connecting trains and buses? Or who really is the mobilization on the city line? At the very least, the chairman of this city's council says that there should be a careful look at the pros and cons of train transport for people and goods. I wondered, then, if it's not right to grant this fine councilman's wishes, or the chairman of the planning and transportation council, to stop everything that happens in the city line and put it aside and consider very carefully the benefits of train transportation. If they can replace a city line or cooperate with it, then, in view of what is actually said, it must be investigated. I want to roll up, chief. President, whether it is right to take the matter to the outside city line and to store it all, and to state on the transportation plan that the city line is set on ice because it needs to be examined more carefully by members of the city line of the capital, whether it is a train transport or something else. At least it's a little confusing, so you can say the same thing with a bang. paritaprevir Andersen that this is a completely unexplored phenomenon and not clear what the city line is going to do. Of course, this transport and public transportation policy is remarkable, for at the same time, people cannot increase their faith in public transportation. Close, top dog. Mr. President, to stop always rolling up some new outlanders like trains or trains, or whatever it is called all of it, and focus on making the system we have today better, increasing bus loads, increasing frequency. I'm sure it can be considered somewhere, without my knowledge of it, the highest. President, to increase the priority of a bus in some way. At the same time, it will certainly have to go through the quality of transportation and take a quiet look at all of this, as it does not always work with new emphasis or swinging back and forth as it seems to be at the capital, leaving a train on a train and all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u96	Mr. President. I had begun to review the importance of building platforms in the capital area, but I can't resist to point out the obvious, that these are members of Congress, and some of the U.S. Assembly and the left movement, have become extremely small in this matter, and have begun to express themselves in a peculiar way in community areas. This is where the government's exorcists appear with the same message that the Central Party is shutting down transport projects in Iceland. People who speak like this do not feel very strongly about the intelligence of their potential voters, but it is obvious that they are discussing how better they can handle transport in Iceland, how better to protect money than planned by a transport program, is not meant to damage transport, quite not, on the contrary. I encourage the people who are concerned and imagining, or trying to claim, that even if we have an additional meeting to honor us here on Saturday they will stop all transport projects for the future. I encourage these people to participate rather in the discussion and to review with us why it is best to do things the way they suggested and respond to our better - to - be - true. However, back to the footway in the capital area. I was referring to the Gestur son of Ólafsson's article that appeared in the Morning Press this week, which emphasizes the importance of notably planning ahead and planning ahead. In a masterful way, he describes it in this article. I'm going to quote it directly, with the permission of a president: In recent decades, many methods have been developed to avoid handling matters in a practical way. It is common to discuss matters so blurred that it is impossible for the common people to recognize what is meant and what the consequences will be; some future vision is not known, and someone was given to draw a beautiful color - or the case was simply referred to as selected honorable men who come to a conclusion by a cloth and a disc. Yet, it is known long ago that for a project to be called something that is being said to be the aims of ◯ it will have to meet at least Four conditions: It must be defined and measurable; funding must be ensured; it must be timed and someone must be responsible for the project. If we cannot talk about an organization like that, we might as well let it go. This has been the problem, especially in the capital area. They are listed and displayed in the cornea, but it is not a decision to go into the process and it is not a trust fund. And now we're seeing so clearly in this transport program that we're missing the funding. The long-term plan for 15 is that of the rest and that, but the budget is missing. Even wording is used as I quoted the last or last talk: There is a need to find ways to finance it. And one of the ways in which people now speculate is an increase in wages on the common people by what was formerly called taters and has now been rephrased as inversely as it is today. It is not even known how to collect these charges. It is a transport program that is based on a planned payment by the public, but it seems that people have no idea how to collect the fees. As Gestur says in the article: "The origination of footways in the capital area has a sad story. I don't have the time to get more involved in the sad story he describes well. But that's the word. It's a sad story, but I don't talk about it after the construction stop was put on a decade ago. I'm waiting for the highest. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u97	Mr. President. I've been in my previous talks a review of a statement made by Dr. Trausti Valsson, an executive at the University of Iceland, has been published on the basis of a city line. There is much interesting in this regard, and it is essential that members of the Parliament study what one of us is chief planning specialists has to say about the city line. Next, I'd like to go to a review issued by Dr. Haraldur Sisorsson, a city-based traffic Sigþórsson. An interesting point is highlighted in this article. Here are traffic experts, traffic engineers, expressing themselves. It is essential in this discussion, Mr. President, that we listen to what those best familiar with in the jury have to offer. The matter is not just as much as the other item in the city of Reykjavík presents it, with all the benefits he lists. It's just not like that. Many are the negatives of the project. We also have to listen to experts, not just to those who are in favor. We also need to listen to those who have criticized their assignment. A person must have an acdemic and critical thought, as we say, in a language very large and especially costly for a wealth of money. Dr. Haraldur says, with permission from the President: ▪ An illogical wishful thinking is presented in the motion. For example, the word "wheat " is in the air. Area planning expected four times the number of passengers between the bus and 2040. Most of those who have dealt with this party see that this goal will never be achieved. First, in recent years only the number of passengers has been increased by several percent at several cost. - We've only traced it in this discussion. Second, after the collapse of 2008, there was a lot of social crisis, which reduces car traffic, but with the economy, the number of cars is growing again and the traffic is increasing. This calls for other scenarios for the future. That is correct, and of course we should learn from the experience in these matters. Then Dr. Haraldur discussed the environment of the proposed city line. He says it's very out - of - line, even dangerous. He quotes the suggestion: ◯ There is a narrow street image shown without security areas and, for example, for example. Must be remembered, passengers in the fins that are shown in the center of the game - which are natural just buses - must get in and out of the wagons that call space. They must also, in any case, cross the street that would otherwise not be needed if waiting stations were in the lanes of the street, but this arrangement calls for clear corridors or track lights. So here we are talking about an area close to the city line. He's talking about parking lots and green areas, that they're gone because of a high construction mass that's supposed to be along the line to be supported by those who live there to take the city line. ▪ The circumstances of our lives are important to people, as are shops and services. If the parking lot is to disappear into a basement, it is inaccessiblely expensive and unnecessary in this area. Then he talks about the buildings to be built on a 400 - meter belt at the line, and he says, by permission of the president: The dogs are just down the street. Have men, e.g. calculated sound and air pollution on the buildings? Likely, the side facing the street must be a gray wall. Middle-town space environment is being distributed across the suburbs along the city line. There is no need for this to be done, for Reykjavík is a small city with scattered settlements, and it will be a late city. It will prove impossible to get the approval of citizens and owners for as much change as a decrease in value of possessions. Indeed, it has been said that the city's possessions are being affected, so the population has been protested, especially when it comes to fewer parking lots and reduced view. Mr. President. I see that my time has passed and will continue in my next talk about these comments made by Dr. Haraldur Sigthorsson, a traffic Sigþórsson. I wish to be reassigned to the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u98	Mr. President. If a person seeks to look over the scene, it may be clear to any who have followed these discussions that we are dealing with a problem that is really wrong. This is closely related to a subject nearest to the program for the establishment of a public community that should carry various factors, especially the city line. This is so defective that I understand that the members of the majority of the classes representing this case, representatives of the classes that appoint the city of Reykjavík, who exert a great deal of zeal in this so - called city line, should not be seen at this discussion. Why would that be? First of all, this priority is not preconceivable, putting 50 billion of public funds into a city line. Clearly, humans do not trust to defend it. In view of what Thorin's big - eyed Hjaltason in March of March, one does not trust to defend himself in the effort to achieve the same objective in public transportation that is aimed at this so - called city line with a few billion while here it is intended to place in the Netherlands, the most valuable building force in the capital area, after this. Clearly, humans do not rely on this protection. Clearly, the spokesmen of this case do not rely on them to discuss cost schemes. They do not trust themselves to discuss alternative plans from these cost programs. They do not trust themselves to discuss factors that could cause them to exceed expenses. They do not rely on a profit - making analysis on this project or on the fact that despite efforts to increase the number of people on bus, the proportion of bus users has not changed for years or little or nothing, sitting and splint in 4%. There is no reason to believe that there are 50 billion people to be assigned to a project that is to be served 4How5% while 95% of the people choose other routes and choose the family car. Mr. President. We Middleclass people speak for wise solutions based on reason and on the basis of knowledge. We have here quoted each professional and scholar after another who describes a very serious problem in this city line to form Jónas the son of Elíasson, who says that the efforts regarding public transportation do not arise under the name, it is community service to those who do not have their own cars. He also calls it a station service. If this was to stand up to the name of public transportation, there would be more than 4% using it. But perhaps the most difficult part, Mr. President, is that the independent party is clearly divided in this matter, as is clearly shown by the speech of a young man. Senator and former minister of a private government, Sigríður of the Ásthildur of Andersen. She doesn't mention a city line, at least For the most part, except to call it a city line and call it a completely unattractive phenomenon, it says twice. It also says that as a smoker, we need to make a deal with the city of Reykjavík for continued construction stop in Reykjavík, with the reduced quality of life of Smoke and the loss of traffic. Here's a document. It's Sigríður Á. Andersen. Here's a document for Björn Bjarnason's blog record, Your Majesty of the Independence Party, which is clearly the same. I'll lead to the morning paper and write to it. [[The president calls.]] This case is called Andersen Documents. [[The president calls.]] The Andersen documents bring it out, Mr. President, that the Independence Party is broken down in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u99	Mr. President. In this talk, I will talk about public transportation in Reykjavík, but I can't start my talk any other way. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttirsson Proppér, the people are now on the road, roller coasters, and farms on both sides of Axes Road, up to the Valley of Skull and down to the Berry Fjord, waiting for the middle party to stop talking. It's a lawsuit that's naturally below all the caves, Mr. President, and not a word of devouring, but I had to let it go anyway. I'd like to go through some public transportation in Reykjavík. The mayor's share and the people who want to pay the bill for it at the council are prepared to provide approximately 50 billion for something that will make public transportation possible, instead of improving existing ones, such as men have done. In Alaburg and beyond. But it's so strange that in the middle of all this talking about improving public transportation, the mayor's share in Reykjavík is pressing public transportation, not only to them, but also to everyone else passing through the city. Let me give you two examples: Another example is the city of Geirsgatan, in Reykjavík, where it is now scheduled to squeeze so much that if the bus is going there and needs to get passengers or take passengers, no one will move. It's not that bad in the city, but about that. Just as bad. If a bus has to pick up passengers or let out passengers, traffic will almost be stopped. But then there may be the greatest genius of all, Mr. President --I don't like to be very thorough, but I don't think I've ever seen it anywhere where I've ever come up a bus stop in the middle of a morning like the one that's been done west of Melum. When people were asked about it, I think the explanation was somehow that way, I'll be corrected if I'm wrong, that, really, the morning was not a ringorg but a round drive. It takes a natural ability to reach such a conclusion. That's why I'm wondering, I haven't yet seen that the so-called city line is going west on Mela, but it's hard to see how it should, e.g. To stand between afflictions upon Birkimel. It's very difficult to imagine it, except that if the city line is described as it is, some super Street car, maybe with two to three connections or chariots, I think it would be hard to go through Hagah Square if a bus of that size stopped in the middle of the Hague Square in front of a Hotel story to run out passengers or pick up passengers. So I'm saying it's all in the only book learned from these subjects in the capital area, unfortunately. And when men are walled like this - and I have to say, too, because I mentioned the lack of access to the city country, Mr. President, that this tribulation on Birkimel is part of it. In Birkimel, unopposed traffic back and forth, has become very tight, and is one more way to narrow the way for those on the west side of the city, on the Seltananes. All these hardships are natural factors, say one man, to throw the private car or the family car to row, which is evil for those who have to use a family car. Nevertheless, if public transportation is to be paid, they will not do so by narrowing down streets like Geirsway, which is also being added to the oil exports, as I will go further into the second talk, or by setting up a bus stop on the middle of a phone morning. I kind of need to look for if there's such a thing anywhere and let it be mentioned in the next talk that I'm going to ask the president to sign me up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u100	V.E.G. President. I think I'm about to be through the Scottish route. I've gotten some information about it, and I've come to the section on financing and when you can start. Based on this information, it is possible to start as soon as funding is available, and, of course, it takes some months to find a strategist who is involved and how best to implement it. In previous talks, I have made it clear that they are expected to take advantage of the Scottish route that is located in designated territories or that has a legal home. Those who benefit from this are the service employers in the capital area, spoken of as they are turning toward increasing access to people from the region to services in the capital area. It's also up to you to see if this operation, the Scottish way, takes on someone. Then I come back to the critical point of increasing access to the capital capital, which may weaken basic services in the home and weaken the foundations of various services. We are usually closer to trying to maintain that service. In my first speech, I mentioned that the people of the North East have stood with their people there, so this is a bit of a concern to me. The parallel effect of services being performed in the capital area further reduces the service around the country. Here is an example that I find important to come up with, by permission of the president: ▪ A resident at Icefjord, which today will have to pay about 44.300 bucks. for flights to Reykjavík and back when the accounting company is short, it might be possible to fly to Reykjavík by 22,150 k. if you had ADS. For these people, this could have a dramatic effect on whether he is going to show up for his brother's 40th birthday. The cost of other means of getting to Reykjavík in time and money depends on what is included in the calculation; fixed costs, variable costs, time to drive, etc. This is not necessarily an example of service but of birthday. That's what I may be able to sign, so to speak, that this subsidies should include not cutting off the benefits of services that are available to people in their homes. So we're wondering if this support will be useful to every airport in the country. Then I want to return again, for we have a smaller airport all around the country that needs good maintenance and the importance of keeping it in our hands. Then it is a question of whether this affects tourism. It may be noted that this will even contribute to improved tourism, and the services should be useful both to tourists and to local residents, although tourists do not have access to the Scottish route. But it always remains that I fear that services, even legal services, will gradually be taken down into smaller settlements in the country. So the question to me is, Is this true?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u101	V.E.G. President. I spoke in a talk earlier today about rejection, and as a result, I would like to take it down, since it had shown that the role of the ransom fund had been changed significantly by the changed law of 2003. This is from a pan-European committee of the environment and transport committees: ▪ The EEA considers the need for new and more comprehensive perspective on the maintenance need to reject and the needs of the rural society for new projects. The legal programme of Habituary Fund is made clear only in the five - year - old process of transport, but no overall policy has been established in protests. The work of the European Commission on transport programmes has shown that any large and nationally important rejection projects are available that are not in the negative budgets, nor are they mentioned in the revised transport programme. The harbor in Deepvogur, which needs to be enlarged in order to help others arrive with cruise ships and the landing of farms for slaughter, and a new country in St. Louis. To promote the development of cohesion and salmon farms in southern Western Europe, a further increase in Bilddal Harbor is needed. So in these areas, there is a sharp appeal for waterfronts and ports to be deepened because ships are many who become the deepest and the greatest, and they need space to work themselves to the docks. Then there is the security point in the scattered areas of the country that ports can receive large ships or larger ships than they normally do in these areas for transport, transportation security projects, that if all roads are shut down and the weather is very bad, ships can be rejected in emergency situations. It's not like that all around the country at all. You can, for example. Please note that our largest and finest watcher, Thor, is very large and deepest. Then it says: The study has shown that past maintenance needs to be revised, but it has to take place without warning depth because of unexpected changes affecting port depth. Under such circumstances, funding has not been sufficient for government protests, and harbors had to be fully financed for a period of time. It has also been necessary for the separation of depth, emergency depth, while the total depth has been delayed until financial support is obtained. Ecorruption is associated with the high cost of transporting depth equipment at the site of work. An example of this is an emergency depth at the Lehnól harbor, but the Road Type agreed on a contribution to an emergency depth to ensure continued work at the site but failed to complete the work for the current financial resources. The rest of it is 60 billion. K. which the local community needs to draw from [...] In this case, the rural society will have to keep its supply until financial support is restored. This is something that needs to be revised very much and that is very important. As I said in the previous talk about these matters, rejections and ports have gone far away for far too long, so they need to be spitd on and hopefully they will. V.E.G. President. I wish to be reassigned to the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u102	Mr. President. We've discussed some things in a transport program. The greater part and smaller part, the lesser part of which includes at least two, have been warned of, and, of course, the fairness of doing good things. First, I want to commend people for trying to improve in various places. At the same time, in terms of the greater part, there is a long list of what to do and speed up and add if space is created, i.e. If additional funds can be initiated. We must wonder whether this situation has not changed in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic that has raged and upset the income of state funds, and we face a huge increase in debt from the state fund. Then you might ask yourself, " Is it appropriate to give the expectations of speed and improvement in 20 to 30 projects? ' But you can understand that members of the council who have been up to the Watch want a list of projects that have been pushed into a hurry. In the last two talks, I've been thinking about the unity in the board of directors on these issues. It is clear that at least The independent party does not agree completely with one another on the emphasis on the matter, nor is it surprising. Throughout history, this class has been a little close when it comes to various matters. But there seems to be some crack in what's interesting. I remember two members of an independent party who have spoken in this discussion and must state exactly as it is that they come a little off their side of all of this together. On the one hand, it's the other. paritaprevir It's going on. Andersen, on the other hand. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir. I'mlittleing neither senator's opinions, but it's very unusual that when it comes to the Independence Party, it's so black and white. Of course, there is also a very strange yet another change in the policy of the forward movement for transport. There's quite a lot of them now. The category has, for example, a class. Signed to this city line, as discussed here, without really flashing, despite having spoken against the project recently. Of course, the group you used to know here is not like sight. Just as it is in transportation, the rounding process is complete when it comes to policy. Depending on how things have developed there, they may not necessarily have to be surprised. It's interesting to see that in your talk. paritaprevir Sigríður On. Andersen is the carrying-off in Reykjavík over the past few years, and he does not need to be surprised because the focus has been on it. In his speech, the senator, with the permission of a president, says: As I said earlier, I rejoice that there are public transportation, but there has not even been a short ride here in Reykjavík running public transportation with ordinary buses. Rounding-and-go-round with a transport system and a frequency of travel. Nothing's run, nothing's worked. They have not even wanted to try to offer free access to a bus for a while to see if it would increase the participation, expected they would not have the guts in the city. Perhaps it would be an attempt to test it first and improve the public transport available here. Of course, it is the method that the mayor's share has had with the private car. Instead, he has put super - emphasis on public transportation, without the reality of their demeaningness. Now, the policy seems to be, in fact, with the support of Independence Party and Foreign Forces, to go into an even more circular way, completely into the uncertainty, with a project that costs tens of billions of dollars. Uncertainty is high, and even foreseeing that one way to reach what is going to happen in the city line will be far beyond the schedule, as has always been the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u103	President. During the last talk, I discussed the importance of building roads in the capital area so that they could come up with extreme needs with increased traffic in the capital area. This has been very low in these matters, especially in the past decade while the construction stop has been in effect. In fact, when the need was urgent, significant improvements were needed. Of course, the top of a magazine is the Daffy Way. How amazing it is to observe how the mayor's share is able to get away with continuous stones in the streets of that project, often in a very presumptuous way, and to prevent even the most practical way of living by various projects, to organize territory in a way that makes it more and more difficult to establish the Sunway! Of course, the state needs to be moving forward with the DWAlN project, which, as shown in the article by Gestur Olafs Ólafsson of the Organizer I referred to earlier, should have long been completed. Actually, it should have been done 40 years ago. Since the need has become urgent. At the end of my talk on the footways, I mentioned what has not been discussed in this discussion; the scheme for increased payment by road users. There are various ways of paying car owners, and these expenditures increase frequently each year, and in particular during the past few years, they have raised and added new fees, carbon bills, and other products called green taxes. But to get on top of it is too far off from the government against the taxpayers of the public. Of course, it would be understandable to have such a discussion if the currency was not already as high as it is and, in fact, it is large enough to include only about half of what is collected, by drivers, by car owners, in the construction of transport. Then I'm not even counting the merit tax on this whole thing. Only the high costs are so high that if they simply become new in transport, a spectacular effort, a real effort on transportation, i.e., could be made. a campaign that would be financed, not air throwers like the government and the mayor's share, will build and show us how clear we are. We need funding. It will be noted that with modified cars, for example, for example, to make up an increased use of electric cars, the state loses its opportunity to pay taxes and fees to the owners of such cars, taxes, and expenses collected through fuel. However, if the government were to simply want to change the rate of pay rather than increase the spells, it would be easy, together with plans for new ways to pay, to reduce or eliminate other fees. But will humans do so? I'm afraid not. After the government has taxed, the experience is usually that it remains there for a long time and goes up rather than the other. In this situation, while the common people are taxurized and drivers have to pay twice as much to use their country's roads as they go to build and maintain them, it is empty talking about new currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u104	Mr. President. I'm just going to continue my coverage of Dr. Haraldur Sigþórsson's traffic engineer through the city line. This is a driving expert who has a lot of experience in driving engineering and traffic construction, and it is well worth considering what he has to say on the subject. I've told you before, it's very important that we listen to experts in these topics, those most familiar in this category. Haraldur's particular point is that the approval of inhabitants and owners for as large a change as the violation of the value of their possessions will prove to be impossible because they are starting a new way through Reykjavík, a city line, which makes it possible for monuments to be removed. The city line will lie closer to various monuments, including residents' homes, and they will be cut off from their value. It's only enough to mention parking lots, reduced samples, etc. There are other comments on this matter from the people who are living, many of whom are deeply concerned about this matter. Also, it has to be examined by calculus models of traffic, with and without city lines, as well as by how it would have affected if the objective of regional cyclism and the use of public cars were not reached. Dr. Haraldur asks: Is it possible that the city line would be useless, an expensive experiment if a car tour continues to grow, even to the limit? There is few evidence that the conditions in transportation have changed so much since before a crisis. This also raises questions about making major changes in transport over the head, such as autopiloting cars, etc. Everything is going to change very fast. That's a lot of evolution. Then you ask: Is it reasonable to place so much money on a project that will then bind a specific means of transportation to the future, i.e. Public transportation and bus? Later, Dr. Haraldur says that the costs are very limited. The need for a much more precise collection of costs along with options is necessary. In this regard it is not enough to point out a projection plan, for it would be like designing a road and starting to account for the cost of sharing design. The setting up of the proposal is in many places, as is a book, which teaches the design of a organization rather than the idea of a real suggestion. Clearly, such a big issue as the city line takes a long time to grow, and people need to know the true scope of it. Moreover, the suggestions must be made detailed before it can be seriously discussed. Thus, in the opinion of traffic engineer Dr. Haraldur son of Sigþórsson, who has made eight comments on the city line, this proposal seems to be lacking, which is very informative and should, of course, be included in this discussion. I'd like next time to see how the matter has been discussed in the city of Reykjavík. There I look to the Independence Party. The independent party has particularly criticized the funding of this project. Investment is expected to be for 120 billion dollars, the state will contribute nearly 50 billion to the urban line, the 15 billion rural society, and a special funding that is responsible for the roads and sales of state estates of under 60 million. The total project is 120 billion, as we know it. Mr. President. I'll get into this in the next speech and ask him to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u105	Mr. President. Of course, when discussing such an important subject, it is necessary, as in other matters, that decisions and discussion are based on knowledge. When it comes to the flight, there's a very good review from Illelandanda Group. As I've mentioned in the previous talk, it's actually a company of knowledge like they're best. There's a lot of knowledge and aerospace experience. I had the opportunity to discuss in my first talk what is stated in the information about the importance of building up reserve airports. The Society reiterates the importance of the fast - paced design of a backup pilot. The Society emphasizes the importance of priorities and the spread of funds on the part of the government, not for building at many airports, but for the building up of adequate facilities in one airport that would then be the first final airport for the Cheflavour Airport. The Society has pointed out, as it shows, that the Egls base airport is best fallen for such building ups, including this. because there is a mountain far off, and it is convenient for the wind, and for the flight, and for the flight. It says that there is no need for large structure at the airport to become an adequate reserve airport. The Society expressed his opinion that no flight barns need to be built in order to meet these requirements, but it points out that this is a security problem. I'd like to make a decision and underline it, a flight security case. According to one estimate, the need for performance was limited to creating a position to receive adequate machines in an emergency. Following this discussion, Illelands Group proposes the solution to the problem that has come up, that Istavia will finance the necessary projects at the Lagis National Airport. The Society's opinion is that users of Keflavour Airport will not be financed by other airports with the related loss of Icelandic flying skills, while it is clear that such airports will not be run profitlessly. It would be reasonable to conclude that the flight arrangements would be funded from a government fund to the extent that the flight belles fail to accomplish, primarily on a well - developed project, as it is said. It also says that it is important to ensure that in time the city area of Reykjavík can continue to serve within the country until it is as good or as beneficial. To make this up, it is necessary to separate the structure of the backup airport from another possible structure for international flights to and from Akureyri and Bulgaria. This says that the company is an unplugged project and the facilities needed for each individual's complete separation. There are other very interesting points in this fine review that I may be given an opportunity to arrive later. I'm asking a respectable president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u106	Mr. President. I killed earlier on what appears to be the independent category of construction projects and transport issues in Reykjavík. I mentioned that I had stumbled on the subject that I had not yet found. But I had been helped to find this coverage by a good worker from the May 14 issue of this magazine. Which is a great day, as we all know, and the day of our ex- president Ólafur Ragnar the son of Grímsson. But it's an outcast. This report in the Morning paper describes the city as moving toward a Djord and, according to a deputy, the proposed construction of a home for the homeless outside a family organization and damaging the Dizziness Way. It also says, and there is a short picture, that a shovel was taken early in May that what the city calls the site of the future, a new neighborhood in Gufunesi, called the village, is to be a carless option that is possibly fine and right, although it is hard to imagine that people living in Gufunesi have no access to such things. But what might be worse is that roads and narrow waterways will move about a few meters and move them into an hill that is there, perhaps lying on a road that is used to cross the Grafarvogur called Coast Road. At any rate, it will cost a lot more money to go this way, to move the Sunway in this way, except for her coming after the entry, crossing the Eugsvík into Gingdanes, to the shores of peace that have been preserved. In this way, the mayor's greater part in Reykjavík is getting very tight. Well, that's what happened. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason, who is president of the night. Environment and Transport Committee, but the mayor came to the Commission for the projects there. Mr. President. I'm afraid this is bigger than you can see. It is not surprising that when we are entering the spring with such information and that it seems that we are growing more and more, we will want to take a deep discussion of the transport program. It is in itself simple for the mayor's section of Reykjavík to point here and there and say that this place is supposed to be a deck, which says Grand Way and Sea Route, because there is another person who pays for it. It is easy to be generous with other people's money. It is in itself serious, as we have been pointing to a number of times in this discussion, that there is a tightness to the fact that there is a swimming path, i.e. her bed, upset just once and try to choke her at the other end because, of course, the Volga killing side or the Saturday side. So now it is being said to squeeze to the other side of a swimming path, betraying a 22 - year - old promise to the Cjalnesian people. To be honest, Mr. President, it's pretty pathetic to face the fact that the city authorities act in this way. It is a question of whether this calls for a special discussion about why the waterway is out of the program and why it seems, on purpose, is the setting of its structure. But it's a little longer than it's possible to get over in this minute, so I'm asking the President to register again in a speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u107	V.E.G. President. I've talked about tunnels and the benefits of tunnels, and it's in my mind that the future mouse in transport is more likely to go to a tunnel where it is because of the fact that they are a much better long-term investment than not. I'd like to read here from the review of former senator and minister, Kristján L. Möller, on behalf of the 70 head and service members of the Sea of Siglusar, Ólabundy, and the River for the Allied Environmental and Transport Committee for the transport program discussed here. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The Lake of Keikosa to Siglufjörður has been shut down for 45 days from 10 des 2019 to March 24, 2020, due to snow and avalanche danger. A new tunnel from Sautilus to the River lays off this heavy snow and a difficult course of about 25 miles [25 km] long. This tunnel shortens the route to Siglugland about 15 miles. The spring tunnel between the Olafs and the seaships opened before traffic in 2010 have certainly proved their value and the completely altered living conditions of the region. One of the main reasons for the implementation at the time was that by means of the tunnel, Sigludur was based on the Eyjafjörður in a way that the rest of the Eyjafjörður's area would be a powerful antidote to the capital area and based on the center of the Northlands would be greatly strengthened. It's been going unmistakably. At the same time, 20 years ago, during the preparatory period of the work, the benefits of a circle linking with the coast of the Grinch would also be significant for rural areas in dominance, sailing, and Eyjafjörður, especially in tourism. The discussion made it clear that for the future, a tunnel would continue from Sigludar to the River the only practical option for such a circle, especially because of the condition of the public west of the Boywalks. It is about 25 miles [25 km] from Keriosus to the town line of Siglufjörður and lies about the so-called public. The road was built in connection with the opening of Boy March in 1967...-◯ Then it goes on to say about a tunnel between Siglusfjords and Rivers, a backup route through the Oxnadal island, and so on. So at the end it says: With the review of this wish, it wishes to be signed and encouraged. The Environment and Transport Committee as well as the General Parliament to set a tunnel between Siglust and river on the policy goal and re-evaluated transport programme of 2020-2034 and funding for the start of all the necessary preparatory studies as early as the first implementation of programme 2020-2024. Under this, 70 members write that there is a great deal of interest in this in the area as well as in other areas, and as I have presented in talks above, this is the part of the transportation process and of future policies that I would recommend in the future that a much more emphasis would be put on. Although more expensive, it is less expensive for the future as far as maintenance is concerned and so on. This review is so good to see how many local stakeholders share in writing under it. V.E.G. President. I wish to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u108	President. Thank you. A senator's excellent speech, perhaps primarily because he was in my home area at the ship's station. I heard why. A senator talks about and reviews a challenge that included the matter. Kettle's side of the river. I'd like to ask you a question. A senator brings up this challenge and how we, as members of the Parliament, can respond to it. The thought of those of us who do not wish to delay transport has been that the two underlying policy plans have to be made as soon as possible so that the road can start its preparations, its contracts, starting with what needs to be prepared so that soon it can be done. Then we'll have the government deal, and hopefully we'll put it aside just for a while. But I only mention it as part of this large body, which leads to transport for two-thirds of the country's population, i.e. The capital area, where all rural areas in the capital area have participated. Then we have a cooperation project. There are specific assignments. It's all a unit. Then we work on the future funding of the road system, when we have reached the goal that the oil costs will be gone because fossil fuels have disappeared, etc. Part of it is such a funeral plan, and to get into it, we need to take the step of accepting the issues presented here. And I'd like to ask who. A senator why he is opposed to taking any steps, why he wants us to delay working on a planned tunnel program, even in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u109	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér for his counter-sponsored response. I can't figure out how the Senator gets that we're stalling when we're discussing it. Transport is here for discussion. So, are we stalling them? I can't quite figure it out. I just say that in terms of planouts like this, they need to have their conversations, and people need to take time to prepare them. I don't quite understand this question about tagle. But because of him. A senator noted that in this case there was no connection with the town line for discussion, I have pointed it out, and more members of the council here, that it is mentioned in the committee's list of parts, on page 12. 16 and 17, so the very side of the journey is under discussion. We are not confusing a point on the program right now with a subject on the program later, but we may discuss it better when it is due. I'm just on transportation, and I've always been, and I've been talking about it ever since I've been to the council so I don't see that we're playing, but we're just discussing these matters more than smaller.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u110	President. Hv. A senator asks how he and his associates are playing chess. It is kindly and obligatory to inform them. A senator if he doesn't know about it himself. Another year, we will be in charge of the 2,26424 speeches. Transport is a problem. No matter how painful the members of the Central Party, who have so far tried to manifest themselves as great workers, they feel that this is a delay in bringing these projects into work. And why, ask why. A senator, perhaps? Yes, we have a plan. The officers of all classes, including the mighty. paritaprevir By Thursday, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, chairman of the Central Party, has agreed to complete the council's work. All other officers respect that agreement, but why. paritaprevir Although writing on such things, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson has previously shown that this is of no importance to him. Has a what? A senator didn't notice that there is no one else in the discussion but the Central Party unless I've made occasional comments? Has a what? A senator believes that all classes are involved, or has he not seen that it is the central category that is involved and is by delaying the matter, delaying the discussion, the next case, which is also transport, and then the following, a travel issue, and then continuing down the list with all the cases that have been prepared to complete this council, and an agreement was about when it came to the job plan? That's what I'm talking about. A senator is a serious problem, and I like to be able to spend the last few hours on this good day explaining it to others. A senator, for apparently he did not realize that. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u111	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this second answer. I have, of course, noticed that we in the Central Party have been much alone in the hall. The Senator's been talking about tagle. Other members of the council were in trouble, not sharing in the discussion to help with the situation. I must make that explanation for the senator because he was explaining to me how to see things with his eyes. I won't be any more involved in that game than this. The Senator came in to see what happened. paritaprevir Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, would have signed something that he was not happy to do. I don't remember how he put it, as if it were his hope and reference, or something like that. I think it's inconceivable by someone who's not even in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u112	Yes, he's here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u113	He's here right now, but he wasn't here. But I'm just gonna have to say here that it's not a good idea to do it the other way. But I'm going back to my father's house with accusations of quarreling. Perhaps it would have been much better for members of other classes, we've called it up here in speeches, come here and discuss these matters so that we could improve the process of transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u114	President's plan is to complete a meeting, but what? 3.m. That's the north side. "Surmundur Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, "I believe he has to plead, and I rely on his opinion that there is real occasion and gives him the word.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u115	President. The president should be able to recognize the occasion, for here again came up an exorcist of the government, claiming that I would not accept an agreement made by the leaders of the clans and signed. It's just not true. I will, of course, fulfill this agreement like any other set of meetings I make. Claims 'em all. A senator's idea that we're preventing transportation is just smiling. As I said before, it doesn't show. Congress officials believe that the intelligence of potential voters is greatly appreciated if they try to insist that when we receive one additional meeting day to honor us, transportation is being delayed. However, the government is stuck with the fact that, as often happens at the end of the council, it has had an unusual period of time but will not succeed. That's what's about to happen, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-20-121.u116	Right now, but the president wants to say at the end of discussion and meeting that day, that he is disappointed that we will be stuck in exactly the same place as when we separated from the two parts of the program, 5 years of transportation and a 15 - year - old transportation program, on the fourth hour of Friday. Then the president directed them to what? The members of the Central Party are now considering the circumstances toward the end of this council, trying to limit their speech so that we would plan something further with the program. In effect, the members of the Central Party responded to this call for president by speaking for just less than eight hours today and delivering something between 70 and 80 talks. In fact, the members of the Central Party have in this subsequent discussion of the total transport program spoken just within 1,000 minutes, between 16 and 17 hours, and hosting 160 talks. Wait a minute. The members of the Central Party are sleeping on this information for the weekend and sleeping well.
