ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u1	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a greater portion of the budget of a bill for 2021, Section 3. The committee has discussed the matter again after the second issue. ... tohavea meeting with a representative of the Department of Economics and Economics. The changes made here on Parliamentary documents are both on the pay and income side of the bill, plus 5.g. on borrowing, 6th degree. about general sources. I'm going to review these changes as outlined in a committee study, but not all the captions provided in the Committee opinion are expected to increase by 1,780.4 million. K. and it is estimated that the budget will increase by 3,559 billion. K. On the income side is the most likely score of nearly 1.8 billion. On the basis of the contribution of the House Fund to the Housing and Mobilization Agency. The change is made on both the income and the remuneration sides of the state's funds, and therefore it has no effect on the survival of the Kingdom Fund. This is the contribution made to the Management Board of Houses for the Management of the House and Managing Agency. The same suggestion was made in terms of money. The second most dramatic change on the income side turns to the income tax of individuals where 600 million are expected. K. increase in the year. Explains it for two reasons. On the one hand, the evaluation of special property savings has been shown to be slightly higher than expected, however, there is a greater change in income taxation in individuals less than expected. It can be concluded that the government's labour markets are there. For example, reassessment of remuneration during post notice and extension of part-time improvements has led to higher revenues and thus higher income taxation. Other changes in income plan include over 200 million. K. reduction in fishing costs, largely because of the lower pressures on fish farms than originally expected. The cost of fish farming may be both manufacturing and market-related. It depends on the number of tons and is thus manufactured, but it is also marketed. World market prices have dropped since autumn, explaining mostly this decline. That's 175 million. K. reduction of carbon, resulting from a special funding of a new regional transport equation, and about 120 billion. K. reduction in return and processing costs in view of reassessment. That's 200 million dollars. K. Then I'm going to go over some of the basic remuneration changes. Total proposals are made for an increase of 7.6 billion dollars and litigations. due to changes in format, determination of new and improved expenses and pay reassessments. A total of over 1.7 billion return estimates. to increase. Except for these, the increase accounts for 5.9 billion. New and growing expenses for new decisions are less than 2.5 billion. and explained for several reasons. First of all, there's 590 million. K. increase in the subject area of 34, public reserves and specific budgets to cover the purchase of two holdings, as stated in Article 6 of the documentary. Money, but it's Köld and Hotel Giggis because of Lake Bay Park. Second, 470 million. K. proposals to support athletes because of fixed business fees during the period when meeting restrictions prevent their normal activities. The goal of support is to ensure continued professional sports and sports activities. The proposal was made on the 2nd. the bill, called back and is now restored here, where it will follow the bill that we agreed on earlier today. Third, a suggestion for 400 million is made. K. input to the subject area 8, rural development and community support to the government's policy-integrating policies on the growth of the government level and its increased self-sponsorment through the integration of rural society. Fourth, a proposal is made about 350 million. K. contributions from two types of housing. One is 100 million. K. the increase in the permafrost market. Newest President, to decide to use 1,100 million to raise the lowest improvement next year and to prevent this rise from damaging housing. That'll change the height. Department of Social Affairs regulations and increasing the limit of decline. The amount is needed to meet that rise. There are, however, 250 million here. K. Because it is estimated that more people now have rent money than the institutions of a budget anticipated. Fifth, a proposal is made about 437 million. K. increase in several topic areas due to correction of transport costs at around 2. The bill for budgeting before 2021 Sixth, a suggestion is made about 120 million. K. legal authority to finance the cost of hairy search by the Institute of Meritions. In the fall months, there was a review and a petition to the financing bill. It has been in agreement with a company in the fishing road and an investigator on the Agency's behalf to follow this hairy search. Since then, two efforts have been made, and they have promised that a planned trip is now being made in January, which is thought to be necessary to resolve whether one is not found hairy. That's why this proposal is here. Seven, a suggestion is made about 80 million. K. ..................................................... Changes other than those associated with new decisions except 3.4 billion. to increase. The largest remuneration rate in terms of research and development costs is estimated to increase 2.9 billion. from your previous schedule. This is a reevaluation of plans, but the increase can almost entirely be attributed to the change in the current year in which both roofing and reimbursement rates due to reimbursement of study and development costs were increased. To put it this way, a respectable president, it is quite well received in this regard. This assumes 1.8 billion dollars. the increase of funds due to the change in production of Homing and Civilization Institutes. That is, in fact, a tax exchange against the income transfer I went over earlier. As discussed above, a corresponding income is expected against the legal authority. The same goes for about 200 million. K. increase in topic area 4, foreign affairs, due to the costs of a central operating programme expected to be handled at the main office. In addition, more than 70 million are expected. K. increase due to a reassessment of the management programme and contributions taking into account the updates of the income management programme. In addition to the above expenditures, the budgets for causes of burning and litigation are suggested to be increased by 1.7 billion. due to reassessment of the remuneration of remuneration of the remuneration budget for 2020 and 2020, respectively, due to reevaluation of the pay pre-employers of the budget for 2021. In particular, these are changes due to contracts with doctors, nurses'court cases, previously expected general reserves, and due to reassessment of the pay raise of representatives and judges. Finally, several other technical adjustments are proposed, such as transfers between mercenaries and corrections of economic exchanges and transfers made at 2nd. The matter of the subject area 24; health services outside the hospital. In addition, there are three proposed changes to 6. The bill. Two of these can also be found in the adjustments made at 2nd. budgets for 2020 It is an extension for artists and a source for partial growth in Keili. The third objective is to set up a special real estate society owned by the State, whose role is to possess and govern the property that Iceland's University uses in its activities as well as to place the real estate is the university that owns the state's funds. The development of a changed arrangement for the future has been done on the management of university real estate in line with the Ministry and the University of Iceland. A respectable president. I've been over this committee opinion of more things and what. The budget and the main changes shown on the income and the remuneration. In other respects, I refer to further explanations presented in the committee program of the greater part and the adjustments made to a special Senate document. Under the order of the centuries. Councilmen: Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Páll Magnússon, and Þóra Árnadóttir Auradótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u2	President. I just wanted it to be clear here about the agreement that was made at the Land Hospital at a local university hospital. In that agreement, however, finding the legal right to destroy them is not expected. It's only allowing them to stay for the next three years, if I understand correctly, in the years 2021, 2022, and 2023. I just wanted to know if I had the right understanding or if there's something else in this that's supposed to be subjugated or something like that. I just wanted to get it straight about what it's like after this deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u3	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing this into his discussion. I think it's important. We read about this declaration of will between the highest. Economic and financial ministers, health ministers and hospital directors. It has been stressed, and I'm not speaking of in the situations we've been in, under the most trying circumstances of delicate activity, not letting the accumulated pitch of laws spread between years, interfere with our activities, or suffer from services. In this declaration of will, I read it, like, why. A senator, to be willing that these accumulated bodies do not interfere with the operation. I then assume that if you cross outside, you have to make a donation, and that's when you need the top. Ministers of health, as well as others according to the events of the committee's choice, to install a financial committee, and to discuss how to treat this angle. But I rejoice that I have read this declaration of will and that there are finally members - as the law indicates - because the minister is absolutely responsible for his own business - to discuss with his institutions and find how things are handled. Of course, when it comes to legal matters, the World Council must have the ultimatum on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u4	President. I thank you for the answer, but there is still a tiny question as to whether any payment at this angle is required if it does not interfere with service or if there is no requirement for subsidies on the side. That's really just a push on that problem ahead of us until 2024 - or what? Maybe the highest. A financial minister or health minister who is expected here in a house due to a vote can simply come in and explain this to us. I wish for a president that he would give them a message to the Minister in order to explain this to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u5	V.E.G. President. I can explain this to you too. Senator. This is accounting size, and the law says: "It's moving to the next year, and then it's going to work. ' Now it's just accounting size and people agree that this accounting size is not supposed to cause any harm in the operation. That means the size is in there in a bill, but there is no authority to delete it or to make a donation to it. That decision will always be made by a financial committee, and I'm not going to direct it. That's the highest possible. A president or a member of the staff who had it. A senator calls for something more. But what has to be done and must eventually happen is that those who write under this declaration will appear to a financial committee and review what these parties have to think and what requirements should be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u6	A respectable president. I'm here with a adjustment into the 3rd. which I wanted to explain. There is a 149 million adjustment within the subject range of high school. Funds say that 0.5% of the college's products are less than 38 billion, but 0.5% of them are not the 337 million that are placed under the so - called support of budgetary production. We asked about this on a budget board. It said that the hold was only about 240 million, which does not have 0.5% of the resources available in the topic field. It's closer to 0.7%, just like that, so my motion here is about to be only 0.5%, not 0.9% the way it is right now. It has to be regarded as a small deal that this defect is in the law, and I look forward to seeing the members of the greater part vote with this change, as the budget of the stipulation is said to be 0.5%, and I guess it needs to be elected not to have it 0.5%, or to have it 0.9%. According to the Ministry, of these 337 billion were reported. K. 100 million. K. a reduction in budget growth, or something like it, would have increased so much that the $100 million, part of the budget, were that of reducing the expenses in the field that I don't understand in any other way unless that is just the means of maintenance. At one time, 100 million were used for some project, but now it is simply supposed to erase them, and this is called a reduction, not an expansion. There's some kind of new word, ◯new speak-dot, with the permission of a president, running. This proposal is very simple: keeping the budget as presented in budgets; 0.5%, not 0.9%; and I look forward to seeing votes on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u7	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator again. Hv. A senator is very clear. He's exactly calculated. I think that's what we're talking about. In his case, a senator entered into it that is not calculated as a stipulation on the whole topic field. The colleges are certainly calculated by 0.5%. Then there are other teams at the topic field bearing 2%. The Ministry of Economics calculates this. So by accepting a suggestion. A senator would not really be handling the matter. What we want, however, is transparency, and I'm going to thank you. A senator's objective was to shed light on the problem. A financial committee has called for a fragmentation of the joints on which the calculation is based. It may also be added that each of the department's services can bring about a switch between causes of suffering. This must be considered before we begin to drop or accept some adjustment proposals in this respect, but to accept the adjustment proposed. A senator wouldn't solve anything. There's a little discernment behind it. A senator, to shed light on this lack of transparency. I've already called for interference on how this is calculated in the Ministry. Then we need to ask the Ministry of State whether any help was even transferred, as if it were authorized. So we won't solve anything by agreeing to this proposal. On the other hand, when we discuss a financial bill, it is positive to draw out this transparency that we are sometimes dealing with. And that's good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u8	Mr. President. There's a pretty big difference between 0.5 and 0.9%, there's almost a double difference. Most of the material in high school is their business, just as they look. I'm looking for the financial bill itself in this wording, which refers to the subject range of high school. It's hard to do this on the phone in a short time in an anti-sponsor. At any rate, though, the rest of the language field is spoken of. True, it may be that there is some small part of this material outside of high school. But that it explains the great one, I think, rather unlikely. If you don't go to high school and only to the part of the topic field that has 2%, it's still unlikely to get this amount. As I said, I asked for this information on a budget board, and the answers we received did not clearly explain the breakdown that took place. The chairman of the budget board talks about it. I have no objection to the fact that this is the correct amount and the exact amount, so if the disintegration comes, then it can be counted correctly. But it is relatively certain that the amount it is today is not true.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u9	V.E.G. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator met the nail at the end, that we would not solve the case by agreeing to his proposal. [[Up front.]] But that does not change the fact that this dissociation has already been called. Then we have to look for information from the Ministry of State on what they've chosen to do because we don't see it on the bill or on the rest of the changes the committee has made. We will review this case as a result. But I am stressing that even though this is a good tip from the road. Then a senator will not solve the matter by agreeing to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u10	A respectable president. As I said before, the biggest part of this subject is schools. It's like the law says: ▪ The maintenance goal of health and aging institutions and schools, however, is much lower, or 0.5%. It's only about the schools as they lay down. In the nearly 38 billion budgets of this case, there is absolutely no harm in reducing the requirement from 0.9% to 0.5 percent, which is in this 159 million, even though it is not very precise, it may amount to 26.5 million or less. If there's just too much extra, it's no problem to say: We didn't use all the funds in this because the restraint was actually just less than that. And then the money is just returned, as the government law assumes. So no harm, even if it's approved, is done. There's a very small number of commutations in the large context of this topic field. On the other hand, this amount would be remembered, to start with the requirement, which could, for example, be the case. There were a number of new projects that have been discussed here, and it was very close to agreeing in the district talk with the 2nd issue. concerning bioavailability to menstrual and such. So this funding could be the new Minister to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u11	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion at all. I'm just going to present the UN's short, short, adjustment proposal at 3rd. It is most recent to say that we made 13 modifications at 2nd. Money and all of it was incorporated. Now we make a final effort to make a few adjustments, and these suggestions are not vast, but they are important. The first proposal is that of an older citizen. We have faced challenges from this group to receive the same compensation as other groups according to the biography agreements. Older citizens are calling for an improvement of 15,750. per month. That's a perfectly normal requirement for the Conspiracy to take heart. We made a similar suggestion here at 2. Um... she was let down. Now that we try again, we give the government a chance to listen to 45,000 older citizens in this country. Another suggestion is an increase in birth strength. The level of birth is a shamefully low amount given to individuals when they are studying or otherwise outside the workforce. That's 80,000,900,000 bucks. We're suggesting that this increase, on the one hand, for people with less than 25% employment ratio which is only 83,000 bucks, it goes to 100,000, it's not really anything, and on the other, we propose a full-time parent who is now receiving the birth strength of 190,000 bucks. can get 205,000 bucks. It's not much, Mr. President, it's so small that you're kind of ashamed to suggest it. This, however, is an attempt to get the government to raise birth strength in some way. This proposal costs 75 million. This is important to this group, and we could do much more here. Third suggestion of the Conspiracy at the 3rd. The budget is interesting, it's about raising funding for aid organizations about 200 million. K. We've taken a step like this before, especially before Christmas. We see that because of the Korean virus epidemic, there has been a dramatic increase in food distribution and that we are being called on by a financial committee and for the council to increase the volume of a body to meet the food distribution. Imagine, they're talking about people who need food before Christmas. It doesn't really happen sad, sad, even dramatic, it's an organization that's based on voluntary work, whether it's a Mother Control Committee, the Church, the Salvation Army, the family help, etc., there's a lot of waiting in our rich society after dinner. Of course, no one should have to rely on food distribution, but now it is necessary to be even more supportive to the relief organization, especially in view of the situation today in the community, 20,000 people out of work, and many populations in this community are confined. These are three clear, not expensive, suggestions that we give the Senate a chance to accept. I'd like to recall that the Conspiracy only had one form of financial adjustment that was discussed yesterday. She was huge, much bigger than that. She objected to raising environmental funds by 30%. All members of the council made that suggestion outside the United States, it was a little interesting. It was a suggestion that we in the United States made up a financial program taken care of yesterday. But now we're talking about budgeting, and I'm calling for Congress support to these three suggestions. Mr. President. I'm going to end up in a more positive way because this is probably one of the last talks to be held this year in this hall, and it's a good way to end a positive note in the miserable 2020 year. I just want to go over what the Conspiracy wants to emphasize. It's relatively fast. You see, the union has produced a very ambitious and large document that we call responsible the way. This is a plan of action to deal with the current situation. We want to create 7,000 jobs, not just 1,000 jobs like the government. We'd like to increase the number of jobs I've done over and over, both in the public and private sector. We have proposed a $2 billion cut-off on the tax, so every company in the country gets 2 million. K. A discount on insurance. It's a pretty smart idea, it's like a personal discount for an enterprise. All companies would get $2 billion. K. A discount on insurance. Of course, it would benefit relatively more fully as the companies are smaller. This is a professional tax reduction instead of the government's specialized tax doctors, who are now putting in charge of reducing capital taxes to the richest. The union highlights SMEs. Much more often, the trade owner, or the small service owner, needs to be considered. They are the grieving material in Icelandic employment and are completely forgotten. We talk too much about the interests of the big companies, which, of course, are fine in view of their size, but these are the little companies and family companies that are forgotten. A suggestion, as the Conspiracy proposes here, to reduce the insurance fee by two million for everyone, would be a very clever procedure. Sadly, though, it has been disintegrated. We would also like to strengthen a business that hires people of unemployment, instead of subsiding information as this government does. It's very peculiar, I've never seen anywhere else doing anything that's going down. That's what this government has decided to do. Likewise in this programme of action, this financial plan of the United States, we give high priority to reducing the worksheets of children and micro-piercing. I don't have to say, and it's no surprise, but the Group wants to raise unemployment rates and benefits to the elderly and desperate. We cannot accept the fact that these large groups of people are to live on the scale of 2 60,000 bucks, the elderly, and the unemployed. per month. No one and no one in this room can count on them to do so. We want to strengthen the local communities that care for the close - up services that we so care about. We want to introduce green policy with ambitious climate action. We want to start a green investment fund, a massive veggie production, and a forest culture. We'd like to raise the reimbursement rate for film making. We want to increase the number of artists and strengthen the stage audience. You can see that the wands are wide. Iceland's employment policy needs to be varied, it needs to be original, it needs to be fun, and we need to be interested. We want the innovation and high - tech industry, the pharmaceutical industry, the remote health services, the computer industry, or whatever its name is. Now we need to create jobs. Professional creation is our main project in this room, and it is so important that we support the sceptres, support funds like technology fund, which is just the area for small companies to look to. All of this is just part of our proposals that we in the United States have presented in a special document. This gives us the necessary resistance that everyone is waiting for. They produce taxes and the jobs we sorely need. This creates opportunities and hopes for people who are losing their job and who have lost their jobs. We know that unemployment is a terrible situation for anyone who does. We also know that unemployment is a trust fund. Imagine, one percentage of the rising unemployment rate is 6.5 billion. If we are able to cope with the unemployment problem, we save less on unemployment outside of the fact that we are meeting people who, of course, want to be active in society, want to make money to live up to their standards and commitments. Finally, I've said this a few times, the United States calls for a handsome investment in people and companies. We want to increase the angle a little more than we already have, and we want to take longer to pay it down. I have said this before and will say again that there are times when money has to be spent to make money, and the circumstances are right now. This is what the Company calls responsible because it is irresponsible to do too little in such a state as the government seems to be doing. It would be responsible to take big green steps now as the Conspiracy suggests, where work, well-being, and green structure throughout the country is our red thread and should be the red thread of everyone. This is a way out of a professional crisis to the green future, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u12	Mr. President. We're here on the final meters. We're paying off the budget. We have been deeply involved in the work of the budget board. We've contributed a lot of good things, we think. There's a lot of good in this budget and a lot of things we wanted to have different, but it's been a lot of business here at the early stages of this case, and I'm not going to say any more. I have to say, I'm not in a lot of trouble, if you don't mind me saying it, to have a lot of political discussions about it. I'll take care of what we've said until now. But I'd like to take this opportunity, because earlier tonight I became a subject of the situation at Seytur, and the tragic news that we have received from it with great damage. Happily, all of us have to thank for the loss of a loved one and the injury of people. But, of course, all of us are shocked, and I discussed it here as to if there was a reason for it. A legal committee to meet specifically to discuss these matters at this point. Since then, I have had discussions with my colleagues there, and we have only considered these matters lightly. I have been assured that here we all stand together at the council that we need to take action. Fortunately, there are funds in reserves that can be taken from us, and we have a disaster fund that can also be taken care of. But I think it's safe to say that there's a monopoly on the budget board, and I'm assuming that it's also at the council and the government, that the measures that will be taken quickly and promptly will be taken. And once the situation is evaluated and considered, in the General Assembly and the Government will not be able to come to help and provide the money needed to come - I dare not tell things in the same way, but do it so that as soon as it becomes possible to go to the cleaners and structures and see what steps others must take to protect the town from such other tragedys. I thought it would be appropriate to make this statement, since I raised the issue, and I want to reiterate that there is a lot of spirit here. In this regard, the politics are of no importance. Rather, we are all united in coming to help. This is what I wanted to make clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u13	Mr. President. I'd like to come up against what I'm saying. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson's speech. I will agree with his words, as well as with my feelings for the events there. It also gives fine reasons to review public financial problems that are actually designed to cope with such tragedies. A senator makes up a subject, which is a reserve fund of state funds, which just grips on such a shock and responds to financial expenditures that are affected by such unexpected disasters. There's no question about this. Senator. I just took the chance to mention this. For this reason, the law on public financial matters has been kept in mind, and as soon as I come to terms with it. A senator is a reason to draw attention to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u14	Mr. President. I hereby recommend an aluminium study with a change in proposal from a greater part of the employment committee at the 3rd Environment. In a committee program, there is quite a text of the work of the Committee between discussions that I'm only briefly aware of. First, we discussed the news, or the decision, made between talk and debate. The job committee had mentioned the first committee to the 2nd. which was a review of the European Union's customs contract. We were contacted by the Committee at the highest level. Ministers and legislators to discuss the evaluation of the customs agreements and the data that are fundamental to the request for the current revision. Second, the above article will discuss only the regulations of Article 112. The EEA Convention, which was widely discussed in the 2nd Environment. We clearly understand this, as the committee's opinion says, by permission of a president: ▪ Under discussion, there have been significant discussions about the terms of 1st. Section 112. The EEA Convention has to do with the implementation of the toll agreement of Iceland and the European Union. It says that if serious economic, social, or environmental difficulties arise in special industry or in designated areas that are likely to persist, the parties can take one - sided to appropriate measures at the conditions and in the manner recommended at 113. g. The EEA Convention. For this reason, the Committee specifically discussed the meaning of the article in the context of the current issue, ◯ i.e. the subject under consideration. ▪ For the Commission, it was necessary to read the 112th chapter of the Mosaic Law. in relation to the EEA Convention metre, as defined in 3mgr. Section 8. The deal. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. that if not specifically stated, the terms of the contract will only be used for manufacturing products that fall below 25,◯97. a section in the standard prescribing and product index. Farming and marine products fall below 1,◯24. the section of the registry and this means that agricultural products mentioned here do not fall within the EEA Convention. Exceptionally, though, the range of values has been extended in several specific areas, including ... forthemeansandspecture. This understanding has been on the basis of the European government's stand since the opening days of the EEA Convention. Clearly, then, the 112s. does not include the customs agreement. The committee was also advised that the application of 112th pars. The deal isn't just about Iceland's interests. Iceland's decision to use its 112th year. would mean that it would also take to other EFTA countries within the EU, i.e. Norway and Liechtenstein. So Iceland cannot make a one-way decision. In view of the greater part, the bait is 112. gr. The EEA Convention is not an option for the trade agreement between Iceland and the European Union. However, the toll agreement contains a law on revision and consultation, cr. 13th par. The deal. The majority therefore reiterate their former position that in the revision announced by the secretary of state and development, all the resources available by the Icelandic government will be used to ensure that domestic production can compete solely with exported products. In the opinion we made in the previous article, we also discussed the importance of increasing the number of exports and that agrienvironmental ministers would then have only more efficient controls and therefore used resources. Two o'clock. the impact of the bill on agricultural prices was well discussed. We are putting this discussion into our committee party now. ▪ During discussions with the subject, we have discussed the potential effects of reinstateing the earlier distribution arrangements for tollovate. Agrienvironment schemes have been identified as leading to an increase in agrienvironment schemes risk to consumers. In view of the greater part, it does not necessarily result in a higher price for consumers to adopt an older arrangement. It has been observed that meat is overproducted on foreign markets. The global market price for meat has decreased 14% since January 2020 according to figures from the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization. This trend is likely to continue. In this country, living cattle and other products have become an extensive collection. Thus, in view of the greater part, the approved bill does not necessarily have an impact on consumer price. We will then discuss a little more closely the competitive environment of the agricultural environment. That was just fine in the case of the Supreme Court. Agricultural minister at the Committee meeting what tasks and tasks are at the table of the products and therefore possibly at the level of the government thereafter. It is a permanent way to achieve substantial economy by team or partnership with an enterprise that will then be subject to the legal requirements of competitiveness. However, we draw attention to the change in competitive law and, as a result, the possibility of an enterprise identifying opportunities in these areas. I think it is important that we draw forward that to improve agricultural status, such as other occupations, it is important to use instruments to improve longer-term working conditions. We will discuss the review of food security and the Food Security Action Programme adopted here during the spring of 2019. It was also shown in the case of agrienvironmental ministers, which has been properly used in the implementation of this case, as is often the case related to agriculture, how little available profits and statistics are available to use accurate instruments and instruments. In that case, agrienvironment schemes introduced a device that is becoming ready for use and have been introduced as the agrienvironmental instrument. We're going to make a change in our opinion of the bill. We retracted to 2nd. It is certainly difficult to predict how long this epidemic's effects will last. There are conflicting reports on this subject from day to day. Of course, we hope that we will be seeing the end of his influence, but it will take a long time to work out the position we are in. The suggestion for the greater part therefore suggests that a review of the customs contract is initiated and more measures have been introduced, changing the law's validation and, instead of making this tollovate declaration a value to February 1, 2022 values to 1st August 2022. Under this heading, write why. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, president of the Professional Association, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdóttir, and Nyli Friðbertsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u15	V.E.G. President. I would like to present a panel of committees from a small part of the employment committee on bill to correct the change of agricultural products, No. 99/1993, this is actually a follow-up check at 3rd. The less part of the employment board disagrees with the opinion of more part of the employment committee for reasons further explained in this opinion of the less part of the Commission. It should be noted at the beginning that the smaller part will address the assessment of the minister of state and sectoral development, published on December 17, 2020, that the basis for the European Commission and the European Union's agricultural agreements has made a significant difference. In line with the less part of the committee, this conclusion of the Ministers has been referred to in the prior political treatment of the case. At the same time, the less part rejoices because foreign and development co-worker has requested agrienvironmental agreement with the European Union to be reviewed. There is news to be rejoiced because it would be better for this to be discussed sooner than later. The smaller portion of the case has referred to Article 112. The EEA Convention, which is therefore specifically discussed on the terms of the contract in terms of the greater part of the Committee. However, the review of more than one part of the employment committee appears to be misunderstandings. At the beginning, the majority of the share of agrienvironment schemes should not fall under the EEA Convention, since agricultural products fall largely out of 25,◯97. the standard product information and product numbers of the registry. A reference to the 112th grade. The EEA Convention is created because of the simple reason that the European Union's agricultural contract is not a standard agreement between two parties. In other words, the Convention is not a agreement with terms of purpose, regulations, review regulations, regulations, and requisitions. The agricultural contract is, in effect, a meeting of government officials, which refers to certain toll numbers that are offered by the council and the market with certain products. In view of the fact that there are no traditional regulations in the agricultural agreements, such as the revision regulations, Iceland has the only option to refer to the 112th chapter. The EEA Convention to meet the importance of reviewing the European Union and the agricultural agreement. Pointing to Article 112. The EEA Convention does not, in my opinion, include the application of the directive but is only referred to in Article 112. The EEA Convention to meet the need to re-examine the European Union and the agricultural agreement. So the smaller section feels that the greater part of the 112th section is about 112. The EEA Convention is not valid. In addition, more than 13 percent is considered wrong. The agricultural agreement refers to a review of the agricultural agreements. In this regard, the minority points out that this is not a national law, but it is a 13th paragraph. Summaries of the meeting of the European Commission and the European Union, which should specifically be used as an explanation. That law comes in English, and I'm not gonna read it because I'm not good in English, but it's in the papers. But after this English text, the above reference points out: Of this, it is clear that this is not a revised law, but a law to exchange information on the trade, tollovita, prices, and other information. The minority cannot see how it is possible to build a review of this arrangement and to seriously question the opinion of the majority of the committee on this point. Closer would be the review of the agricultural agreement to refer to Article 112. The EEA Convention and adopt the case of the joint EEA Commission or request negotiations between Iceland's emissary and the European Union. That's when the smaller part doesn't get to see the 112th floor. This will lead to some special consequences for other EFTA countries, which is a two-sided agricultural contract between Iceland and the European Union and does not exist as such other EFTA countries. Similarly, the agricultural agreement of Norway and the European Union does not affect Iceland and Liechtenstein, and the changes in this agreement do not affect the two countries mentioned above. A smaller section of the Committee does not agree with the need to increase the number of invitations over the year so that smaller amounts are offered at a time. It would be best to postpone the agricultural contract indefinitely because of the unprecedented circumstances attributable to the pandemic of the crown virus rather than to restore an earlier arrangement. The smaller portion disagrees with the main interest assessment of the majority of the Committee that it is necessary to ensure evener flows of imported products to take into account the need to include to the importer's binding. This assessment is entirely clear on the opinion of other countries, including the European Union, which has taken extensive measures to improve the quality of the agricultural products and not the import tools. The latter members, import companies, are only intermediate but not manufacturers of the quality like manufacturers of agrienvironment schemes. The minority cannot agree with the indications presented in the review of the Contestance Board, but more of the Committee makes the Agency's comments. Contestant Control, No. 44/2005, according to their role in handling the act of the law. The lesser part is seriously questioning the role of the European Commission, the official government, to participate in a political discussion, as the Agency seems to have done to some extent in the relevant matters for the treatment of the committee. It will not be avoided, however, that the European Union's Strategy contributes, under its guidance, to an increase in the import of national agrienvironmental products from EU Member States, but the role of the European Union in the common market economy of agricultural products is largely designed to increase competition in the Icelandic market with agricultural products. On the contrary, it leads to a substantial decrease in income for European agricultural producers. So the minority still feels that the adjustment he made was applied to 2rd. The matter would have been improved if she had been accepted at an earlier stage. Under this view, the person standing here, Sigurður Páll Jónsson, and why. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson. This article shows that if the invitations were to be postponed, we would be responding to the present situation because of Covid and disease prevention, collapse in the arrival of tourists, and the consequences of a massive supply collection of farmers on the leg, and as in the cryo-circuits of decommissions. We have been concerned that we are breaking our contract with the European Union by delaying invitations. Then I just refer to what was presented in this committee party. And if the European Union didn't feel that it was an offense, or if it had been done, it would simply be called to a meeting in the joint EEA committee and considered a case that might hasten the revision of this agreement. I just want to say at the end that, as mentioned at the outset of the Commission opinion, we are glad that we will not discuss the customs agreements, and hopefully they will, sooner or later, and I will wish counsellers and others who will be successful in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u16	Mr. President. We're here for a discussion of a bill to correct the change in agricultural products, tollovite distribution. Thank you. A senator for the minority opinion. I'm going to quote what is said in the minority opinion, by permission of a president: The majority of the share of agrienvironment schemes should be reviewed at the beginning. My part of this case is right. It also states that the agricultural agreement is not a standard agreement between two parties. It says that this is a meeting of officials. This is wrong. The agreement is neither unorthodox nor unconventional. According to what we have studied in this matter, it is a letter exchange, by permission of the President, that of letters, which is a change of ways. It is traditional form of national rights agreements and binding under international law. So we're just talking about a conventional international agreement. Iceland has made numerous international contracts throughout history, in the form of such correspondence. It's shown in the minority opinion, by permission of Presidents: So the others feel that the greater part of the 112th chapter is about 112. The EEA Convention is not valid. However, in the opinion of the Committee, the less part is in itself prepared to agree that agricultural products do not depend on the EEA Convention. From this conclusion, we will conclude that the 112th chapter of this magazine is already under way. The EEA Convention does not apply to the agricultural agreement any more than its other regulations. And that it is not a revised law, it is merely a law to exchange information on trades, tollovita prices, and so forth. This is a misunderstanding. [[The president calls.]] I might react to this from what happened. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u17	V.E.G. President. I don't quite understand this misunderstanding at the moment. paritaprevir My dear Njáll of Friðbertsson, who, though, I thank you for the answer. It turned out that in the contract called a government contract, or I can't remember how the senator expressed it, there are no reexaminations or anything in the direction of reading here. If the Senator's talking about this misunderstanding, it's because we think it's perfectly appropriate to refer to 112. g. The EEA Convention. Like I said, I don't know where the misunderstanding is, but I'm trying to figure it out. I'm just gonna read it out a little bit, with president's permission: ▪ The majority of cases have referred to Article 112. The EEA Convention, which is therefore specifically discussed on the terms of the contract in terms of the greater part of the committee. - Then it says, by permission of the President: It is not an international agreement, it is a 13th paragraph. Summaries of the meeting of Iceland and the European Union emissary, which should be specifically published in explanation. Then came that English text I was talking about. Maybe a what? A senator better explained to me what he meant by this misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u18	Mr. President. We don't have much time left to say, but on the ground, we have a contract on the 19th floor. The EEA Convention, which says, by permission of the President: The partners should consider all the challenges they may face in their agricultural trade and seek to find an appropriate solution for them. However, the EEA Convention does not tell you how to do this, but this certainly is not done by conferences, such as driving. A senator entered his talk earlier. Meetings of European Union meetings are marked, on permission of presidents, as Šminates- to the European Union. So it's just a traditional form that was made up of this contract that we are now going to try to twist off and see what you can do with it. There are types of charcoal that need to be followed. While a contract does not have a specific purpose, rules of content, deliberations, citations, and regulations, it is still a contract. You can wonder. A senator is arguing that those who signed on behalf of Iceland and the European Union were not authorized. You can wonder. A senator is arguing, so that I repeat this, that those who signed on behalf of Iceland and the European Union were not authorized. I don't think so. The contract is based on the traditional foundation that has been worked on in international contracts from Iceland for years. Given the information that the person here has received on this subject when we went through it, I can't see anything unconventional about how the matter is handled in the big context. Then we will work with it more. We naturally have a report on the customs contract, its history, and its origin. Let's hope we have more information on these matters in that report.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u19	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir To answer from Njáll, the Trausti of Friðbertsson. No, I don't think they were -- what did the senator say? [[Take it up to the top: non-sacrifice.]] Impelled. No, I don't think so. But what was stated in my case and is in the opinion of the committee, which the senator can only read and has read, is that it is not a law of reexamination, not of matter, of purpose, or of things that are usually in contracts between countries. That's why we feel that the EEA contract can be referred directly to. This contract that the senator just quoted is not a standard contract between countries, as is the case when we make a deal in the EEA. That is why we point to the way of referring to Article 112. is good. We may now be able to disagree on this. [[The point is: I agree to disagree.]] I agree to disagree. Sometimes it's just a good landing in politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u20	A respectable president. I'm just gonna have a brief introduction in this discussion to keep it from extending any more than the word is. I think it would be useful to go deep through how the release of this contract, however it might be, has been put into practice with the economists. Are these signed conferences of a meeting of government officials, or is this more formalized and in detail than such a document? I think it would be good to ask for the formality, after this discussion is over, that the State Department of State would take it together so that there would be no doubt about it. When the first reference was made to Article 112, par. The EEA Convention for 2nd. only read directly from the EEA contract, but these are the views presented in the Committee to cover the majority of the employment committees, which say, by permission of the President: So in view of the greater part, the bait is 112. gr. The EEA Convention is not an option for the toll agreements of Iceland and the European Union; I'm going to come back to a related point, but with this sentence alone from the majority of the employment committee's panels, I'd like to refer to what is presented in the Committee of my body, which is the course. Councilmen Sigurður Jónsson and Ólafur Ísleifsson from the Central Party sign, saying by permission of the president: So the others feel that the greater part of the 112th chapter is about 112. The EEA Convention is not valid. In addition, more than 13 percent is considered wrong. The agricultural agreement refers to a review of the agricultural agreements. In this regard, the minority points out that this is not a national law, but it is a 13th paragraph. Summing up a meeting of Iceland's emissary and the European Union... This is one of the things I think we at the council would do well to get a more precise report from the State Department. Then it would just be suggested if this is available in English and it has been published properly. At the 150th legislature, the highest response was made. The secretary of state asks why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, who said so, by permission of president: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. How many treaties with other countries and other civil rights, which Iceland has validated as national rights, wait to be a. Signed in Icelandic, b. Prints C C? It is requested that the agreements be made and when to validate the contract. 2. What's the average time since Iceland has a validated agreement with other states and other national rights to the national rights until it's published in the C C C C C C department? 3. Are agreements with other countries and other national rights to be published at the same time in the printed and electronic version of C State of the Management Board? I want to draw attention to the fact that in answer to the highest degree. The minister of this inquiry says, with permission of the president: ▪ All validated contracts have been translated into Icelandic. Then, a little later in response from the last legislature, U.S.A., says by permission of a president: To begin work on contract documents in the previous years for the rest of the year and publication of the Government News, the agreed work to be done by the government. Due to a pandemic situation, the programme of action has been delayed, but preparation has begun and, based on the fact that the cumulative agreements will be published over the next three years. Then, with the permission of the president, it goes on to say: Since there has been a collection of unpublished contracts in the past decade, it may take 10◯12 years after a contract is validated until the publication of its declaration is published in the Management News. With reference to this, I think it would be desirable, because now I'm at the highest level. The minister of state is now in the middle of the hall, that the evidence of this material would be compiled in a way that if one of us members of the Parliament's arrangement is misunderstandingd, it would be easy to correct him. Finally, I'd like to celebrate what's happened at the highest level. Secretary of State yesterday, if I correctly understood, that already a request had already been made to the European Union for discussions about changing the customs agreement. I would have liked to see it happen before it's better late than never, and I hope it's a good thing to get us out of the terrible dilemma we're in within this frame of agreement, and I'm not trying to point out one rather than another, especially on the subject of where the blame lies. What matters to the farmers of the country is that this contract will be revised, the import rights in different directions, or the possibility that this contract will run its course, and with the intention of making a decision to form a new one. With current conditions, at least I'm not living much longer, and I'd like to be glad that the European Union has finally made up a conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u21	Mr. President. That's exactly what happened in my case earlier. We're gonna go for a second. The members of the Independence Party have submitted a petition for this toll agreement. We want him to create, his interests, and the rest of the process around this deal to be put together in a report, so that we can get a better overview of this matter. It wasn't as easy as I'm gonna come to this place. It has been requested so that we take a general measure of the matter and want to collect all the information on the development of the contract and the interests and the other aspects of it. That is what was approved at the council in November. Just in the end, it's my personal feeling that this has been a bad deal. We really need to look into things in a new context and our legal standing on the case, and then I'm also just referring to the assessment and other information we're about to do and want to be a minister of foreign law last night regarding this agreement with the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer to Njáll, Trausti of Friðbertsson. It's just a pleasure to have the Christmas spirit that we'll embrace here, the members and members of Congress, with the greatest and most powerful view for the interests of farmers in Iceland. All I'm saying is that I'm glad that there's been a beginning of a reexamination of this deal, and I know it. Friðbertsson This will be watched by Y.O.W.S.S.R.S.S.S.S.A., with other representatives seated there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u23	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, but I have to say, it's quite surprising. There's been a lot of access to my ministry, and it's that, more honored President, that members of the council can call for information from councilmen, from us as well as other resources, and then we gladly provide it with information. In this case, there is good reason. Central Party senators. It is a slow home because the chairman and vice president of the Middle Party were prime minister and foreign minister at the time of this agreement. It is quite clear that the contract is on the custody of foreign ministers. There'll be nothing clearer. That's why I'm concerned with these matters. This is in accordance with the Presidential decision of the Foreign and Development Minister. Of course, it was then a foreign minister who expressed himself on the subject when it was introduced and said to it: ▪ This is a cause for rejoicing for Icelandic consumers and exporters. With the contracts, there will be increased application instruments for exporters, as well as for the tolldowns, tolls will increase goods and will be returned to consumer pockets through reduced food prices. He also said: ▪ This is a cause for joy for Icelandic consumers who will see instead in reduced food prices and exporters who will undoubtedly take advantage of opportunities in these contracts. This is followed by the assessment in everyone's eyes. She gave us our press release when I requested a review of the contract. These matters are carefully considered. That's what happened to you. Friðbertsson Of course, I will answer the queries presented in the report request. But I didn't want to spend much time with this minority party, which is signed by two excellent dates. The members of the Central Party. It correctly states: The majority of the share of agrienvironment schemes should be reviewed at the beginning. You're absolutely right. And also, with President's permission: The European Union Convention is not a standard agreement between two parties [...] The agriculture contract is, in fact, a meeting of officials. This is wrong. The agreement is neither unorthodox nor unconventional. It's called letter exchange, and I'm going to cut or switch to English language, with the permission of a president, a rechange of lettters, to the English language. This is both a traditional form of national rights agreements and binding under international law. Iceland has made dozens of international contracts throughout the years in the form of paper exchange or ◯exchange of lettters. So here's what it says, by permission of the President: So the others feel that the greater part of the 112th chapter is about 112. The EEA Convention is not valid. - The smaller part is there by itself prepared to say that agriculture does not depend on the EEA Convention. As a result of this conclusion, 112th chapter 1. The EEA Convention does not apply to the agricultural agreement any more than its other regulations. It says: ▪... not to discuss review regulations, but only regulations to exchange products, tollovata, prices, and other information. This is a misunderstanding. The reason for a misunderstanding is that the smaller portion refers to a physical wrong in the terms of the contract, referred to Article 13. but it's regulations 1 1 1. ... ina materialvision. In this respect, smaller things are right, i.e. of Article 11. The contract is by no means a reexamination. But that makes 13. The contract is about which party could request discussion if there is a problem with the implementation of a contract. Furthermore, the article will explain that discussions should be conducted as soon as possible and that the goal is to determine measures that would correct the problem. This is the difference that is presented in the contract in this case. It says in the interview, with the permission of a president: Then the smaller portion will not be seen at 112. gr. This leads to some special consequences for other EFTA countries, including the European Union and the United States, agrienvironmental agreement, and not to any other EFTA countries. 3 mg. Section 112. says: The measures for which to apply should apply to all agreements. How else can it be said that the agricultural contract is actually a meeting of officials and then maintain a few lines down to the same conclusion that a two - sided contract is involved? This doesn't quite work out, Mr. Honorable President. In such matters, it is perfectly normal and probably only natural. Councilmen only call for information if they are thinking things like these. But, of course, it's not that, more dignified President, this was not a contract. It's not that simple. If you count, and the evidence can be given that a mistake has been made, then let it be reported. They just have to be more human than that. I'm not going to start wondering who else or this was teaching me. We know exactly how the situation is now in terms of how we use the export boxes and how the import equipment is used. It's in the middle of nowhere, it's been taken out, and I used myself to. These data are available. We can talk about it and hopefully have the opportunity to discuss these matters, both here and elsewhere. On the other hand, I do not comment on the fact that men are critical, that is why members of the council are and that is not the case. Senators of the Board of Overseers. But it's often much better, just so general, to just call out for information, I don't talk about when people see things like this, or think they see them. It is very easy and easy to get information from the plot. Of course, my Ministry is ready to provide all the information as well as the weather. Senators are calling for.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u24	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The secretary of state is pleased to welcome the tone coming from the Minister on the fact that information flow and willingness to communicate and answer the data requests and queries will be best possible. Of course, that's just a good thing. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on two things. I'm gonna start with what's going on to 112. ki., which, in the opinion of a greater part of the employment committee, says by permission of the President: The book also pointed out that bait 112. The deal isn't just about Iceland's interests. Iceland's decision to use its 112th year. would mean that it would also take to other EFTA countries within the EU, i.e. Norway and Liechtenstein. So Iceland cannot make a one-way decision. In view of the greater part, the bait is 112. gr. The EEA Convention is not an option for the toll agreements of Iceland and the European Union; What I want to ask the highest. The minister of foreign affairs in this context is about his attitude on Article 112. Does he think it's working is a matter we think we need to resist? What's the minister's attitude against Article 112? Compared to 102.3%. which was much discussed around the third energy package? Now we decide whether this particular point will fall under it, but if there is a certain point that would be solidly fixed within the range the 112th article dealt with, what would be the highest attitude. A minister for her general use?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u25	A respectable president. First, I'd like to make it clear that the person standing here is the foreign and development co-worker.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u26	Mr President's waiting for the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u27	That's totally taken into consideration. Now, of course, we're talking about something other than connected to what is discussed in general about the EEA Convention. There's no doubt in my mind that if we think it's right to use the articles that are in the contract for some of the situations that arise in Iceland, we will, of course, do it. That's in my mind. I'm not going to have a discussion about the third energy package. With this fine character in the hall, I think we should think we want to celebrate Christmas, so maybe it's not wise to follow that path. We hope we have an opportunity to talk to him about something better. But we have natural rights in the EEA Convention, and we have nothing to hesitate to use in such cases and in such situations. There is no doubt in my mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u28	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of state for which I beg pardon. Foreign, development and cooperation ministers, aren't they?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u29	Developmental co-worker.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u30	I'm sorry, I'm gonna get this thing started at the end of my life. There was another point in a talk of the highest order. A minister I wanted to ask him about. They're facing the challenge of a minister in matters like this. The main material of the underlying contract, where does it take place? Then I'm not referring to the outside of the contract as such but to whether the main hold of the material items is taking place within the Ministry of State or in the Ministry of State, which in this case is the Department of Agriculture. Everyone has a past, and once I was in the same category as the highest. Minister. I was reminded that when I was there, probably 15 years ago, we always cared for teaching - yes, it was common for the minister of the forward category of that time, industrial minister, to be taught the need to replace electricity and distribution systems once, as it was sometimes said, to sleep on the guards in Brussels. It was quite clear then that the Minister of Industrial Affairs at that time was responsible for not requiring leaves in time, not prime minister or foreign minister of the time. Has anything changed in the organization since then? Because I noticed it was the highest. The secretary of state entered earlier that the Prime Ministers and Foreign Ministers of the time this agreement was made today in the Central Party. [[The president calls.]] So it would be interesting to hear the minister's position on whether something has changed in these matters since the beginning of the century. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u31	A respectable president. Speaking of old times and things like that, it's a little special - because of that. A senator was once a member of my team but has joined a class that I believe most of us are more connected with the old forward party - what both he and the president find it difficult to cooperate. The Foreign Secretary of State and Development just seems to be something that can't be done for this fine rush. Senators to report. [[Up front.]] At least very complicated. It's different for me before. [[We're going to a training camp at Christmas.]] Yeah, I'm counting on it. This is no complicated, respectable president. Foreign Minister is also foreign secretary. There's no turning, there's no way. I now assume that the case of this magnitude came on the board of the government. Another would have been a peculiar task management because it is of that magnitude. However, the Department of State and Development is responsible for nearly all aspects of the work. In most cases, this is done. If it weren't, the Department of State and Development would be much much bigger if they were to have all the expertise in all things. However, there is a total scope of responsibility and who is directing the work. I've done a lot of things when it comes to foreign transactions and I'm very satisfied with their jobs, and there's a number of options involved. But in most matters, people call cooperation and cooperation, and I now assume that this is how it is in much larger administrations than here. I heard why. The senators heard that I said cohesion with other departments. It would be better for a man not to try to invent his bike than to work with other people's means of working with him. But it's a matter of who's doing foreign business in Iceland's government. It's perfectly clear, it's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u32	The president will again ask for the highest power. The secretary of state and development apologize for trampling his title, but the president is still getting used to the fact that the Ministers changed their name a little bit when the current government was set up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u33	Mr. President. I thought I had now taken a relatively detailed look at that at the 2nd. The point that I considered important was to point out in this discussion. Then comes the top. Secretary of state and before that. paritaprevir The name of Trausti Friðbertsson, with some seemingly speaking points, without me saying it, was adopted by the master guru. Secretary of state, Björn Bjarnason, former minister and current network system. I hear the highest. A minister works hard to laugh, and he is likely to tell us that what he has explained here is all but a political stand by the Ministry. But, of course, what we're looking up and hearing now is a confirmation of a theory that I passed some time ago and is getting further confirmation that the Independence Party has actually become the same as the Conspiracy had been over a decade ago. It is difficult to find much difference between the priorities, policy, and even the language of the Independence Party today and the United States in the past. Not enough of it, it seems to be the highest category. Secretary of State is developing the work of the old Continental. The union was e.g. known for being exceptionally memoryless. She forgot just as hard what she had participated in, that she had been in the government, that she had participated in certain decisions. She came from the mountains completely, was born new every day. Now it seems to be a standard practice for the Independence Party too. We've seen it in more cases. The Independence Party has no record of having been in the 2016 -2017 government and even not even in 2013 -2016. Everything that happened in those governments was decided by someone other than them. Syndicate: forgetting and being born new every day. But what may be worse is that the Independence Party has adopted the spirit of the Conspiracy to try to reinvent the truth - and now I pray to the highest degree. I'm sorry in advance, but I don't have an Icelandic case for this well-known phenomenon -- i.e. what may characterize our political era, the time after the truth, when it is made equal in human affairs. We've seen an example of this in the discussion here, since people don't know anything about anything that's created that they've proposed and agree to. We're still seeing this. The highest language could not be heard better. Minister of state when he came up here and gave a fairly remarkable talk on a customs agreement with the European Union. This is followed by the approval of the Allied Council, including the Council. with all our votes of the Middle-class, to take a look at the source of this contract. That's when it was at the top. A minister is not in a position to appear in a public chair, almost telling us what to do. Councilmen: You know what this is all about. V.E.G. The minister almost announced to the council that he was going to censor the decision. How he purposes to reach the conclusion he wants to show is another matter. It will be reversed, indeed, because the facts of the matter are factual. However, for the past few years, at a council of the Central Party, we have repeatedly used ourselves for either resignation or a review of the agreement. When the British left the European Union, we pointed out that there was a prerogative and prerogative to use it to revise the contract. This was not well received from the highest. Secretary of state, good if he didn't call it "Populism." Others who were involved in making this contract, which, in turn, proved to be quite different from what was presented, expressed this different objective, a preposterous approach. We're here to celebrate, chief. President, that men have seen their faces and are ready to revise the agreement. By all means, however, they want to try in some way to throw responsibility on him, to those who have spent months and years fighting for the review of the contract or its resignation, and to be short enough for now. Of course, we rejoice at the height. A minister is willing to observe this review, though clearly he is interested in censoring the proposal. V.E.G. After his mentor Björn Bjarnason, a minister noted that at that time it would have been mainly government candidates who made this agreement, especially the prime minister and foreign minister. I didn't make this deal, chief. President. I first heard of him in the form he was when the one standing here was driving north in the country, and then agrienvironmental minister was unexpectedly sent on a live television broadcast to announce that treaties had started in earnest earlier that day, had run out of news under the direction of the minister, and had been signed accordingly, just before the news. They would have started that same day. They would've run out just before the news and been signed. But the highest. A minister who is now following the truth or the ◯post truth to excuse, Mr. President, seems apparently more useful in shielding the lowly in his government and trying in some way - we will see what method the Supreme Court is using. In this report, a minister feels sorry for it - to throw the other responsibility on a contract that was announced in the news that had been completed by the then agricultural minister. Yet, we should not forget that there are aspects of this conversion to the highest degree. A minister, for if any of this review occurs, it is of utmost importance. And then we Middle-class members will not follow up on who instituted the contract or who was the first to highlight the importance of reevaluating it. We'll thank those who had a review. Unfortunately, though, I fear that reassessment will not be met by elections, since the European Union is going to be fixed. We've seen how it's going with the Bgret talks. Will this government or this is the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is standing by the European Union? Very much. A minister who came up here and found all the problems along the lines to revise the contract, the highest. A minister who also took the line from his guru Björn Bjarnason in the discussion of the third energy package and safely delivered it, will he stand up in the hair of the European Union and require review of the contract or will he be ready to resign? The highest. A minister tells us that he is ready to resign? I'm not so sure. Boris, our friend Johnson, is having a hard time dealing with the European Union. Very much. The Minister of Foreign Minister Þór Þórðarson is more committed to the European Union, and is done for the next election review of the customs agreement or is it just a game of election? It's the highest. A minister who is now known for election preparation has looked at the calendar and realized that the right thing to say is to defend Iceland's rights and to revise a contract without necessarily relying on it to the end? The review of the contract cannot be achieved any other than being ready to resign and implement the requirements as indicated. V.E.G. President. I'm gonna let myself hold on to a little hope that this isn't just an election play at the highest level. Ministers, even though the clues may be different; his statements here on the editorial of the release of the contract, the repeated repetitions of the blog transfers of his guru Bjarnason's son, and all his approach to this matter. If the highest. The minister is serious, and he is prepared to have a serious discussion on the review of the contract against his being dismissed, or not, he will have our support. I can promise you the highest. A minister of it. We will celebrate with the highest. Minister if it yields an acceptable result. It's a big interest in Icelandic agriculture not to fall into a pit of conflict here. If they're serious about using them, we're going to get together. That's when we're going to have the biggest bait. Ministers are aware that he will find no more powerful supporters than members of the Central Party. That's why I'm at the highest. Ministers to start this project, perform it fast and fast and, of course, before elections, because it needs to be done quickly. There is a state of emergency in Icelandic agriculture and the consequences of this contract, which has proved to be so completely different from what was announced in TV news one 2015, has been an extremely difficult agricultural experience. That, Mr. President, is at the highest rate. A minister sees this as an encouraging speech to him to have a serious discussion with the European Union, to be effective there, and to know that in real conflicts about the future of the Icelandic agricultural world, he can trust in members of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u34	A respectable president. It was a big speech, and I want to take this opportunity to ask you why. A senator into certain things he said. I'm not going to do anything about it. A senator spoke of men who are unable to answer for him and who have certainly not been involved in this discussion. But because of him. A senator mentioned forgetfulness in some peculiar context, and he is referring to the agreement made in the forwarding government and the Independence Party under the leadership of both. paritaprevir The crew of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, is why. So a senator saying that when he was prime minister and his associate minister of foreign office, he knew nothing of the deal, that he was just driving north in the country, and that he just didn't know what was going on, nothing? Now I thought this deal, except why. A senator corrected me, would have been the case of the government of Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, then the highest. Prime Minister. I think this speech is calling for an explanation. Senator. I've been in three governments with three different prime ministers, and I've never seen people do things like this, like this big deal, and that just doesn't make any sense of it, and least of all. Prime Minister. So I just want to use this opportunity to ask, a respectable president, because I'm not the only one to be curious about the matter and how it was done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u35	Mr. President. Now I'm surprised to be the highest. The minister is surprised. He does not seem to have much opportunity to observe a political debate in Iceland, since I have discussed this matter all over the world, so that there is not a fixed word, in the media, in articles, and here at the Council. I hope to the highest. Ministers are more alert to international developments. But as I mentioned earlier in my speech, all of this is mentioned in the report on the agreement. A discussion was started earlier that day, then it ran out just before news, and it was signed almost in the news class. So, yes, in the end, it was the custody of the then agricultural minister. This does not, of course, change the effectiveness of ministers and prime ministers in many ways as a common responsibility for what happens. I've already said it many times, top dog. President, like the highest. The minister of state would know if he was watching national news, that I apologized for not having been more alert to this agricultural minister in his day who introduced to me and the government contract, which was completely different than it was during the day. Now I'm going to remind the highest. Minister again that in this government the Ministers of the Independence Party were. Now he does not know that he has been a member of the 2013/2016 government, he has completely forgotten his government - it's good to see the highest power. Ministers are given support from an unexpected route - in 2016-2017, recognize it, were born new yesterday, and will be left to approved cases, e.g. The issues we discussed here and the council approved today, they are not recognized in time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u36	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this much. On the other hand, I think this will call for discussion in another area because of what may be. A senator is here describing such remarkable details, just as it were. I've been in three governments, and I've said a case like this would never have come through, just somehow, and without Prime Minister's hand holding it and keeping an eye on it. We know exactly how things are presented to a government. Every Minister, at least in the governments I've been in, needs to be thoroughly familiar with. If you have any doubts, you look at it between meetings, have your experts do it, etc. There's no small issue here. And because of what? A senator speaks a lot about being firm, but I don't feel like I'm quite going to make a sound and a picture here. I don't know if I'm right. A senator is saying that this has never happened before. I think it must be unique, perfect example. Like what? A senator described this agreement as being made on about one day, and when he was ready, they just said yes and received some little presentation that was nothing but deception. I must wonder, because I've been in three governments and I've been tracking politics for a long time, what kind of operation this was, therefore, of course. A senator was saying that it was amazing. It was amazing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u37	V.E.G. President. The president sensed some bitterness in this counterargument. Minister? At least we sense it to the highest. While the minister has not observed the local media and discussed this matter, he intends to censor a report in which he explains how all of this occurred. And it's like the highest. Ministers also know that there are countless cases that have gone through government in recent years and decades without all ministers wanting these matters to go through in a manner that discussed. But I'm glad to hear that. Ministers consider it serious if we in the government, the council, and the general public were deceived by the influence of the contract in our time. Perhaps this will be mentioned in the report at the highest level. Minister's planning to editor, but I don't think that's likely to happen from the bottom line at the highest level. A minister who initially proclaimed that he was going to reach a certain conclusion. Surely, then, we must ask ourselves, in response to the ultimate opposition. Minister if the Independence Party is not quite hard on accepting a highland park. Environment Minister, provided by government, or a number of other cases that the government, either in sleep or carelessly, has released there and stood before either coming here and pressing the green button and swallowing the vomit, like one o'clock. A senator expressed it, or talking himself away from it. [[For example, consider: Are we to stick to our material?]] [[Up front.]] V.E.G. President. We do not need to look beyond today's discussion of maternity. This amazing discovery. Perhaps a minister isn't that great. But as I mentioned at the outset, the Independence Party is born new every day, even within the day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u38	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for the discussion. It has been very interesting and enjoyable in many ways. I admit I wasn't going to take this discussion today. I thought that this discussion was well answered, that we have a contract with the European Union that needs to be revised. We need to change this to-do. True, we need to do much more than that. After decades of managing financial matters, we need to investigate how the Independence Party began to screw up customs on the streets of the country. There's so many things hanging around here. What brought me up here was actually the highest word. Minister of Foreign Affairs on how international agreements are carried out. First, I'd like to state that, of course, you're right by the highest level. Minister, by the administration of our Icelanders the Foreign Minister is responsible for the construction of international agreements, there is no question, not one question. You're absolutely right. On the other hand, it has been a very long custom - a respectable president, I hope that it will still occur, but if not, a certain coup has been established within the government that I am only going over. - It's been customary, so Prime Ministers are giving talks about the other things and these things. If you make the effort to search the world's search engines, there are many examples to find. However, they also find examples in which the Ministry of State has been guided, controlled, and cared for by the State Department of State. Some time ago, after some speech, I decided to review the discussion at the State Department of State in my time on the high-relevant contract. Secretary of state testifies. I think it's the highest. A minister would do well to listen now, but that is his problem. [[Up front.]] I asked the counseled and true State Department officials - who are very good and very good at their jobs, and so to say immediately, the State Department of State was with one of its better officials in that group who made a deal with the European Union on these customs, let us not forget it either. However, as is often true in such matters, the custody was on hand of agrienvironmental ministers. Anyway, I turned to the Ministry, asking for me to find all the data and memos that would have been found to a minister on this case, all the data. I felt that I needed to recall because I was beginning to fear - I am not a very memorable man, but I was beginning to fear that it would be worse than it is. However, the conclusion is that according to the Ministry Department e-mail, one secret memo in the Ministry is found to be the minister of foreign affairs on this toll agreement. It's dated March 18, 2016. It's a very short, nice memo. It is simply a proposal to conclude the agreement with the Council and this synonym was to be brought before the government and into Congress by the then foreign minister. In fact, it never came to pass, for the minister of foreign affairs, of course, refused to bring it up before the council at the time when, of course, the contract was not quite as successful as man intended. In fact, I've been writing about the article, which would be okay to print again, how it all happened. One morning, a man woke up at 7:27 a.m. and heard in the news that the head of the local community was very excited about the deal. Then a man calls the Coalition Chairman and asks who the devil is going on - excuse the language, Mr. President. And that was because of lack of communication. You see, the deal was made very fast. It was done in the way this has been described. But it is true that the basic responsibility for the implementation of international agreements is at the State Department. But one memo, and not even a comment on what is in that contract, came on the table of Ministers. But here comes the big story for the Minister, the coup that takes place inside the government. On the basis of what the minister himself says, Mr President, he directs and controls all international agreements and he handles all these matters, I'm going to read this from a news report for the highest level. Minister. His colleagues, in the government, the minister of the sea, found in the sacred city of Brussels for mackerel, if I recall correctly, or some seabed. A fine picture of the seafaring minister with his colleagues in Brussels. But it says, by permission of the president: ▪ I stressed that there is an agreement as soon as possible in coastal settlements. Unchanged overfishing from these institutions will have unexpected consequences and undermine the reputation of the party's contract as responsible fish populations. At the meeting, I reported that I had given the National Convention Committee the order that we would use ourselves to get these talks back into business. Everyone has the advantage of their discussions to produce results. - Said Kristján Þór Júlíusson, ocean-surrection minister. I may have misunderstood the highest. Secretary of State when he said that he would handle all that negotiations. If that's how he negotiates this fishing but the highest. Minister Kristján Þór Júlíusson is going to order the contract board what to do, only the Ministry will need to review it. But this is how, the Ministry of State and Ministers are responsible for the implementation of international contracts. He does, however, assign other advisers and often plan to make such contracts, the so - called facades. An example of this is e.g. environmentally. If we look e.g. At the Paris Convention, it is employed at the Ministry of Environment, led there, even though a minister of foreign law had reached the negotiations, of course, including employees and all of them. All the professional work, all the precision, numbers review, and all that, that's the Department of Professional Affairs that does this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u39	Mr. President. I recommend a change form from a major health committee in this matter. The two - joint adjustment proposal goes on to reimburse the proposal that was called back at 2nd. To explain why. Senators on what this is all about, I think I'll read 3 mg. 9. G., to which members of Congress are expected to have become quite clear, which would then be silent with this adjustment proposal, with the permission of a president: ▪ If a parent is made a restraining order to his child, to the other parent and/or separation from home, and is unable to take care of his child during the 24 months following the birth of the child, the right will move toward the birthworm that has been formed. 1.mg. Section 8. and a parent has not already made use of himself to the other parent. The same is true when a parent is unable to care for his child for the same reason during the first 24 months after a child enters a home on the first stage or takes into a permanent fetus. This is true whether parents share in their child's custody or not. The police officer or court shall confirm that the parent will submit a restraining order to his child, to the other parent and/or separation from home during the above mentioned period. At the transfer, the right of the parent who has a restraining order and/or a home evasion to the rights that the other parent has earned according to these laws. As the members of the council know, this proposal was called back, but it is now reassigned after a discussion on the committee. Then, in my opinion, it is impossible to go further on the 9th floor. ... butthere'sanimportation. The second part of the adjustment is about a new provisional principle proposed by the majority. It says so, with president's permission: A panel should be divided by the Ministry of Justice and Department of Social Affairs, in which there should also be a member of the State Police Department, offering proposals to allow the parent's unscrupulous maternity rights to be moved to the other parent. The task force considered how to change the law to this purpose and whether at the same time the rules on restraining order and expulsion from home should be changed. The service group submitted their results no later than March 1, 2021. Ministers, by incident, present a bill based on results of the work group no later than April 1, 2021. After receiving advice from the Committee scene and, in fact, from other lawyers, we make this suggestion. The majority feel that the opinions discussed and toreed here tonight must be examined and evaluated in the next two months, as indicated by the proposal. To this, a respectable president, I offer this proposal here and suggest that it be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u40	Mr. President. I recommend a change to the bill for a song about birth and parentorof, which is the two - point adjustment. First piece goes on and on. ▪ If a parent is made a restraining order against his child or the other parent, or separation from home, the right to the birthworm is transferred to the institution. 1.mg. Section 8. and the parent has not already made use of himself to the other parent unless the parents have agreed otherwise. This is true whether parents share in their child's custody or not. The police officer or court should confirm that the parent is a restraining order or is expelled from the home. At the transfer, the right of the parent is to be called a restraining order or deportation from a home to the rights that the other parent has earned under these laws. The parent who has received the right move according to this requirement should be at any time allowed to return that right to the other parent. 3 mg 30. g. phrases like: ▪ If a parent is made a restraining order against his child or the other parent, or separation from home, the right to the onset of birth energy is transferred. 1.mg. Twenty-six. or 1.mg. 27. ., and a parent has not already made use of it, unless the parents have agreed otherwise. This is true whether parents share in their child's custody or not. The police officer or court should confirm that the parent will be subject to a restraining order to his child or to expulsion from home during the above period of time. At the transfer, the right of the parent is to a restraining order and/or to the rights that the other parent has earned according to these laws. The parent who has received the right move according to this requirement should be at any time allowed to return that right to the other parent. Mr. President. These proposals are completely in accordance with the law currently in the bill on the application of rights for restraining order under the rules of restraining ban and expulsion from home. The impossibles mentioned above support more of the committee's parts in discussing other laws under a foreign minister than the one responsible for the cause of obstetricals. I'm totally dismissing this. We're here talking about right to birthworm, not changing the restraining order. Here we are talking about the right to birthworm, the right of a child, and the right of a parent who has been subjected to severe violence, severe violence, threats of violence, the right to take birthworm for 12 months during the first months of a child's life. There is no need for a working group in this matter, a respectable president. It takes a political will to protect parents and children in such circumstances and to protect their right to 12 months'birth stock to conform to the rights of other children and other parents, where only one parent enjoys. It takes political courage, political will, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u41	Mr. President. These funds do not have a sufficient number of jobs, nor do they care about the number of people who have lost their jobs. These are not the green revolutions that have been offered here, and there are still little investments. The government's investment campaign is actually only 1% of land production, and it is not enough to meet the deepest crisis for 100 years. Environmental improvement is, in fact, only 0.1% of land production and the addition to innovation is 0.3% of national product. Unemployment should be reduced by 1 percent next year. These financial laws do not provide the answer to the situation that the Icelandic nation faces. I know the government groups think they're doing enough. They're not doing enough, and it's not just the assessment of government opposition, it's the assessment of stakeholders, rural society, the Microcording Community, the National Association of seniors, students, patients, the poor, etc. Do more, Mr. President, we need to do more now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u42	Mr. President. It is clear in these budgets that Independence Party, Expensitization Group, and Left Green are not going to improve the interest of older citizens, and that's elections in nine months. Older citizens will not forget that. The middle class moved 14 different forms at the bill, three of which moved on to older citizens. In spite of their financial resources, they were all covered. The central class is a responsible financial group and does not offer irreprehensible suggestions for tens of billions. We have supported needed measures for the pandemic, that are planned for the government, and that can be done successfully without affecting those who are now in need of help. Investigated by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, it is the motto of the Independence Party. The money is stained with elections that lie ahead. Economic growth should be very high if it is not to be cut down or made tax count. That economic growth is not predictable. The problem is to the next government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u43	President. Money is in the full purpose of the majority cooperation, when more of the council decides to come together and determine how financial laws are being prepared. Everything else is considerably less important. Greater cooperation is about budgeting, and these budgets testify to the social situation because of the code. At the same time, they display a lack of vision. All the action we have considered here is an emergency response to the situation, a conflict of action that the government has either supported, stood by, or made comments in an effort to do better, but what is far out of sight. It's not in next year's budget bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u44	V.E.G. President. We've been talking about suggestions on budgets, financial plans, and the budgets we're about to vote for. There are many issues to discuss, but it is not clear that no other budget has been found to be the same between discussions in other budgets. One thing is certain: This budget carries out the situation we are dealing with, and if any word is appropriate after all this discussion, it is an interview for Icelandic employment, for the Icelandic economy, for the Icelandic home. That's what these funds keep.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u45	A respectable president. I wanted to cooperate with the chairman of the Board of Funds to inform the General that the proposal to ensure that deposit-free menstrual products are ensured in the school system is being taken into account in my Ministry. I believe that the availability of menstrual products in the school system is both fair and just. I've already directed it to the schoolmaster to secure the progress of the case. High school already offers free menstrual access. I believe it is realistic that by the end of the next school, the matter will have been closed. A respectable president. This bill for financing for 2021 marked a turning point in the history of the land and is characterized by great courage and forethought. The objective of the bill is clear, to do what it takes to get Iceland out of the crown virus. We're getting our arms around our people, our health and education system. We're gonna get Iceland through this. I would like to thank the budget especially for the well-work and the chairman of the budget Committee, Willum Þór Þórsson, for his extraordinary leadership and for having his heart in place. [[The president calls.]] We've done what we have to, and we're moving on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u46	Mr. President. We have been critical of the government's administration in the early part of this election period, have criticized the government for losing control of the government, and the government funds have become unsuspectable for Covid. However, since the time of Covid, various measures have been taken. We have been very supportive of this, even though we do not always agree on all things. We had to do something radical, but we had changed our viewpoints in many ways. Now we need to look to the future. Of course, there we are concerned about how all of this is played out. There will be difficult work to do, without doubt. During our restoration, we are more than ready to face the challenges involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u47	Mr. President. At such times, the nature of the matter is in accordance with the need to put together funds for one community. I believe, however, that this has done well. We have budgets that can make an Icelandic society powerful next year, and we are ensuring a lot of money into our infrastructure, which we really need right now. It's been a tricky project, but we've been successful, and I'm looking forward to paying my votes to these funds, and we're in the left green.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u48	Mr. President. Hv. This proposal should be familiar with members of Congress. Here's a suggestion for 60 million. K. annual contributions to establish an independent human rights agency. A similar proposal was made in a financial program yesterday, and I'm going to give the members of Congress a chance to realize that they had plastics there. Of course, Iceland is committed by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People to have such an institution active. Because we have neglected to establish such an institution, we have been rebuked by the United Nations General Assembly on Human Rights. Another such assessment will start next year, and if we don't want to be caught all over us again, we'll start this institution next year, and the council will start by ensuring financial support for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u49	President. I'm saying yes, of course, to this proposal, but here's a adjustment to the high school maintenance requirement of 0.9%. The bill also says that the maintenance level should be 0.5%, not 0.9%. So this is an adjustment to that number. The discussion has shown that this is only a discrepancy in the topic field, although the most part of it is from school, which has a holding requirement of 0.5%. The figure may not be very accurate, but there is no other suggestion from the greater part that makes it more accurate. If the Senate prefers only 0.5% of the college maintenance requirements but not 0.9%, he votes for this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u50	Mr. President. Happily, our standard of living in general has improved, and life expectancy has increased and, fortunately, a large proportion of older citizens enjoy quite good benefits. Yet, some 9,000 still live in poverty, and many live under evil conditions. Much of that was previously in disability, is in the market, or simply does not have a good backland. By agreeing with this proposal, we can be sure to meet the modest demand of the older citizen's National Association that pensions rise by 15,750, just as was agreed in the biography agreements. That's it. This costs almost 3 billion, and we must be able to afford to ensure that these people also share in the biographies.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u51	Mr. President. This isn't the world's largest adjustment proposal, but it's an important turn-up of 75 million. This is a suggestion to increase birth strength. The level of birth is silent as it is today. For parents outside the workforce, birth strength is 83,000. per month. Can you imagine, 83,000 krush? per month. And for parents in full - time education, the strength is 170,000. This is where the United States suggests that we cut this down, not particularly much, but let's cut it back. This figure, 75 million, is not anything that puts our state funds on the head and puts these numbers in context, since numbers need contexts, they are lower than what this government puts on the Memorial.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u52	Mr. President. This suggests an increase of 200 million. K. Since the start of the Korean epidemic, the need for food distribution has increased dramatically. No one should have to rely on food supplies in Iceland, but waiting people who have very few time left to feed from day to day. The government has issued all of the UN's proposals for funding to the people who need it most and now need to rely on food supplies. In the spirit of Christmas, I'm so thrilled. Councilmen to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u53	Mr. President. I'd like to use this opportunity at the last vote to thank members of the budget for their cooperation very much. It's been fun sharing in the work of the legal committee. We don't always agree, and I've had a word that we're not being listened enough to in the smaller parts, yet there's still been a good worker on the budget. I appreciate it. I want to thank you very much. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, chairman of the Committee, for good and satisfying cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u54	A respectable president. When the General pays at the end of the 3rd. The vote on next year's budget is clear that we're accepting the last budget of the season, but we're also ending an amazingly long process. We've developed a financial programme on two occasions, we've brought in five of the budgeted products, and we had to seek the approval of the General Assembly for postponing the contributions of the budget bill which has since made remarkable changes in the council. I just want to say for my part that I feel that the cooperation, despite the extraordinary challenges and special circumstances, was very good, and the committee here at the council was doing an important job under difficult circumstances. I believe that the government has these financial laws to lay the foundation for a fight that will prove extremely valuable to us in the years to come when we need as an organization, as an economy, to grow.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u55	Mr. President. As we have seen, the Consequences versus this bill, stressing the importance of dealing with the problem of this article and thus encouraging the government to face farmers rather with financial support and to protect the consumers of the country from inflation. It is wrong to prevent healthy competition by means of measures that are also harmful to consumers. We in the United States have been supported by public support for agricultural production, but it is crucial that if established, it should not compete more than is necessary and ensure farmers and consumers the maximum benefits but not the intermediate.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u56	V.E.G. President. We're here votes for agricultural laws that show the government's reaction to the problem of agriculture, supply status, leg and ports. We'd like to pay for the government's transition, but we would've wanted to go further. We would have wanted to postpone an invitation and be completely that way. We need to stand by agriculture, by means of farmers, by supplying Icelandic food, and so do we by being straight behind our backs. In these critical times, it is necessary to maintain confidence and to stand with our industry, such as agriculture, directly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u57	A respectable president. I'm on this one. This is a good step, though we candidates feel that we need to do better and more. Tollovate exports, customs monitoring, and other projects must be taken, as we declared, the government, to the labour market parties earlier in the fall. They're in business and planning for the government. But I also come up for a discussion that was earlier this evening on the part of the former coalesce of the government, then Prime Minister and Foreign Minister. I've never heard a pure lie like this, ever. This is a follow - up and an attempt to create a new truth. [[The president calls.]] If we want to talk about this, we need to have longer than the last day before Christmas, at 3rd. About livestock.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u58	A respectable president. I vote against this case because I don't think it serves the interests of farmers. I don't think it serves the interests of consumers or society, let alone the homes that are now fighting in difficult times, for as clients have pointed out; the ASIA, the consumers and others, the crop will rise. It has been quite remarkable to experience this competition between the conservatives here for the best and best possible opportunity to raise customs here instead of looking for other modern and normal solutions based on freedom of business and consumer protection, but not least to support real Icelandic agriculture. Speaking of the joys of Christmas and other things, I would still like to try to distinguish a certain line between groups here that we all want to be supportive of Icelandic agriculture. Let's take it home, make it better at the bottom but with some old-fashioned methods to protect our agriculture. He deserves better and more. The same applies to Icelandic consumers. [[The president calls.]] But I encourage us to cooperate with Icelandic agriculture, which will guide the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u59	Mr. President. I take a sound note here to express my joy with the good phase that is achieved here tonight by this vote. We as officers have spent a long time fighting for 12 months of maternity. In fact, such proposals were adopted at a Assembly Hall in the long administration of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, decommissioned in the summer of 2013. We have offered such suggestions several times in recent years, but we have come to terms, and so we are truly happy tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u60	A respectable president. I also come up here to celebrate this milestone and to draw attention to the fact that this matter was marked by a disagreement between people, whether within the government or even within the individual councils - the votes that occurred at the end of 2 Peter 3: 1 - 5. "by the way, tell a few stories about the votes, such as it was the story -- that the decrees changed or not, then all the members of the Council voted with every law of the bill. That's what it's all about. It's a good bill. This is an important stage, and I congratulate all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u61	A respectable president. I want like the other people who have been coming up here, so happy we're here to vote for a 12-month birth holiday extension, which is the final operation in the government's program. We were both going to raise and extend our pensions, and that's what we're going to do here. Like others, I would like to say that in this matter there are differing opinions about details, but fortunately, I think that all of us can agree on the importance of taking this step. I am so glad we're finishing this bill. I want to thank you for your cooperation with what. a welfare committee in the progress of the situation, and hopefully we will succeed in continuing to the Allied Parliament taking steps to further improve this system in the years ahead. Thank you. A well - being committee for good cooperation and wishes to congratulate all of us on taking this step here today. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u62	President. It is a joy to have a baby's womb extended, but it would be better for parents to be trusted to handle that right for themselves, as if it were better for parents to be trusted to make a medical decision for their children. But we are living in a time when words get new and often opposing meanings, and the facts seem to be secondary, but the labels paint the main points. They speak in phrases without content, as we last heard from the highest level. Secretary of transportation. Nevertheless, these changes would include a greater amount of room for parents to make use of maternity, but it would have been better if they had freedom and trusted parents. Still, it seems that many members of the Parliament do not.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u63	Mr. President. I am very happy to sit at the Council today and vote on this good case, which is making progress for both children in Iceland and also for progress on sexual equality. This issue is about two things: promoting equality between the sexes, especially in the Icelandic labour market, and living better in Iceland's children's families. It meets these conditions, and it is indeed a joy to share in this payment here and to sense this great solidarity, for it is indeed a matter that affects the values of society, just as the birthworm bill became a law in 2000. It changed the attitude of many toward sharing in the training of their children. This is a joyful time, and I will gladly support this good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u64	Madam President. Of course, I'd like to agree with the people here who are happy that Iceland is finally reaching the goal of offering 12 months of birth to parents. Iceland has run the train in the North. The setting we're putting on of families and children and the vital factors we're putting on the sexual equality of a labour market, and inside the home is a source of great joy. In this context, although all of us are here for Christmas, we are disappointed that we have failed to go higher with the income limits, thus enabling more parents to use the orcs, thus supporting children and families more fully and achieving the fairness goals of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u65	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with all that. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunnuldóttir said above, as soon as I'm special in this matter and I feel I'm in part, and I'm sure to be the highest. The president also, a certain privileged person, should be here after 20 years of vote and can say yes, press the green button, and be proud that we still protect families, much less equal to equality. You've heard me here today discuss a certain view of my wanting to see the other steps on equality. Nevertheless, and in view of how we approach things at the outset, this is a reason for joy. We're not completely satisfied, I believe that a step back has been taken but, nevertheless, this in the big movie is a huge deal. We're going up to 12 months, ensuring a measure of security for families, and that is a cause of joy, something that all of us can say on the contrary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u66	A respectable president. I agree with someone else. The members of the council that this is a happy day, that we are accepting these great legal benefits for parents and children and families in the country and for future generations, and all of us are to be proud of it. There are a wide variety of things in this legislation that can affect how well it works, and therefore the legislation is always developing. There are many things you can do at a time that you can do more and more. That's where we're all going, raise the roofs, raise the minimum income, and increase flexibility. It only worked today from the original bill. But this is a happy day, and we can continue to do well with this important law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u67	A respectable president. It is indeed a happy day today, that we can finish this matter in relative harmony and harmony, and there is no question that here is a much progressive step. This includes equals and increased rights for both children and children, but there are more things in this. There is also greater equality between those who have to go through long distances and those who have to feed away from home, which is a good addition. It is also increasing the rights of those who are alone or who lose their mate or something like that. It is filled with increased rights that we have lost in our discussion of change. The exchange is completely acceptable, and it's the proud candidate who's pressing the green button below.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u68	A respectable president. I'm going to join those who've spoken before, of course, it's happy that this case has come to port, and now before the season, although it hasn't worked so hard to catch the landing it is. Although there have been differences of viewpoints, it's just what it is, this prolongation, and it's really important. But again, I'm going to reiterate what I said earlier today during my discussion, that the economic part is missing. It is important because for the time that has been extended to be really new and it has to be clearly seen on the economic side. But I look forward to it, and I believe that this project will be resumed after New Year's Eve and continue in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u69	A respectable president. I want to respond favorably to this matter and agree that it is indeed a happy day. Because of what? I'm going to say that here we have a proud feminist standing by the length of maternity, which is probably the most important sex equal case after all, perhaps the most important conflict between fathers before and after, to ensure this equation. For this reason, too, I would like to mention an enormously important legal act that we did earlier in this terms of modern pregnancy violation legislation, which was also a major step for the feminists of all categories. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] And once again, we are taking steps in the spirit of gender equality and feminism.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u70	Not only has the president seen that he would want to discuss the votes, but he intends to give in to them to say that his old heart is also pleased to be included in this matter's payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u71	Mr. President. I have not had the opportunity to look closely at these provisions, much less this proposal. This is a connection between the intake of oorlofs and the restraining order. Of course, this is often a bad case that comes automatically and should be prevented from associating with a baby. What, though, is the exact reason why this is included in the law of maternity? How does this relate to two things? Is a parent to be given a longer oregano when it comes to the other parent's having a restraining order and then, just then, this holiday dish is fully overreached? Why? We were just today to rule out all the rights between parents, except for those six weeks. This is once so that in some cases there is no particular problem with association with the child in these matters. [[The president calls.]] This is a very long time before this society is completely excluded and, in every case, disassociated with its child.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u72	Mr. President. I feel compelled to come up because of words. paritaprevir Middle class, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, who said that he had not studied the suggestion, the case, or what it's all about. But I think it's worth pointing him to, because he's going to vote, that this is a case of rights when the other parent doesn't like it. There are nine paragraphs in the 9th paragraph. The bill. This is an addition to a sentence that ensures the safety and right of children when the second parent is subjected to a parental restraining order following violence, persecution, threats, and so on, when a restraining order has been passed by police, prosecution, or courts. [[Suspect, suspected.]] Just to make it clear why it's in there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u73	Mr. President. I'm well acquainted with the restraining order. I know them. I repeat, we must be a little careful. And I ask myself, " What is the connection between the restraining order and the birthlord's rights and the transfer between the parents? ' That's what I was wondering. What's the connection? Why is it that a parent in this position should be given more than the law expects, and we just fell today, moving in between? I just wondered, in general, which way we are going. Of course, these cases are difficult and often violent, I know that. But I believe that with this, especially with such strict obligation on this move and especially in the absence of the child itself, we are more likely to be promoting more aggressive and inconsistency in these matters and are not improving.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u74	Honorable generals. Then it is finally our last meeting at the General Assembly for Christmas Reunion, our last meeting in 2020. By 2020 the population has been having difficulty in various ways. In fact, we Icelanders have one of those amazing years in our history where great events are arranged together. If we look back a little over a year, there was a violent fire, allowing me to say, howlingly, in the country that destroyed the electrical network, disturbed telecommunications, dropped livestock, and caused many problems. The year was followed by natural disasters in the west, avalanches that recalled painful memories and caused loss, but the cost of human life was happy this time. Then came the crown virus epidemic that we are still in. But this year, as I suspected, was not over. I thought Katla might be a disaster, but it was the natural forces of the East that reminded me yesterday and today with frightening news from the South. All of us now have the minds of the Syrians, the Ecstasy, and other inhabitants of the East. From here on, from the Allied Parliament of the Icelanders. It should be kept in mind when we consider work in the 151th legislature that in the fall, it occurred three weeks later than usual. So I think that we can be happy with our performance, although time has been shorter than often before. This first section of the 151th Council is extended to 89 members of the administration and to the 13th Amendment. At that time, a number of members of the council have been proposed, both the bills and the synopsis. The bottom line is 76 and the 95 suggestions. In addition, there have been six cases, four bills, and two Parliamentaries. Of these, 39 are laws, and 11 laws have been adopted. Three committee cables became law, and one council proposal was accepted. All the most important matters tied to a New Year's shoot have been decommissioned, as is the case with a pandemic crown. The success is especially due to the agreement between councils on time for Christmas break. I want to use this opportunity to thank the council presidents especially for their fine share in the final payment of a case that made this final process effective and effective. Legal cables associated with the Korean epidemic, and adopted as a law from the Council of 151th, have already been well established in the third ten years, and three outcomes related to the pandemic have been adopted. Of course, it's quite unique, like the highest. The secretary of finance mentioned earlier, that five of the budgets have been approved this year, and they are not so small in terms of interest. If we look at the year 2020 in total, i.e. the part 150, of the legislation that fell within it and now in the 151th Council, there are primes related to the impact of the epidemic and that have been passed by the General Assembly well at the sixth and by a dozen allegories have been approved. Since the beginning, the Ministers of the government have 9 times delivered oral reports of the epidemic to the General of the United States. These figures show all the importance of the continued functioning and presence of the Council in order to carry out its role throughout the epidemic and to this day. As a result of the GDP, many international events have had to be eliminated, and, of course, it was most important to eliminate the traditional Northern Council for the first time in the history of Norwegian cooperation. Another international work of the Generals has also been limited to telecommunications and meetings of regular committees in the vast majority of the ways by telecommunications. A good agreement was given to change the assembly so that the committees could make the most of their work on telecommunications and no longer need special variations. The Committee on Greater Changes in Congress, appointed representatives of all classes, is at work and can expect a bill to change the terms of engagement in the new year. There is also the development of a new election bill to the management and monitoring committee. It is the ambition of the entire reunion of all the laws of general elections and the regulations of a single bill, which has taken the lead in the whole project since 2014. More progressive steps are being taken, and a month ago Aldulis's contract and contractor's contract was signed on the third stage of new office building in Alduke County. A week ago, the first poured into a convention, and it certainly is a happy milestone. At the end of this last meeting of 2020, I thank the members of Congress, the Parliaments, and the Ministers and, above all, for their fine work. The people of the Generals have done an amazing work, at least every one of them visible, this year without judgment, and because of the circumstances here, and we are in great debt to it. I wish everyone happy New Year's and merry New Year. Anyone who has a long journey home, I wish we could all meet together in a whole new year. I will send my best Christmas and New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u75	A respectable president. On behalf of us general councilmen, I'd like to thank the presidents and vice presidents for our cooperation during the winter, especially with members of the council, and warm words for members of Congress. In particular, I would like to thank the members of the Parliament for the invaluable assistance to members of the council we have enjoyed in these difficult times, especially at stress points that are often unpredictably predictable and often. Because of a pandemic crown virus, most of us are close to loved ones and family members we are getting used to during this time of year, but rather, let us take good care of one another and look forward to meeting, shaking hands, and generally being around one another. The future challenges of the pandemic will undoubtedly be the most extensive work of the Generals in the coming years. When they get back together after Christmas break, hopefully they'll be refreshed and in a position to deal with them. All of us, though, remember that while we have differing views about what is the right way, or even where we are, we are all in the same mission. If it's not clear now, I'm sure it will be when it's over. Thank you for the President and staff, and wish them and the council a merry Christmas and a happy New Year. I ask senators to agree by getting out of their seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u76	Thank you. 3.m. Smoke. n., Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, for warm words to me. I repeat my thanks and preaching and thanking the senators for accepting his word by getting out of their seats.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-43.u77	Iceland's number tells: That, according to the approval of the Generals, I am authorized by the prime minister to postpone the discovery of the General Assembly of 151th, from December 18, 2020, or later, if necessary, to January 18, 2021. All units, December 17th, 2002. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. The Presidency Letter for Pronunciation Found the Generals By this request and by references to the approval of the General Assembly, I declare that General Assembly meeting 151 is postponed. I want to thank you. All council members and members of the Generals for a good partnership with the rest of this strange and extraordinary convocation and wish you all as well as the people of the country for a happy Christmas and a success in the new year.
