ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u1	So far all the programs have been held that they are too soon since the release of a Senate document. So there is a agreement to be made on the program and now a vote for variations. It is requested that there be a special vote for a variation for the third part of the program and that it be accepted. So the vote that has begun today is a variation of the 1st and 2nd part of the program, i.e. The originals of budgets and government responsibilities that are primecasts allow them to appear in the meeting, even if documents have been oversold by a short time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u2	This will be a vote for the same variant for the 3rd part, i.e. the bill on the related insurance rights and the business of pension funds, moved by a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u3	Mr. President. I recommend more of the Committee's budget on bill for funding by 2020, as stated by law No. 104/2020, and bill to legalize state responsibilities, No. 121/11997. Both primary maps were referred to the legal committee on August 28, which deals with the same subject, the granting of state responsibilities on loans to Icelanda. The Commission has found quite a lot on this matter, and representatives from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs have entered three times at a meeting of the Committee to explain the matter and answer the questions of the Committee. It is a big, complex, and complex matter, and it can be said that many questions were asked, and so the Ministry responded very much and gave us all the information it had. The Committee also met with representatives of various stakeholders, including party in travel service, and I'm not gonna count them all up, but they're mentioned in the committee's opinion. In addition to a standard committee meeting, members were invited to a meeting held in Harsa, where representatives of Illelands reported their investment announcement as well as as as a group of four advisers who worked on the preparation of this case and the terms of the state's responsibility made report for their work as well as advice from Deloitte who has been hired to obtain and identify financial information. A adviser provided information to visitors, representatives to the budget board, and presidents of the political parties. I think most lights are the main element and purpose of these bills and the need for the law. From the beginning of unforeseeable and unprecedented circumstances created because of a pandemic crown virus, the government has economic measures to protect the work of the people. That has been done even. by inhibiting the provision of enterprises which, under normal circumstances, would be successful in running out of business because of temporary circumstances. The primary projection is given permission for Ministers to provide Illelandir Group Corp. The voluntary responsibilities of the state's funds on loans due to the company's income drop in the case of a pandemic crown virus and to compromise the laws on state responsibilities, No. 121/11997. I will later discuss laws on state responsibilities and why it is reasonable for us to deviate from them in a greater part of the legal committee. For this reason, the total debt of state funds may be worth up to 108 million dollars, 90% of $120 million, or up to 15 billion. Compared to the U.S. dollar gang at the bill input. As shown in the bill's report, there are rich reasons for helping a government company with a company on the market. The majority agree with these views, as if the assistance of the public with an enterprise is never self-employed and a high level of public interest has to be staked. We believe that this is the case, and the reasons will be further attributed to the following. The status of a pilot has been very difficult during the last year, as anyone should be aware. This adjustment occurs because there has been a complete collapse of global air traffic in the last few months. This collapse is due to a combined collapse in the demand and action of national nations to curb the spread of the crown virus. Flights and restrictions on public travel have seen light that has never been brought to bear in modern history. The International Air Action Agency evaluates the recession of operating incomes on international air traffic as 3553/4392 billion dollars in 2020. This has been close to 100% in recent periods in Iceland. The article will further discuss the changes, the major air - traffic contractions, and the same. a table showing the change in tablet form. There is no doubt that such an airline is inhospitable. The prosperity of airlines has been virtually none while large expense teams remain unmoted, and a number of countries have provided systematic assistance by one or another to key members in the past few months. The strong personal position of Icelanda along with the general action of the Icelandic government has made it realistic for the Society to get financial support on the market in order to face a changed reality. This situation has not been accomplished by a great number of other airlines. The greatest risk of flying today is uncertainty about the length of time between the growth of the demand for travel there and the rise of passengers to the country, and of course we want to be optimistic about the fast - moving process. It is difficult to predict this, but it is important to hope for the best and take the steps that can be taken to ensure the best results. Iclanders are in a unique position, due to long history, size of expeditions, and structure, in order to meet the increased demand for air transport to Iceland when demand is restored. We have a little coverage in the commission on the Keflavour Airport, the center of a link-fly. It is considered that in order to best protect the decades of experience and value in building the Cheflavor airport as a interface center and the knowledge of flying and flying in this country, more than anything else is needed. A strong interface centre is essential for the whole-time health of tourism. Nearer reports 23 of the 36 flight routes of the company are in place as a result of a connector. One of the main factors is the use of economic growth for many years. Airrelated activities play an important role in Iceland's economic and employment. It can be said that living in this country would be quite different if it had not been for such a structure. An investment in the manpowers and infrastructures of the flight is an important part of the nation's economy. The premise of the success of the economy is to keep them valuable and ready to go as soon as the opening breaks off and the start of the flight begins again, where a powerful home - flight society is extremely important. That is the subject of the committee's opinion, but for the sake of time, I am not going to review everything that is written from word to word, which is a fundamental factor. The committee dived into and examined key options and risk factors for granting state responsibilities and called for memos from a government control group that I made clear at the beginning of my case on the analysis of options that led to the basic work behind the bills. The first option is to continue the Icellands in the present form with the existing government plans to support economic restructuring and working as citizens of the government of loan lines for success. The need for assistance in the form of funds or loans was also examined. Also, images of what to do were examined if Iclands were to fail and how to support them. The results of the government's work force were that the only practical option would be 1A, to support Icelandda's economic restructuring and operating plan to ensure that, for a shorter time, a flying airline in Iceland meets the government's criteria for effective flight transport between Iceland and other countries, and that there can be a short reversal of the economy as the effect of the pandemic is lost. In the meantime, Iclanders are not likely to start a new airline for the government. In this case, the government should ensure a competitive environment for airlines to begin the flight to and from Iceland. In addition to the above alternative analyses, the team worked, including the group. that the consequences of failure to save Icellands and that our company would fail. This result would lead to uncertainty as to whether the key domains of the airline could be used in domestic air traffic. At that time, the State's foundations for this matter were also examined, and they are extremely important. As was true of those who have observed the news, governments have dealt with Icelanda guardians since spring, and they have been in an orderly manner. The matter was the custody of the Ministers on terms of financial affairs, as well as the minister of travel. A Group of four advisers took the case between the Committee of Ministers. The government set out a clear basis for the possibility of the administration of the State: 1st The need for the arrival of the Kingdom in order to ensure a safe and intact flight to and from the land. 2. To ensure that there is an aerospace driver who is actively involved in economic resistance at the time. 3. Long-term competitiveness and competitiveness are guaranteed. 4. That the public funds and risks of the State will be limited to those who serve public interests, but they do not aim to protect the interests of shareholders or creditors. Of course, it is extremely important that this State ever existed. Governments and Illelands have shared their understanding of the major aspects of financial restructuring. There are five major factors: 1st A real business plan and a need for money. 2. A suitable part-of-the-art raise. In May, a stock meeting agreed to increase the share amount of up to 30 billion dollars. 3. Adequate participation, e.g. The debt of frozen funds to reduce the need for income loss during a period of time. The Society has reached contracts with demands. 4. The company's competition will be assured for the future. Society's treaties with unions are now different and treaties with key companies and aircraft manufacturers. 5. A loan line, from the state, or from the State's responsibility to disaster. The government's credit lines would be a problem, to increase the likelihood that the Society will pass through the uncertain times ahead. In this article, you will find a break-in tablet for the next 24 months of the expected funding of the company. I explained earlier that I was later going to establish a state - to - be law, but the committee called for information in addition to what is stated in the bill's reports on the reasons why there is a proposal to disfellowship the law of state responsibility. The subject was discussed in 1st. on the matter, that it was important for the committee to consider why this route had gone, and this made up the committee. State responsibilities laws have not adopted changes in accordance with the changes in the official ownership of enterprises and the changed system of loans and the access to loans. Over the past few years, the law has been extremely poor. Although the law can be very relevant when the state's budget is responsible for normal market conditions, it is not particularly appropriate for specific support in the event of a market failure. It should be noted that when there are other laws - which we have approved here at the General Assembly in connection with government action in the case of the Covid pandemic, such as travel responsibilities and support loans and extra loans or loans - they have been approved, the government laws are not valid nor have they been passed on but have gone elsewhere. But this does not mean that there are no conditions or terms for receiving Kingdom responsibility. On the contrary, they are tailored to this loan. For example, on credit terms there is a budget of 0.25% on the basis of the budget of the budget, and there is an additional use load that is calculated from the appeal status at the end of each month and is rising according to the cost of attraction. This means receiving the Kingdom responsibility, and it requires making use of it. The cost increases as the loan goes on. I'd like to address some of the factors that the committee discussed that matter on this bill. First bet on responsibilities. The committee discussed quite a bit about the value of those responsible for their responsibilities. It has been determined that the state will accept bets on adverse signals, accounting systems, and cases of landing clearances in London and New York City. The desired State responsibilities are intended to meet unexpected problems in the Icelanda business and although there is considerable value on the above decks, their worth has not been expected to stand against State responsibilities directly except in part. The review of The Kingdom Accounting points out that the main issue of opinion is how guarantees for the recovery of Kingdom responsibilities should be performed. It is noted that these assets may not be worth 15 billion. The majority believe that worth of bets is difficult to assess, but they still feel that the name and brand of the company, as well as the accounting system, are significant. Then there are also significant values in landing warrants, and the more part stresses that if a person comes in, he or she will be picked up, because all of them are things that would contribute to the accelerated structure of the aircraft sites in case of a stop stop. A key point was to deal with competitiveness, for this is the matter. In the planned state responsibility of the country, the state's assistance is to the Illellanda Group because of an unscheduled worldwide international flight disturbance. This is so that, as I did at the outset, there can be a protection of destructive flights to the country. In terms of the terms of responsibility, there is a special arrangement for borrowing only if it is permitted to make use of the loans of state responsibility to pay the general cost of operating, related to air management to and from the country. The loan is not allowed to be used for operating funding, or otherwise used, such as a daughter's partner in a controlled loan that does not have a flight to and from Iceland. As mentioned earlier, ESAs have overcrowded their terms of state responsibility and value all rules fulfilled. It does not free governments from the obligation to compete. The greater part of the claim that it is important that, along with a proposed government warrant, the government defends active competition in flight. The main procedure is that the Society restores its own business, the state responsibility is therefore a difficult way. This includes, and this is important at the risk of government funds, not to try the responsibility unless there are circumstances where the issue is going considerably worse than plans are expected, and this will be discussed in more detail in the Committee. The work of the Committee discussed whether the terms of the condition are sufficiently guaranteed for the state responsibility of a loan line to Iclanders Group Corp. that the funds from it do not flow to any other business of the Icellands Group Corp. ... butflying. That the initiative of the Commission has adopted the organization, which has confirmed that it was a common understanding for each member to lend a loan line with the State's responsibility solely to support the airline and not another operation. That's extremely important. Because of this, the terms of the State responsibilities were changed as it is clear that the loan can only be used in the general cost of flying to and from the country and that it is forbidden to use the loan for operating or otherwise, such as to be used for a daughter's partner in a improved loan that is not operating to the country and from the country. The majority consider it important to meet competitiveness, believing that these changes are balanced with the view to restricting the Kingdom responsibility for flying to and from the country. It was a point that many of the members of the Committee called, they wanted Kingdom responsibility to be granted, but they wanted the tribulation here on the terms of the terms. The majority feel that the balance between cost and risk is guaranteed by the way the Icelandic government has chosen in this matter. Ideas are that the state is last in and first out. Thus, the objective of the government, to provide a measure of protection for unscheduled situations, will be more difficult in the next year than is expected by the society's plans, while at the same time minimising the risk to the general population. Finally, the systematic importance of the group is pointed out, where tourism as a whole is based on a flight link at Keflavour Airport, where Illelands have a unique position. Last year, the partner with a 66% market share on the field paid a 4,000 - year salary, so that much more people have been in the job, but not all of them in the full - time service ratio, moved 4.4 million passengers to 44 destinations and also played a key role in the flight plan, both export and import. As an example of the key role of the organization in building tourism, it has contributed to the community, pay, pay, and taxes, some 300 billion dollars. in 2011. I've been explaining the subject of the committee's opinion. The majority suggest that the bills will be accepted unchanged, but as I entered the previous stage, changes in the terms of the loan are made. They are provided as a package printed by the bill, and Icelanda has agreed. I'd like to mention that conditions for the well - being of responsibility are that the Council has approved a warrant for this responsibility, i.e. agreed on the bill we're discussing, that the headquarters in Iceland and that their stocks were registered in Copenhagen. It is forbidden to pay interest, to reduce stocks, or to buy personal items or to do other things that include the provision of funds or assets to shareholders or others. It's all very important. These are the terms for the state responsibility. Under this committee, along with the one quoted above: Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, chairman of the budget board, Haraldur Benediktsson, Páll Magnússon, Njáll Trausti Friiðbertsson, og Birgir Thorrinsson. Valdimarsson Valddorsson, an officer on the committee, agrees with this, but on a short notice I expect him to make an announcement in a speech afterwards, we suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u4	A respectable president. Let's take a couple of questions in this short answer. On the one hand, it's a matter of competition. This morning's committee was taken from a committee that added a section on the opinions and comments of the Contestance Board. After that, I did not receive a copy of the committee opinion, and I do not know what part of it is the addition. However, there is a lack of analysis, as the law on State responsibilities, on the influence of competition and not just on flight but also on bank functions. After all, these are the loans the banks give to Icellands, and the state responsibility is on loans from banks. Clearly, it is better to engage in business with the banks of the state that can provide Kingdom responsibilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u5	Madam President. Yes, we talked about improving the points of the committee that were subject to competitiveness, and that was done. As shown in my case, the greater part is important in meeting competitive issues, thinking that with the changes being made in the terms of the conditions, this is exactly what they are doing. I just have to pray. The senator to repeat the other questions, since I first seized this point of competition and began to look for where they were written in the committee's opinion. However, this was added to the committee opinion, as had been discussed at a meeting of the committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u6	A respectable president. Even though these terms have come into the state's responsibilities, there is more than a magic solution. It's far from there. A competition is by no means guaranteed, despite these limitations in Kingdom responsibilities. It is clear in the opinion of the Contestant Commission that despite their limitations, the public has certain obligations. The other thing I asked was that the state's responsibility is really on loans to banks. The loans the banks pay are entitled to. If Iclanders disappear, money from government funds will go to the banks to make up for their losses from the loan they lend to Ikelanda. In that case, the Kingdom guarantee will come to nothing. A competitive bank market must then be evaluated for the state of responsibilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u7	Mr. President. First, we need to remember the circumstances under which this authority is given to eliminate the laws of state responsibility. This is because the Korean virus epidemic has resulted in complete marketing failure at the time of air transport. Of course, this does not change the fact that when it comes to it, competition is important. But in this special situation, the source is available. It has been observed that ESAs have reviewed the terms of the state responsibility and that all rules are fulfilled. [[Up front.]] A large number of other countries around us are being treated, and ESAs have also accepted the actions of the SAS airline. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u8	Madam President. Icelanders are in trouble. Icelanders is a systematicly important company which thousands of employees and hundreds of companies rely on. The union wants to protect these interests, but also the interests of the public and the competition. We would have chosen to secure better the interest of taxpayers in this 15 billion dollars. U.S. government help. However, it is unmistakably true that the insurance for this loan is not enough. So we would have wanted to take a closer look at the possibility that the state has a so - called transition right, i.e. that under certain circumstances, the State can turn the loan into a piece of money. Another way would be to expand the weather so that it would reach the stocks. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Why is there no part to increase the government's insurance protection and, at the same time, the public when he knows that the guarantees, the pledges that now exist are not enough? I would like to hear the reasons why the greater part was not prepared to take further steps to take better care of the State's interests, but at the same time, we would be looking out for the interests of Icelanda, which, of course, we need to take care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u9	Mr. President. This was discussed quite a bit in the Committee, and the Ministry answered questions about this, as well as giving the committee memos that covered these points. It made it very clear, in my opinion, that this is exactly the way we are going to ensure the best interests of the public. As I said in my speech, the state is the last one to bring in money if necessary, but it's the first thing that goes out. It is quite known that the weather is difficult to assess. However, they are possessions that are not mortgaged, and they are of enormous importance if, at any point, it is necessary to try, which I really hope will not be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u10	Madam President. I don't make a comment to the rule that the state should come in last and go out first. I ask, however, why isn't the government willing to expand their insurance protection on this big loan? That's 15 billion. This is more than all the child damages the country can get. However, I would like to ask, in my later answer: Why are the government groups not prepared to condition the welfare of the government in a way that the future owners or local owners of Icelands should not be the source of their roots in the tax industry? We also talked about it, and we could have added it to our terms, just as the terms of the divorce are that Ingelanda headquarters is supposed to be in Iceland. It would have been a slow move, would have been a political wish, to add conditions that may include. ASI called on, that it should be undisputed that the owners of Icelanda could not base their roots on tax panels while using government services.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u11	Madam President. Icelands is an open - market stock registered in Copenhagen. I think it's very important to provide transparency. I agree with what. A senator in that, of course, his business is to pay his taxes and duties to society, and I am a fighter, as it were. A senator with regard to the best paying of public interest. But I believe that we need to do it in ways other than by terms of state responsibility to Icellands in this particular case. This is a huge case that needs to be worked on worldwide, not by such terms to a company in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u12	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, a leading guide to the greater part. More part of the committee's list says that borrowing is only allowed to use loans with a state responsibility to account for the general cost of operating related to air management to and from the country. It's pretty cool, of course, but how on earth are you going to keep an eye on this? Who's supposed to have the nose in this? A government accountant? How on earth are we going to make sure this works? We witnessed here at the council how a welfare committee was ignored and could be dealt with. How in the hell are you gonna make sure that you keep an eye on this? It's just a business in town. Will there be a state worker with the books? How the hell are you gonna make sure this works?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u13	Mr. President. First, of course, you demand that people live by what they sign. Icelanders have agreed to the terms set here. The loan of the company is not being forced. They agree to receive the loan on these terms. The creditors must be watching from their side that the terms of the terms are fulfilled. It is our hope, of course, that this will never be tested, and the loan will never come. In that case, as appropriate, Kingdom Accounting and other institutions will have to observe it, and time will come. It is important to remember that the main idea is, of course, that this will never need to be borrowed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. If you don't have to take that loan, you'll never have to. But if they take the loan, if it's time to borrow, why not just use the same methods as in the collapse when the banks took over their homes? Let them take over the banks, Iceland Bank and Bank of Lands, the Bank of State, the airlines. Why is it not within the picture that as soon as this loanline is activated, the cell is taken over? Then it's become a worthless society anyway. No more should there be a problem than taking people's homes off. The banks would be great then. They could really start off on a plane, get a whole airline. They would fly into a financial market and would probably be very sought after if they were to be privatized.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u15	Mr. President. I'd like to go over this for a minute. As I said, I hope I never try to borrow this. But it's gonna cost the club a fortune to draw the loan lines. This adds to the cost of making use of the loan. With regard to the banks, they are in the bank, not on a plane, and of course they have a guarantee of what they lend. I'd think they'd be pretty loyal because they don't just loan. And about that, there's another document in the company's terms to the banks. In fact, this bill does not follow-up, but the terms can be developed on the finance Department's web to further examine how the bank account works.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u16	A respectable president. We cannot doubt how important it is for us to have safe transportation to and from our country. Thank you. paritaprevir For the consideration of the committee and the story, Þóra Árnadóttir She mentioned that this is based on mutual understanding and such things, and I simply wanted to ask her: "How far is mutual understanding and good will against current rights? If there was a time to test the mutual understanding of the courts, how deep is it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u17	Madam President. This is based on terms. A signed language is printed using the committee's opinion that was changed after the arrival of a legal committee that sets the requirements for this Kingdom responsibility if it does. There is no mutual understanding that is behind it. Rather, it is the terms of both sides, the state as a potential lender, and the association as a possible loan have agreed on, i.e. The rules that apply if it comes to granting Kingdom responsibility. It is very important that they follow along with the committee's opinion so that all can learn of the great demands that are made if they apply the Kingdom responsibilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I was just referring to her own words earlier, but she spoke in her introduction about the importance of a mutual understanding. Then let us just move on to the above - mentioned opinion. How deep is the opinion of the committee if the conditions under which it is being presented are tested? Well, maybe. A senator showed me that these conditions are somehow in law?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u19	Madam President. These are just conditions that have been signed and displayed so that they are of course valid. They are printed in the committee's opinion so that members and the general public and those who want to study the matter can understand the conditions set. This is so that no one needs to question whether a borrower will be able to make money if he or she comes to a position of national responsibility, that the company's headquarters will have to be in Iceland if it is necessary to take advantage of their Kingdom responsibilities. In addition, as I discussed earlier, the General Assembly must, in order that by means of the responsibilities, the warrant must be accepted. And here are the terms for how it should be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u20	Madam President. Few people question the value of Icelanda for transportation to and from the country. It also involves a systematic importance for the Icelandic economy, as defined by this definition. Icelanders have, in fact, been a lifestyle for European transport, regardless of their ability to transport or freight. The company has a lot of human resources and experience, along with being the workplace of thousands of Icelanders and clients of many other Icelandic companies. Thus, the financial failure of that company would be expensive to the Icelandic interests. We need to recognize this. While most people want to ensure the future of Iccelanders, we need to consider certain points, in the opinion of the United States and others, in fact. It has been hard to say that the mortgage on government insurance is not enough. Public review has included: Pointed to it in his review. A government review is an institution under the General Assembly, not the Commission, the Ministers. This is a high figure of 15 billion, and to put this figure in context, this is bigger than the sum of all the country's child damages. This is also a larger amount than what this government puts in housing for all the people of the country. She's almost half the cost of all the colleges in Iceland. That's a big amount, we need to keep that in mind. That's why it's important to make bets, of course. You're borrowing and getting a bet across the street. That's insurance. It is unmistakably true that insurance does not work. They won't do. The Ministry said this at a meeting of the budget committee. ASI, the National Association of Iceland, also pointed to this. It says in its review, with the permission of a president: The government and the Allied Council are obliged to protect the interests of the State fully on a secure level or to become part of the union. Uncertainty is whether this condition is met, as can be seen in the review of Kingdom Accounts, which says that insurance is unlikely to be able to study the 15 billion loans. It also says in its review: ▪ Another possibility in the situation would be that a government fund would become a share if responsibility was taken or would simply take over with the intention of eventually finding potential owners. Therefore, in the United States, we believe that it has not been fully developed whether these loan lines could have been increased by the State Accounting. If the loan didn't land, and the loan didn't cover it -- the document would include the bets, the booking system and maybe two landing floors - we'd like to take a closer look and see if we shouldn't expand the insurance so that the bet would reach the partner's share money, whether it's the current partner's share money or part of the cash after the sale. Of course, the State can increase the terms of government insurance loans with increasing pledges, and then the shareholders decide whether to accept such conditions, if this is done on the basis of the government's cooperation. We have terms that we're on the committee. To change when it comes to the competition, I'm only coming in after it. It could have been added to the cover layer so that it would involve not only the brand, the accounting system, and the two landing rat but also the stock. This is one of the ways we should have considered better than we have had, as everyone knows in this room, a few days to cover a big case during the entire summer of the Ministry. The Ministry expects us to stamp more and less from them very little. This is one way, quite one Mass worth looking at. We want to protect the interests of Icellands, we want to stay alive in Icellands because doing nothing is expensive. But we also need to be careful about the interests of the public and the taxpayers and staff. I'm not thinking about stockholders' interests. The system assumes, loses, capitalism assumes if it goes badly. But what I'm thinking is public interest from losing this company in bankruptcy. We have a definition of what's systematicly important. It's not just any company. WOW air was e.g. not systematically important. It's the size that matters here and the Icelanda responsible for, at least During a certain period of time, about 70% of all transport to and from the country meets this requirement, whether people like it or not. Another way outside the mortgage would be to secure the State's right to change. What is it? Then we'll make sure the government has the right to turn the loan into cash. This means that it is premiumed with the approval of the shareholders meeting and with the related changes to an approved social group, that the company is taking loans with the terms that the loans can be borrowed from the stocks to the demands. This is called a right to change. It is often one side, and it is often one side of the lender, from the government. In such cases, the State would have the option to change its demand, 15 billion, into part money if required by the society's financial standing. It could be if the reason is for the worse or for the good, I'm coming back into it. Thus, an angle is a course of caution. I'm just thinking about how we're more responsible for the interests of taxpayers and the public. At my committee party, I just review what this right of change is. I would have liked to have been more concerned with whether this was possible. Suppose the plans of Icelands are not going to work out that no one hopes, and they are going to get divorced with the federal guarantee loan. In that case, it may be possible for the State to change its debt, its requirement, to make money. Then the State has become one of the owners of the Icelanda society, and as a owner, we can say something about further rescues and possible restorations. Of course, no one hopes to do so. But this is a precaution. It can be in the interests of the Icelanders that the state can come in, if things go wrong, who have the right to participate in the possible restoration of this society. That's what I'm talking about. (b) What will help us to be effective in the work of Kingdom interests? This may also be justified in view of the fact that taxpayers are extending a helping hand in the form of a Kingdom responsibility. Not necessarily, not giving the Illelands a guarantee of government money. One must make it a well - thought - out subject, natural one. We often hear the story, much more than foam, saying that we always take advantage of our losses and personal profits. Too often, though, it is because we are a nation or a nation's loss but our personal gain. This is yet another reason why we look at the way a little better, to secure the State's right to change as a condition for the loan. But most of the parts are out of trust, and they want things to go the same way, which means that this case is his responsibility. It is interesting that many European countries are involved in airlines or have established the standard for their assistance that the State will share with its members, although only temporarily. If the State is involved in Icelanda, I'm not saying that the State should have that long, certainly not. But it is interesting to see that the Swedish and Danish state now resides in the SAS, the Finnish State in Finders, the Dutch State of KLM, the French State of Air France, New Zealand, and the German State, Mrs. Merkel, have acquired a share in Lufthansa together with the government's aid. This is interesting. It's not something to talk about. I'm trying to get something out of the interests of the public and society and the economy. These may be the two major elements I would like to highlight in the government's poor insurance protection. We make it very important to note that the advanced loan lines involve only international flight failures but not other aspects of the kit. It is a pleasure to find an agreement in the Committee that this would be added to the terms. We have nothing to do with Icellands running a hotel or a travel agency. What we're trying to focus on is the flight between countries, and most of them are heard from this platform, and there's no misunderstanding. Here, we need to be careful about the competition. An interesting review of this matter was given by the U.S. Governing Body, which pointed out that we needed to restrict our government support to the flight, but it wasn't in the original document, at least not according to the words. All members of Congress agree to change this. Since I'm referring to the Contestant Board, it is also interesting that along with this state responsibility, the potential competition of this market needs to be considered. Play is in the starting room, and of course we want to compete on this market. In general, consumers profit from competition. We do not want assistance with the Icellands to have the sad consequences of killing in the early delivery of competition at the airport. I think there's some cool stuff in my opinion that we should at least do. to consider and attack in parallel with this government aid to Icelanda. It's a couple of steps, and I'd like to flaunt these Contestant ideas. Madam President. I think we should also have increased the requirements for the government. I'm not trying to stop you from helping, but we can do this a little bit better. There's something else I'd like to draw out in particular. We already have many conditions. I find it reprehensible that the managers of Illelands have the option to pay themselves super-employment or offers during the state aid. Sports scare them out of fear. We have seen an Icelandic career quickly resort to super-employment, with the opportunity to do so. I'm not saying Icelands will do it. But why not add that as long as there is support for the Kingdom, it is not an option? Similarly, in Europe, we have seen that some governments have set out conditions for government assistance to companies that enjoy it take big measurable green steps. That's what matters. We are at a juncture in climate affairs, and businesses, big companies, have to take tangible steps in climate. It is a unique opportunity for us, as long as they want to be in government assistance, to increase the conditions and demands of such companies for taking green steps. I'd also like to draw out what I said earlier on the tax industry. That's what matters. How is it that the government was not prepared to add to the terms that it is undisputed that Icelanda owners, whether they are present or future owners after the sale, must not be rooted in taxes? That's what matters. Remember the Panama Documents: The Icelanders represented most of them according to the appeal number. And do you remember what was in the Panamas? This was one law firm in one country, but these were hundreds of cases. So it's not some random thing. That's what matters. Of course, companies who come to our government, or who benefit from it in one way or another, do not have owners registered in tax documents. But this was impossible, even though I had repeatedly spoken about it on the scene of the committee. One of the conditions here is that the motherhood headquarters will be in Iceland. All right. Why not add that there is no way to believe that this company has its ownership in taxes? I know that surveillance is hard, and so on, I know that if you want to break the rules, they can do it a lot. But it would be a political declaration that matters. ASI called for this in its review. Finally, Madam President, since we're talking about Icelanda, I'd like to condemn the behavior shown by the officers of Iclandians in their recent hostilities. I haven't seen anything like that in a long time. I think most people would agree that the Iccelandians were going way too far, showing the rhythm of the feast talk we don't want to see. It is important that such behavior is not seen again in an Icelandic labour market dispute. It has to be crystal clear that companies who are going to work here, let alone companies who want government assistance, have to respect their agreements, Icelandic rules and traditions - notice, tradition - in Icelandic labour markets. Of course, this is an unwieldy requirement. Madam President. Interestingly, this is not a government law. We have a special law on government responsibilities, and they are turned aside. If we had applied to them, the work might have been in other ways; it would have been more detailed if we had applied to that law. Then the State Accountable Fund would have gone to a much greater diagnostic work than was offered here, as assessed by a payable debtor, because of the risk of responsibility. It offers assurances that will be provided on the basis of responsibility and will be evaluated for the influence of Kingdom responsibilities on competition. None of this was done in such a way even if something was done in that regard. It's odd that we haven't used that law. To say, Madam President, I would like to draw out that Icelanda takes the flight. I hope we can secure the work here and the activities of this important society. What matters most to me as a politician is that we are able to ensure normal and vigorous transportation to the outside world. Whether we are looking for transport or freight transport, we need to do so. It's important that things are right here. The union will not violate this case, but it is clear that it is the responsibility of the government. We're late and we're in a bad situation, and the government groups are responsible for 100%. We have not had the time we wanted, nor have we had the members of the Governing Body. It was more and less at the Ministry. I'd like to draw out that there's no need for the Ministry of finance to act like this in these Covid cases at all times. This is a Covid thing. Why isn't the Senate allowed to do this sooner? I see that the council members are often as surprised as I am, and they have to bear the weight and heat of this. They need to answer our criticism. Wherever we are in the hall, we could join to pressure the Ministry of Economics, which is directed by the chairman of the Independence Party, to allow others to do this sooner. The situation is generally improved by this, whether by stake or by public or by other political groups. 47% of the Icelanders didn't choose the government. We have a democratic commission, even though we are in a position of government to handle matters, and especially in times such as this, where there is an emergency in an Icelandic labour market, where there is a crisis. We can do much better together. Last night I gave a talk about financialism. We're a small society with all the power to get up out of this crisis, but let's start working together a little bit better. But the ball's with the counsellors. I urge my colleagues, private council members, to stand with us. I know that many people have spent years in a position of government and know exactly what it feels like to be on the other side of the table. I encourage them to join us in the coming Covid business or operation and let us do this sooner. The situation will improve, and they will become even more at peace. But I've already said this, and we've already told this about the fact that Covid came to the country, and little that has happened to us. Meanwhile, the Chairman of the Independence Party has everything he wants to have with him, and that makes me feel bad. It's not the best thing for Icelanders to do in the way that has been done here, if I speak quite frankly. We can do better than that, and we can get this cooperation to a lot better. It matters. This case is one of those who show it well, a big case that touches one of the largest and most important companies in the country. We're doing it in less than a week. That's what everybody wants, Madam President, isn't a good practice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u21	President. Thank you. A senator has a fine review of the committee opinion and would like to ask him about certain aspects of the opinion that I simply don't understand. I don't fully understand how it is reasonable for point 1 of the Committee to implement, which says, by permission of the president: ▪ At the top of my memory, it seems that if the loan failed and committed bets could not have been added to the loan line, it would be a bet, for example. Also include the partner's stock, whether it is the current part of the company or the part of the money that will be present after the discharge. How can it be a good idea if, first of all, the club is so bad that it draws on the line, which they will avoid in the longest of the songs to do, and secondly, so badly that they cannot pay off the loan with all the bets that are here, or whatever people want to put in there, is the right time for the Icelandic taxpayers to become involved in almost bankrupt companies? How can that be a good idea? Because what is suggested is in the circumstances I know that I am. A senator so earnestly hopes that he will not come up and have no faith in the arrival of the Icelandic State, is not a shareholder and at the end of the order - for such an enterprise has a wide range of demands - it is an Icelandic claimholder and will be in line. I don't understand just my limited understanding how this could possibly be a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u22	Yeah, let me explain. In order to improve loan insurance, stock can be mortgaged. It can be done. (b) What questions remain to be answered? Transitional rights may be selective on the part of the State. It's number two. I speak as if the State has the right to change its claim into stock if it serves the interests of the State. It is the right of caution that the State should have the right to use, but it does not have a day. Third, if the company is in a bad position, it may be better to get stock instead of getting nothing. If they fail with the 15 billion, which I hope they don't do, that says itself, it may be better to get stock in a partner that may need to be restored instead of getting nothing. Because then we'll get stock in the company, and if it goes bankrupt, it'll be lost, but it was lost anyway. [[The president calls.]] I reiterate that Icelands is part-part company, and if you agree, it's a very limited responsibility. The wealth is not responsible for Icelanda's debt. [[The president calls.]] I know the Senator wasn't asking, but it's important that it be handled. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I want to raise the government's insurance protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u23	Madam President. That doesn't make any difference, though. A senator reported that he was going to explain this thoroughly. I have to disagree with him about it. I don't understand how practical this could be. In fact, it says that the loan on default will reach the bet, for example. The amount of money. I read it from a committee party or something. A senator earlier. And again it says that if the company is so strong that they can't pay off on this loan line, we're likely to be back in financial policy. The time for financial review is when most things need to be reviewed. But they want a what? A senator that we make a bet on almost bankrupt companies - the excuse: share in almost bankrupt companies, instead of having the bets this is due. A new airline could be built almost on the ground with the brands, property, landing platforms, and other information underneath, but not to be the shareholder of a bankrupt company.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u24	Madam President. I don't know if I've misunderstood the senator, whether he misunderstood a pledge or how it is. You don't get caught until you get divorced. You're borrowing on a bet, and it's clear that the bet isn't good enough. I'd like to raise the bet, or I'd like at least... view it, so if a business gets into trouble, the state has the right to get a partner instead of having a missing claim. Otherwise, what will the government do if Icellands fail to borrow this loan? Will it require bankruptcy on these companies? It's the only way. But we'll also see that if this route doesn't go by then a company that often gets in trouble with the creditors in such a way that demand is turned into a partner. It is well - known in bankruptcy that creditors will negotiate with their creditors if everything goes wrong about getting cash instead of the debt. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] These aren't new truths, and I'm amazed. A senator to study only the rights of a pledge. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u25	A respectable president. Maybe I'm going to cut the same knee as the one in answer to the previous one. Hv. In his long history, a senator discussed the lack of bets in this group and believes that the State is to become a shareholder, to be part of this company, against the state responsibility being given, and to consider it to serve the interests of the State. In fact, I strongly doubt that it serves the interests of the economy, the competitive environment, and the general taxpayers. It'd be interesting to know if there's a problem. A senator wondered about that. But I'd like to point them out, too. A senator says that it is not as if the State is not taking part in this group. Work loans are expected from the two state banks up to 6 billion dollars. And besides, the same bank is going to stake stock markets to 6 billion as well, if I remember correctly, and thereby own a share for the state. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator would have wondered if he had been able to find out what the State had to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u26	Madam President. Yes, it's very interesting what the senator says. I'm just getting a little closer with the taxpayers' interests. I'm really trying to make the taxpayer's interests better if, on the other hand, it's going to go wrong, which, of course, I hope not to be. I'm trying to improve insurance protection against the taxpayers I know about. A senator is concerned. I agree with that. We'll see who's about to rebuild this society. It's the pension fund that takes the taxpayers' money and the public's money. It's the bank we have, and now it's the government aid. We have also been doing some sort of subsidies, as well as the information route that Icelanda has been making use of. The tax money's all around. That's exactly right. Why not think that the taxpayers could get something for this assistance other than securing the operation? I'm not gonna belittle it, it's important. But why can't we travel to the right and to the left, increasing the public's insurance protection if things go the worst way we hope they won't, and hopefully they won't try. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u27	A respectable president. I'm concerned that the interests of taxpayers are placed in the table by the very decision to sell the invitation, and just by the decision to provide a staff loan line from the two state banks of all these billions before the national responsibilities. The state responsibility is from my point of view, as I have studied the matter, a complete addition to the government's access to the airline. It's surprising that the Conspiracy, and hence, the co-ordinates. A senator, has not entered any analysis of what she feels is so important to identify, i.e. the interests of taxpayers and the state in this regard. But in the course of history, there was a sharp decline. Not only did a senator comment on the great interests that have been placed in the arms of taxpayers, through the two bank accounts, with the insurance policy. I'd like to ask who, too. A senator, because he mentioned that the Society is systematically important because it is so large, is Icelands so large today? Is it that big today? Don't you think it's a pleasure to knock down trips? How big is the company's motive and how much decision should it be to assist them while the country is closed, while the government itself has pulled the foot off from the business of this company? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u28	Madam President. Hv. A senator says the Conspiracy is to analyze the matter. I don't know. A senator says there's a pack of dogs. A senator who brings this bill in here. It's the Independence Party that's going to take the stock of the state banks. It is the Independence Party that appears to all this assistance. A senator is indirectly critical. [[Up front.]] Where are your diagnostics? This is your outfit. The party isn't in the government. We had four days to analyze this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u29	What do you think?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u30	We want to help Iccelands because we feel it is more costly to let it fall. Sounds like it's coming. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen won't support the case if I understand her case properly. We want to assist the Icelanda in a way that ensures that function. Why, though, are we not able to travel on extra insurance protection? Why is that so strong? I don't understand. But I think that's what. A senator should certainly record it at a council meeting how this is handled. I felt critical. The senator's main focus is on her own party president, the lack of diagnostics and possibly overhauling the state in all these measures that her party is always showing off. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u31	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen assume that when four members of the council respond to an answer, only 1 is mine. ... eachtimeforit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur, Ágústsson's background. I'd like to come on a point that's a 7th in a minority list. Senator. It says: ▪ Finally, the 1st smaller things feel that a more convenient thing would have been done if it had been used in a state of responsibility in this case, where the Statety Fund had reviewed matters from start to end. On page 18. 5 The greater part of the committee is discussed in detail on this particular point and the reason why there is a suggestion to disfellowship the law's law on State responsibilities as a whole. It says, by permission of the president: However, the laws of the law are not well designed for special support in the case of massive marketing failure, as is currently available in the air market... Go on says: ▪... they would fail to achieve their aims. - The ones here are being moved into law. And go ahead, with President's permission, I'm about to finish: [[The president calls.]] The tents, calculated on the basis of the law, would simply put their business to full effect. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: He believes that the views of the majority of the committee are not justified and why. A senator with such emphasis on no. 7? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u33	Madam President. I think it would be better to make use of the laws on state responsibility. It includes the State Accountable Fund. ... assigneda role that in my opinion is not sufficiently cared for. I only came to see that the State Accounting Act, which is removed here, had been better evaluated by a credit agent than here. The influence of Kingdom responsibilities on competition would have been evaluated in that area. It's not done. Third, the State Accountable Fund, as per federal responsibilities, would have evaluated the guarantees made on the basis of responsibility. I've been talking a little bit about today that they don't have one. This diagnostic work is missing, but it would have been done if we had applied the law. It's just a big case, and I think we need to be on a much stronger and better foundation than this. The analysis work was at least I didn't discuss much at the branch office, but I had five days to discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u34	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. True, all the diagnostic work of the materials is good, and we have a responsibility to be careful with the financial resources of the State. But count 'em why. A senator's real chances that this analysis work would have been done in a more thorough and deeper way and with more insight from this committee than where it has been done now, I'll let me say, all over town and abroad, on the basis of the current stock collection? Counts 'em out. A senator that there is a real position in the matter? Hv. In his speech, a senator stated that for a picture in connection with the fifth century C.E., it would be indiscriminate that the views of the 1st and so forth were taken into account. I felt as if I were shining through a talk. The senator said that the Conspiracy was opposed to the Society but was putting it in the suit of a good conscience to sit outside the vote. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Because in the speech of which. The senator was all of this half impossible and irreprehensible to watch.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u35	Madam President. No, I think I will. A senator is mistaken for some of the Conspiracy's views. We've spoken of a much better way to help an SME. We've talked about the need to be mild - tempered toward the business. We're not shy about it. We want Illelands to grow up and take off the plane again. Even if we ask questions, we cannot be painted as some of those opposers. It's just normal. With regard to the State Accountable Fund, there are not many fish that we were offered to the budget. I think it would have been much bigger if we had followed the laws of state responsibility. It wouldn't have been a good time. As noted, we can see, for example. that in the bill, this was not limited to the flight control. We had to change it to the Committee. The competition had not been evaluated. Play showed us. Similarly, the U.S. Governing Body did. These are things the Statety Fund would have done according to that law. [[The president calls.]] It turns out that they should have appreciated the competition. [[The president calls.]] It wasn't done well enough, I say, at least not by those who work in this market.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u36	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. He mentioned a number of points that we discussed at the committee scene. Hv. One senator says that it is not his intention or his party to prevent the help and believe that it is a huge investment in Icelandic interests. Of course, it is always very important in matters such as these and other similar matters to consider the risks of such fermentation and to limit it to the public and to the state's funds. I'd like to ask about the idea of taking stock money, and then it's only the stockholders to decide if they'd accept it, as I understood why. A senator. I ask: What effect does it make? A senator that planned the company's stock tenders?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u37	Mr. President. Going betch, i.e. To increase the weather, it's one of the ways I would have wanted to take a closer look. The correction is another way. Both of these ways depend on increasing public insurance protection. That's what I'm thinking. I really don't take a stand on which path is better. I think we should have discussed this further and considered whether we could have added insurance protection to the public. Of course, a meeting of shareholders, who is the highest authority in a community, has to decide whether to accept a Kingdom help that is more severe than ever. We're changing our terms by limiting this to air traffic. I'm not gonna force federal aid to Icelland if that society doesn't want it. But this is something I would have wanted to have talked to you about. I reiterate that Government Accounting says what I'm saying here. You can't say that this is about the United States or a government opposition. Our objective, our neutral agency, says, "The weather isn't enough. [[The president calls.]] Why don't you think of other routes, such as mortgageing the stock or creating a right to change the state?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u38	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answer, but I thought it was a problem. However, a senator does not answer my question directly regarding the effects on the expected stock tenders. When we talk about limiting risks, it's on the way, and here's the best way to go. I think it's forgotten, both in speech. A senator and then reflected in this answer, but it is the key goal that the company simply saves itself and this responsibility is a real problem, that investors come to the company, and they don't try this responsibility. There's a request, last in, first out. This involves caution and the limitation of the risk. So I can't see that ideas like this can help anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u39	A respectable president. I'm going to start by trying to be as clear as I can be in this case, which is pretty elaborate and complicated. It involves a wide variety of complex activities, opening markets, banks, and State responsibilities. Icelanders do not need state responsibility. It is the demanding crew who want state responsibility. Two very different things. The Iclandians presented their case to representatives of the classes and budgets at the Harpa Wednesday before the conference but I have to say that it was one of the worst presentations, not out of the plan as such, the plan looked very good, but it was just not for us, it was for investors. We're not investors. We're taking care of the public money and the interests of the government. It is large, indeed, reaching safe and safe passage to and from Iceland. There is something that we can agree that is essential for an island in the far north of the Atlantic Ocean. Flight transport is one of the main connections we have with the outside world, except for digital connections. Flights to and from the country have also been very important for tourism in Iceland. Although tourism may have grown pretty fast in recent years, its positive effect on the economy throughout the country is many, and the government certainly comes in. Of course, not everything's great there. Increase in natural disturbance is a problem that has been difficult to deal with, and it can be said that increased travel speed has been too slow. However, the case we deal with here regarding an established business in Icelandic society, since if Icellands is damaged, it has a very large impact, especially because there are depositors and bank bills, even banks on state property, large shares in Icelands. If the bank loses, then the state loses, too. In this way, the state's responsibility for borrowing Iclands through the banks is completely independent of the decision made by the Generals. If Icceland's plans fail, the state will lose either because banks lose the loan to Icellands or the state loses the State's responsibility to banks, which affects the balance of government funds. The risks to the State are the same whether it is through loans or through financial funds. The difference may be that banks are not the same as government funds. The banks have rules on loans, just as government funds have state responsibilities laws. What seems to be happening here is that the government fund wants to compromise its rules of state responsibility, but the banks don't keep their rules of loans. In other words, the competitive view of the bank should apply to the bank as well - I try to say this clearly: The banks get the state responsibility. If the loan gets lost that the banks give to Icellands it pays 90% of that loan to banks. True, Iclanders received the funding, but banks are improved if they fail. A loss for the bank is a loss for state funds. The importance of the company of Icellands in the Icelandic economy is undisputed. In part, this may be the problem, for Icelandi is a systematicly important company that provides systematicly important services, as was said at 1st. this case. The problem we have is that although our service is important to us as a community, we should avoid assuming that certain companies play a systematic role in society simply because it can mean monopoly. The Senate hearing was interesting, a short period of time. An announcement of the state responsibility to Icellands was issued on August 18, 2000. Just over two weeks later at the General Assembly to decide whether or not State responsibilities should be granted, whether companies on the open market should be guaranteed by public funds. On August 28, the case was referred to the legal committee, and now, a week later, it has come to the 2nd issue. to the Hall of Congress. A week in the Committee's discussion of 15 billion U.S. State responsibility for a community society of government banks in a highly complex business. Of course, on Wednesday 26, August 26, a financial committee was introduced by the executives of the Icelanda Group, the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, and Deloitte, the Ministry's Special Agent. This presentation raised a lot of questions asked to the Ministry as soon as the case was introduced into the church treatment. Many questions were not answered until the day before yesterday, e.g. any other route had been considered, and what were the key advantages and defects of rejection? The benefits that were considered were that Icellands would remain in the current form of a state - of - duty arrangement, as suggested here, or that the government should extend their approach by means of a share or direct loan. At the meeting, it was said that this method was issued very early in the process, where some marketing route was to be tried. And it was reasoned that if Iclands were to fail, the government would support the plans of a private member with appropriate experience and rights to initiate a new airline or that governments themselves set up a new airline, or that the government would not adopt and new members would see to ensure future flight transport. In general, I ask, " Why does 15 billion require Kingdom responsibility? ' Especially when it was discussed in the Committee that the state of responsibility for flight to and from the country would have to be limited because the analysis as the Icelanda programme covered the whole of the Group, and obviously it does not require as much Kingdom responsibility for part of the operation as for all Icelanda Group activities. Even so, there is no adjustment in this scope, 15 billion aspects of the Kingdom responsibility. When I was considering the matter earlier, I wondered that it might be most reasonable for the government to pay simply the difference between market growth and Kingdom growth in the form of state responsibility. It would likely be much less than 15 billion in the past. If a company looks for loans from banks at market prices, considering the circumstances in which it is, it borrows at a lot of interest under the circumstances, but the government loans are on a much lower interest rate. The difference between the Kingdom's interest rates and the market may offer is, in fact, borrowing the government. I wondered, " Why isn't it really paying just that part, which is probably much lower than 90% of the 15 billion? ' A smaller section would like to state that it is impossible to complain about the committee's case in any way other than that a short period of time was given to the hearing. The chairman of the budget committees and other committees made an effort to call out for information on the subject. The financial and economic personnel also endeavored to answer their specific questions. Although the answers have not always been as good as expectations, the questions are also far from easy. The answers to complex questions may have been too late for our taste, but they were mostly received. The work of officials showed that they had exerted themselves to find the best possible conclusion, according to their view. In my opinion, as I work out other terms of public interest and such, I say again: Icelands don't need state responsibility. The top concern was that the state responsibility reached the Icelanda business outside of international air traffic. The answers to that were found in ESAs and Contestants, which were reflected in the motions of more of the legal committee on a change in the subject. It makes it clear that the Kingdom guarantee reaches only the air traffic to and from the land. Commentors pointed out how intertwined companies in the Icelanda Groups are. Icelanders Cargo transport most of their products by passenger flight. The different companies use fair points between themselves as an internal currency and the opportunities for cover-up and money transfer are many, which can affect the competitiveness of individual enterprises. There is no room for analysis of the influence of Kingdom responsibilities on the competitiveness of Icelanda, as is expected to work under the law on State responsibilities. There is also a lack of a competitive position in a bank market because of the state responsibility the bank really receives in this loan. That part of the matter is a capitalite, i.e. State-respecting law. The government's proposal is that the State Accounts Act will be replaced and not valid for the state responsibility of the Iclands. The purpose of a law on State responsibilities is to protect the state's funds for loss of government responsibility by requiring analysis of the impact on competition, risk and insurance, and so forth. This information needs to be presented to members and nations as evidence of or against State responsibilities. But when the Ministry of Economics is asked why they didn't insist on state responsibilities, the answer was simple, there would be no state responsibility, which is a remarkable answer. Even so, there are aspects of the State responsibility that can be found in the laws on Kingdom responsibilities. Thus, the government gets a diagnostic agency to win the opinion that the Statety Fund should, in equal measure, create. There are certain responsibilities when a government agency performs diagnostics and gives information to the council. It is not the same as coming from an analysis company in a town, which clearly states in the identification company's memo that the company does not accept responsibility for conclusions or decisions made on the basis of the memo. Of course, it is the responsibility of a minister after all. But the duty, and really the information duty on the state, is exactly different from that of a city analysis firm. We've decided to trust information that agencies have given us. Other smaller items have no reason to question the results of the memo. The opinion of the analystic firm looks good. It's professional. The power of such a memo, however, is not the same for me as an elected representative as when it comes from a government agency. A government agency has certain responsibilities and responsibilities toward Congress and nation. So the second small part cannot see for any reason other than that the State responsibilities law was pushed aside because the decision of the Statety Fund had never been positive regarding the granting of Kingdom responsibilities. The terms of Kingdom responsibilities are also so that the person receiving Kingdom responsibility must pay the full price of responsibility. Such responsibility would likely be too expensive. It's hard to appreciate, it's a complicated environment. The opinion of the Contestant Guard was very important in the processing of this case. This was made clear in its review, with the permission of a president: ... that Iceland Express activities, and later WOWair, greatly promoted competition in air transports to and from the country that led to, even. to increase prices, increase destinations, and demand. This competition by rivals who used flights to and from Iceland using the Keflavour Airport as home airport led to a great deal of benefit for the public and companies and created the basis for growth in Icelandic tourism. By taking the State responsibilities of Icelandi, we are taking steps away from this profit, toward worse service and higher costs, as noted in the Summit's review of the matter in the financial committee. It showed that the state's responsibility can eventually lead to consumers in the form of worse service and more pay. The cost of Kingdom responsibilities is not taken into account. The conference watch also pointed out that ESAs cannot conditions for their State responsibilities because, by permission of presidents: ... plans for a state of aid for Icellands based on b-party 2 mg. Sixty-one. The EEA Convention, which allows governments to repair damage as a particular enterprise, in this case, Iclands, is subject to unusual incidents. Without having to meet the national responsibilities of the EEA Convention. However, it does not solve the government, as the Contestant puts it, by permission of a president: ▪... from the responsibility of reducing the harmful effects of the local government support and securing effective flying competition, flying - related services, and other travel services in which Icelanddas operate. To some extent, this is guaranteed in government plans. It is not enough to set the terms of state responsibility just to fly to and out of the country. That doesn't answer the Contestant tip. Besides, I have the indication about the banks that are also influenced by the competition, for with this, it is clearly better to be in business with the state bank, which makes it easy to talk to its owner and to provide state responsibility. Other banks may not have such a easy way to do the job. The SEC shows that there is a difference between flying to Iceland and Iceland. Great interest in the Icelandic economy is that active competition is a major competition, for many examples illustrate its positive effects for Icelandic consumers. Then there is the question of state responsibility in general. As I said, it doesn't take the state responsibility for Icellands, it's up to the plan. It's the demanding crew who want the State, not Icelanda. The demandsmen. Recently, many measures taken by the government have been customized for Icelanda. It's from where I look, as an elected agent, not as an investor. There are no investors in this chair, it's elected representatives of the public. The recent government's activities have been the part - help route, the way of reporting, extending the state responsibility for a package trip, making it possible that Icelanda's books will look a little better for a little more time. And then now, allowing the pension funds to invest in deduction letters. It is customized for the stock markets of Illelands. Above all, it is the State guarantee of a government loan to Icellands. These are the reasons why I say no to give the state responsibility to the bank and Iclands. And also because Iclanders do not need Kingdom responsibility. The plan Icelands presents looks good. In fact, she looks so good that there should not be a need for a state of responsibility. The banks, on the other hand, demand State responsibilities. It's so strange that after all, their losses are the loss of the owner, the loss of the state. Also interesting is the invention of the company's plans because it is actually so good that it is not expected to be used for the State's responsibilities. That's very interesting. You see, the government's loan is so bad. It is expensive and has a priority for cash if things go to one end. Nobody should want to use it unless everything's going to be a mess. Where are we, then, if things go shite anyway? Then there is a company demand. Is the Kingdom to be said by the demands: " No, no, no, listen, now it can go, and we want all our money back? Of course not! Then plan B, and it can be concluded that the government is a member of Plan B, because otherwise the government would not be a member of plan A. But plan A is for the banks, not for Icellands, after all, and it comes to the realization that the newest plans of the company are not expected to compete from the country. It's remarkable. It makes the presence of the State rather strange, since one of the State's roles is to ensure a fair setting where all can participate. The damage caused by monopoly is far greater than that of long - term healthy competition. However, the short - term effects are easy to solve, either meet the company's plans or not without state responsibility. By our Kingdom responsibilities, we are bound to influence the competitive environment, even for some years. Without State responsibilities, the risk will be taken properly, and if the result is no, then the time for the state to react is the time to ensure safe flight to and from the country. After all, it is not something that says that the state of responsibilities is a bad idea for us as elected agents. It's very different for the banks, of course. The last straw for me was the custom case for the Economic and Business Committee to allow the Pensions of Pensions to be put in place in order to try to save Icellands, but the combined effect of all the measures that the government has had to take should lead people to that conclusion. In words found in the 2016 Commission's Committee for Economic and Business Committee, by permission of the President: In particular, the EUROPEAN EUROPEAN PUBLICATIONS are used in risk management and prognostication. The committee does not consider surrogacy to be compatible with the role of pension funds as long-term investors. In this regard, for example, Bristur, Brynjar of Níelsson, daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, Sigríður Á. Andersen and Willum Þór Þórsson, all the current members of the council. The result here is a subscription derivative. So it works some time after the pension fund buys the money, they are offered to buy more at a fixed price. It's a very good offer if the stock goes up above the subscription rate, but not so good if the stocks don't raise or even lower. Here, though, it is only a choice to buy those subscriptions when opportunities are available. Not that it matters. The pension fund may decide not to buy the stocks that are offered for subscriptions. That, however, reduces the risk. The risk, however, may not be successful, for the problem of temptation can be difficult, the temptation to recover what was lost if only another hundred call is put in the slot box. The problem is difficult, as many people know all too well. The structure of the state responsibility and the format of the stock auction look good. The Icelandians plan looks good. The logic is convincing. They're so convincing they shouldn't need State responsibilities. Credential evidence received by the budget of Icelanda's budgets and their sensitive analysis of estimates looks good. In other words, it means that they do not need Kingdom responsibility. There should be no need for specialisation of deliberation investments for a pension fund. It should not be necessary to extend the package travel responsibility, not particularly for Icelanda, as it should not be necessary to assist companies on a large scale, since public funds are not an open market reserve of companies. It is not a corporate reserve that skimmed the rights of its employees to negotiate its purchases and benefits. And it's not a corporate reserve or a government that should show more respect for national duty. It doesn't need State responsibilities, because the plan as presented is good, as far as it will reach in the opinion of those who intend to participate in the stock market. That food is different from my food. I'm not looking at the stock market with the same eyes as investors, not at all. Therefore, I say no to this state responsibility, even though investors may consider it a good idea to participate in the stock market. Officials have helped Icellands a great deal by other general means of helping companies in general to survive the decline. The problem we face when the government involved in such a business, such as Icelanda, is that the business of companies, such as Iclindas, gives the secondary gains to the community that the public can count in addition to their accounts through increased tax revenues and other factors because of their operation. But it is very difficult for competitive people to see that the state can count on a number of things that competitors cannot. There is a competitive problem between flights and banks, as I described earlier. All the objectives of this schedule can be met without Icelanda being included in this equation. It is true that the objective of the government is to ensure safe and safe flight to and from Iceland. This does not require Icelanda. This may be the easiest solution to a short period of time, but it is a huge question in the long run. It's really big. You see, the government is responsible for people, not for brands.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u40	President. Thank you. A senator for his position fairly clear. I have not necessarily felt that it is a mark of everyone here who has spoken of how and whether they feel that State responsibility should be given. Thank you. A senator for that. Of course, it can only be me, but I still have to say that I don't feel quite compatible. A member of the House of Portu, listed in Article 2 of the magazine, attended by a member of the Council of Pirata, which was sent to the press today. By permission of the president, the committee states: ▪ The structure of the state responsibility and the format of the stock auction look good. The Icelandians plan looks good. The logic is convincing. They're so convincing they shouldn't need State responsibilities. The confidentiality data established by the budget of Icelando's budgets and their sensitive analysis of estimates look good.• However, the declaration says, with permission of the president: Ingelanda's reorganisation plan is based on high ground [...] The appearances of society's stratospheric analysis are so large that Icelanda's debts are not at all certain to fail for the next few years. I must say, Mr President, I can't quite get this to come together. I feel like I'm saying hot one side and cold on the other side. End of story. A senator signing on both sides is the same, but I feel that he is using completely contrary reasoning to reach that conclusion. So I would like to pray. A senator explaining this to me only.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u41	A respectable president. It was at the end of my case: As far as they are going to achieve it. I'm not looking at the case that invests. If I came to that presentation in Darp as amateur investors, I'd think she'd look really good. It's a big, clear picture. I couldn't put anything on her, but it wouldn't be my job. My job is to view the case as an elected agent. On this basis, the gaps are enormous, as I described in my speech. The effort has been made to provide Illelands by means of the part-change route, the directions, the custom payment of a pension fund so that they can participate in this campaign and also give responsibilities to the state. Everything that has been listed, regardless of society's plans that might be very attractive to investors, is not attractive to me as an elected representative.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u42	Madam President. Yeah, I heard him. A candidate would mention this in a talk chair, but the last thing he quoted is not to be found in the committee opinion as far as it will go. That's why I was wondering if this would have been improved by a statement made by Pirata's members. I like it. A senator assumes the wrong conclusion because the reasoning of the Society is convincing. He concludes that this means that Kingdom responsibilities are not needed. Meanwhile, I feel that he is lacking in the equation that the evidence is convincing and that potential stockholders exist to participate in exactly because of the state's responsibility, that the overall package looks as it really is, not as if it has nothing to do with it. Then I'd like to ask another question in a statement. Pirata's senator, who says, by permission of the President: If the society's bankruptcy seems inevitable, the state can intervene and acquire its dominant share, e.g. by buying the share of the pension fund and securing financial resources to maintain minimum transport to and from the country as anticipated by a foreign country. I understand this only as one of the possible advantages that should be considered, so if an Icelandic government were to buy a share of the existing shareholders, it is likely to add what is needed for the union to be busier, for it obviously lacks the money if it has come into this position. Because I know why. A senator is very interested in the fact that everything is calculated, that squares are correct, and all the stage photos have been examined, I would like to ask him: Has he ever wondered what it is that way? Pirat's council suggests that a government fund would be involved? Is it hard to believe that it would cost tens of billions of dollars? And why is that? Piratian council for that kind of expenses?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u43	A respectable president. The value of Icelanda is now about 5 billion. The share of the pension fund is about 40 to50%, so the cost of buying from it would be at most in view of the current situation. Another way I've mentioned is a service route, similar to the one we've gone to the mail service, when and if we could get to the point of taking on the state responsibility, the company is probably not very valuable anymore because all the funds have been spent. [[But stock tenders...?]] If we succeed, however, we have nothing to worry about. As I told you before, the state responsibility isn't for Icellands. It's for the bank, it's for the bank, it's paid for the bank's loan. Therefore, Iclanders do not need national responsibility for their plans for investors, professional investors, etc. We don't have any comments about the importance of state responsibility in all of this. I make a decision based on the evidence available. I haven't been looking at this case since March or April, like the Ministry of finance. I've been doing a couple of weeks on this case. The evidence we have in our hands that elected agents at least tell me that there is no need for this Kingdom responsibility. The stock market and Icelland plan should be able to withstand the terms and format of professional investors. But on the basis of government conditions and responsibilities? No. Both can be true.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the prehistoric body of committees whom he published following a discussion and the discussion of the legal committee on this matter, which he has engaged in faithfully, as he has already known. On the other hand, I would like to protest what he said in his speech before and in the opinion of the committee that the state responsibility is demanding the banks. It has not been mentioned in the Committee. I'll ask him to remember it in my head where it's been revealed. However, I would like to make it clear in this discussion, and I think it is necessary at this stage, that the state responsibility is a puzzle plan. It is to ensure, in the long run of this society, which is as important to us as it has been to the Commission, if this had been unclear before, in order to protect the production tools we call so important, i.e. the position that we can have a powerful turn at the economy when the situation that is now over. A respectable president. I'm gonna make that clear in answer to what you're saying. The senator here wants us to have an active international competition. Therefore, the changes most of the legal committee used themselves for the terms I pray. To address the concerns that were expressed by many sources, a senator discussed in an answer here. On the other hand, I would also like to state that the status of this airline was entirely different from that of a foreign airline who is being drawn into this discussion, which I think is a good idea that we too should put our arms around it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u45	A respectable president. The status of Icelanda, as presented in the airline plan, is that the State responsibilities are not expected to be withdrawn. That's why I say that the coming of the State isn't really until it's over. If it never happens, then it's great, and we don't have to do anything more. This was shown in the case of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs at a meeting where some were very frustrated, if any. A senator remembers the meeting, that the demands have asked for the state responsibility, and I read between the lines that they have the banks after all. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u46	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. I'd like to later discuss another factor at what. A senator. I feel that the discussion here with other threads is a bit coloring because we are willing to take risks with government funds when we are considering alternatives to this one, because we put a lot of work on the budget to consider the methods that have been evaluated by this decision. I'm going to do some publicity on the risks we're taking with the public money and the responsibilities that we're going to face that we don't do here lightly. I'm not saying anyone's doing it either. We need to take it seriously. Hv. A senator turned aside Kingdom responsibility that would go through the bank of the state. I felt that he moved in the very reason to accept, very good reasons that the state should not be holding those banks. In discussions about the risks we take with the public money in this important matter, holding these large banks, crystalline that there is a risk we shouldn't take. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u47	A respectable president. I just want to add the first answer. The cost of the administration of the Kingdom will be very clear when it comes to the need for it. In fact, it is of utmost importance when it comes to Kingdom responsibilities. The cost of the State's competitiveness, of willfulness to the company, and of that sort should be considered if these Kingdom responsibilities are not made. The cost is simply wrong, as it is set out today. With property in the banks, I think it was pretty simple. For many years this has been said to separate risk investments from public banking. I think the answer is really just there. Of course, the Kingdom should not be meddling in investments and having them. But there is nothing wrong with the State's public banking services, just a simple service that others can then compete for.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u48	A respectable president. I'd like to recommend Committee Three, smaller section of the budget board. The minister has provided the two primes discussed here in order to give the state guarantee of a loan line to Illeland Group Corp. Why do I tell Icellandir Group Corp?? Why don't I just tell Icelands? Yes, because all the scenarios and the results and calculations on what it takes and were considered reasonably sufficient for this state responsibility, to which the Society Deloitte was obtained, were actually based on the entire group of Icelanda. I would have liked to see clearly the need for support from Icelanda in order to ensure flight to and from the country. This Kingdom responsibility aims to support the financial reorganization of an enterprise in a private business. Under normal circumstances, the State is to stay out of business ventures in a competitive market. However, when an enterprise is engaged in a systematicly important service, it can become a public interest to ensure continued operation. According to our assessment in my section 3, Icellands are regarded as irreprehensiblely critical of transport, i.e. International flight to and from the country. In this case, when there is danger of bankruptcy, it is the State's job to ensure flight transport, that they do not stumble. The fact that we have not been buried in the Gang of the People is that we believe Icelands is systematically important to us and to the public, that we are keeping the line open to and from the country. Icelanders is the only Icelandic company on a secure flight to and from the country. The government has the headquarters of this search warrant to provide the Illelands Group Corp. Self - debt responsibility for loans that can study up to 108 million. $90 million, equal to 90% of $120 million. U.S. loan lines to the club. Instead of using current state responsibilities laws, as noted above by representatives of the 1st and 2nd smaller legal committees, the government intends to look for special resources. The evidence is given for the exception that the terms of state responsibilities are not appropriate in this case. It will be unfortunate for the government to have one case after another - think, one after the other - to compromise existing laws in order to achieve its goals. No doubt many of these laws are for their own years and are not suitable for such situations. It is the responsibility of the governments, however, to ensure that the laws in this land are tailored to modern conditions. If a law on State responsibilities is so out - of - date that they need to be avoided, ask why they have not been reformed. It is absolutely unacceptable that the Council repeatedly needs to give an exception to the current rights, where most of the stock has not worked on the necessary reforms of the law. Or is this, a respectable president, perhaps not the reason why State responsibilities laws have been ignored? I'll leave it here. Projections, accounting systems, and Icelland's landing warrants are under way. Clearly, these bets do not depend on the possible commitments of the society. In addition, there is considerable uncertainty about the value of landing warrants, which depend on various conditions that can easily prevent them from buying and selling. A government review pointed out that it would be highly unlikely that the assets placed under requirements that could study up to 15 billion dollars. At that time, the Society is heavily in debt, and the state's seat in a row is uncertain, and the union will fail. A few days ago, it was the highest. The secretary of finance comes in after the value of these bets. As I understood, he was not sure that they could even be covered with bets, that would probably not be an example for him to view a landing rock and other such as a pledge and then what it was worth. So there is a considerable financial risk to the state's financial resources. A third thing would have chosen that the state's funds could have gained a share of the company relative to the use of State responsibilities would have come to her. I would like to point out the latest when the German state now took to heart a 20% share in Lufhansa. It was responsible for nine billion euros, about $120 billion. We'll see that they're worth about 280 billion in this company. It is not new that the German state steps in like this, has done this in the past, and has helped to build the union it considersally important for itself. Thus, since the establishment of the Kingdom from the ashes, it has been restored to a free market. There's nothing that says we can't do the same, not at least. In the opinion of the 3rd part. The government's support for a private business in competitive business must not go beyond the need to ensure systematicly important interests. You see, here's the problem. Icelanders Group Corp. is the motherhood of various businesses. Its roads are not only international air traffic but also air supply, domestic flights, travel services, and hotel business. There is no evidence to support the systematic importance of any of the activities of Ingelanda Group. No way. So, there are other factors, except for Air Iceland Connecticut, flying to Greenland and the Faeroe Islands, that I understand, in a bullshit domestic competition. Icelanders are undisputed among the only Icelandic airline who makes flights to and from the country, as I have said before. Other activities of the company include active competition with national partners. Therefore, it must be legally guaranteed that the State's responsibilities are limited to Icelanda and only to ensure continued flights to and from the country. The Governing Body, together with national competitors who have established a budgetary committee, has warned that the State's cooperation with the global conglomerate is a competitive market position. That's what I've been talking about, more dignified President. We have the Commission opinion. I would like to thank the committee that I might have done at the beginning for a job well done, for it has to be said, as it is, that we had an amazingly short period of time. And not just a short time in taking hold of such a huge case as the financial policy we've just taken over, and then this huge state responsibility, but it's a man running hard to join a committee because he has no time to do it. It is also removed from the principle and, in effect, wrote the rule that we should have up to two days, not two hours, as we have been experiencing right now. But that does not change the fact that we have all been willing and have really put forth real effort, whether it was more of a legal committee or we were in the lesser part. It does not change the fact that the committee's opinion was changed, it came from the Ministry, to try to match what we did, we wanted to make sure that this was about the Icelands and was taken with no doubt that it was being saved because we had to travel to and from the country and the systematic importance of it. Then we felt in hand to simply say Icellands, just everywhere, because from the beginning, from early spring to April, I remember when I was the highest. The minister of finance and prime minister were discussing whether there could be a chance that the State would have to step in and save what would be saved if necessary, never to mention Illeland's Group, or any other place within a table, or Air Ice Connection, or anything, except Icelands. That's what I would have wanted to plan the course and that would have been clear, as I said to him. I would have been proud of this committee party. It's just that way. But if this was the way it was done, I didn't see it move, and I still don't understand why it wasn't to be conditioned to the Icellands. As soon as it is not, in fact, all the arguments presented to convince the whole nation as well as all others of the need to bring the state responsibility into the club are thrown out of the window in my opinion. Nevertheless, it is looked as if there will be no demand in the budget that credit lines that will be used only for international air management of Icelanda. It is far from adequate to set up conditions in the Committee's list of major legal committees that do not occur in the law of state responsibility themselves. A body as lawgiver should better issue its own budget. We are taking this together, as I said at the beginning, this is the fourth sum we have in our arms now, and this allowance is only to give this warrant to the Icelanda Group's responsibility. A legislature to further set up the budget for itself to ensure that Kingdom responsibilities loans will not be used to compete on national markets. This kind of authority is not to be given by the General Assembly. It is in our hands to define the responsibility so that the loan lines it guarantees will only be used in behalf of the international flight of Icelanda. The government will not be held back when problems arise with a major corporation on the market. It would be wish for her to show similar interest in growing poverty in the country, followed by the Covid-19 epidemic, which has repeatedly rejected the mob's proposal to promote assistance to the poor in the community. Here, we find crystal clear priorities for the government. Money owners and businesses get first. Poor people can wait. Couldn't help either? In this case, we have a systematic market for a company and are simply forced to save it, but if we hadn't been able to save both of them, could we? We're talking about huge sums of money, up to 15 billion dollars, but at the same time, there is increasing unemployment and more and more are making a living that gives them about 240,000 dollars. paid in a month. What are we doing with that? Nothing. Nothing. V.E.G. A financial minister has even said that it would not be right to raise the basic progress of unemployment because it would likely contribute to an even greater degree of laziness that would not stop working. It is shocking to have to listen to such things. A third of my items cannot support a short bill which suggests an open source that is, in fact, a support to a private company in a competitive market. It is the responsibility of the Parliament to ensure legal resources for specific measures are clear and conditional. This commission doesn't meet those requirements in my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u49	Mr. President. I can't help but come up here to answer the pure distortions that were presented in the case of the day. Senator. I don't know why. A senator puts it this way to try to put dust into the eyes of the common people, for it is not that it is being abandoned by the law of state responsibility because it is not appropriate in this case, as the members of a committee party say. However, it is this way, as a financial committee has been carefully considered, that if the State responsibilities were applied to Icelanda, and because of responsibilities adopted by the General Assembly regarding the epidemic, they would not be able to achieve their goals. It's not because it's not suitable. These laws are not relevant only and if we want to reach our goal. A senator spoke of the business as being systematicly important, needs to go another way. The way in which this is taking place is specializing the conditions for the State's responsibilities and writing down how to repay if the State guarantees to be taken care of. The more it is used, the more expensive it must be paid. I just wanted to say it right here. [[Up front.]] I'm correcting the wrong impressions I've already made in the matter. A senator and she'll just have to explain. It is to ensure that the interests of the state's funds can be maintained but at the same time to meet this systematicly important enterprise.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u50	A respectable president. I'm just asking for respect because I didn't realize the question. But what is meant by Kingdom responsibilities and laws is that there is a State responsibilities fund that would have had to be handled in a different way than this. Hence, the law had to be overlooked. The law that we have been building and putting in an effort to protect the interests of the common people is disregarding. It is being avoided by the State Accounting Fund and State Accountability Act, as it is said. I don't agree with that. A senator can come up here and correct me and tell me I'm talking nonsense. Hv. A senator would do well to stop bullshitting himself. It'd be better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u51	Mr. President. I would like to maintain that there are clear and sound reasons for why the terms of state responsibility are custom. But maybe I can agree with what. A senator who says that the Council should not give open clearance, but this is the case with open clearance. Mr. President, we're not giving open clearance to state responsibilities. Here it is granted permission to provide Kingdom responsibility with very clear conditions that have been published, are available to all, and follow through on the Congress so that all can understand them and see that it is not exactly a means to provide open authority of one kind or any kind but a possibility for state responsibility that comes with strict conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer, but the source is very clear regarding the fact that Icelanda Group, a whole corporation, can take advantage of the state responsibility without our saying anything about it. It's just that way. That's how I see it. The nominee's opinion guarantees that nothing will be done, not to any extent. It is not enough to have a good will. It is not enough to say, as at one time or another, that we should be able to tell ourselves, and this should just be in the eye. It is obvious that it is simply a matter of not ensuring flights to and from the land. This does not reveal why. I would have liked to see for Icelandi. That's what I'm talking about being open and that's it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for history. I just want, like, what? paritaprevir The Steinunn Árnadóttir Ánardóttir discussed in reply, protesting that we are leaving behind an open source. I'm going to read up on the terms of the State responsibilities that follow the commission of the committee and underline it, a respectable president, that it was by means of trouble. The legal committee - at least some of it - and indeed the whole committee - I want to mean - which was specifically involved in the terms of the terms, to what responsibility they were given. The terms say, with the permission of the president: Remuneration should only be allowed to make use of loans per the contract in order to account for the general cost of operating related to loan management to and from the country in accordance with the company's management programme. The overall cost of operating is considered to be high. pay and pay-related fees, management, rent, other labour-related fees, contracting and interest pay in accordance with management programmes, oil prevention for trade and services transactions, reimbursement for clients, and regular maintenance. The loan is not allowed to be used to finance business, or otherwise used, such as a daughter's partner in a controlled loan that does not happen to be a pilot in Iceland to and from the country. There can't be much clearer, more dignified president, and I ask why. Senator: What in the world is unclear? The state responsibilities for Icelanda Group are included in our members' list and in the documents in which we published, the terms of which are explained. They follow the committee's opinion as a legal solution, and it's totally noted that this will be the case resolved. I believe, a respectable president, that this position is merely an alibi to take sides in this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Nigga, he says. No, it does not appear anywhere in the quoted text of the exposés that this is Icelanda. It refers to the flight of a company that flies to and from the country. Now let's just talk about that inside Illeland Group is an Air Iceland Connecticut, who flies in and out of the country and that's where I put my foot down. That's not where I think it's systematicly important for us to step in and this so-called legal explanation warrants exactly that, unless it is. A senator can tell me something else. If so, I will be the first to make sure that this is only Icelanda.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u55	Mr. President. I'm not going to go on much further. I simply say, "This is very clear, " and while there's an international flight of Air Iceland Connecticut, it's also international. We must expect, and we expect the terms and conditions given to this challenge to be fully met, although this point may apply to this international flight. But I'm going to say, a respectable president, that I'm celebrating. In his background, a senator said that the government should not invest in business and put in stocks. That's why I didn't quite realize it when it happened. A senator then went over to ask if it would be better for the government to gain some kind of stock in the company. I couldn't quite hook up, please. A senator explaining it to me better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u56	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and also thanking him for having mentioned here, first of all, an Air Iceland Connecticut and devoid of any doubt about what I was saying. Second, in terms of the commercial stock trade of the Icelandic government, this is an exception to the principle as I was correctly introduced. While the principle is that we are not to be involved in investing in a stock market, in this case we are only doing so because it is a systematicly important company that is considered to be of public interest that we are walking. That's how I've understood it all along, and that's how I wanted to support it. We hope that we do not have to watch using the loan line, since this suggests that the company is finally overrun anyway. If that happens, I think I'd rather see that we could build it up on an old solid foundation and look to what, for example. is being done and has been done in Germany and in other places when governments come to save airlines in trouble. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u57	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. Now I'm not legally educated, but the senator is and the matter is about taking stock cover, as we have seen in earlier discussions here. In fact, as a player on the field, I thought that the market market markets could not be staked. I'd like to ask what the senator thinks about this. As I understood her before, it's part of her filing to take a bet on the company's stock money. We've been on this case for nine days about Kingdom responsibilities. It's been a lot of process, and I was very pleased with the way we handled matters in terms of the definitions of the Icelanda Group and then again on Iclanddir and flying. As far as I know, but I only know the size of the operation of these partners, Air Iceland Connecticut is a small company compared to Illeland Group or Icelands as a single company, a subsidiary inside the maternal society. It has been observed at the committee that Iclanddir has about 75% of the Icellands Group's well-being, so I thought we had a little wrapped up in this important matter and that this was all over. I believe we've done a very good job with these factors in this environment, how we put in the terms of terms and other things about the loan line. These are the questions I might want to start with.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm wondering if we can have a share in the company instead of having anything. When the loan lines that I hope will not be used are in progress, they suggest that the company is in a bad position that it takes even more control. Then I'd rather have a share in the company of 15 billion than get nothing. There is nothing that forbids that, rather than action, all around us. This is just a matter of terms that can fit into the contract discussed here. I agree with what happened. A senator says, we've only done well. But we are not all alike, as eight different categories here at the council, and perhaps not all of us see things the same way. Hv. A senator rightly points out that Air Iceland Connecticut is a tiny part inside the maternal society, but it does not change the fact, as if I am this, and as is said in the exposé, which is in the opinion of a greater part of the legal committee, that, in fact, nothing is being said to be done about flying to and from the country. There's no condition to which union it is. It is not even foretold whether there can be more of those who could begin to fly to and out of the country and possibly fall under the exact same conditions. I don't think it's a good thing, when we're in the palm of the room having things clear, to put them not just on paper. There is no need to scratch on legal evidence and the committee's opinion when we are the lawgiver and when we can simply set the rules and agree that we want to be clear and conditioned. It's just where I am.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u59	A respectable president. When we discussed the matter on the committee, it was stated that the Air Iceland Connecticut, or the real Iceland Fed, and the number behind it, had just slipped into Icelandas Cargo by the second quarter. They're not special granddaughters in the club. That's why it's a little difficult to separate. The other thing's about stock cover. I remember that it was during the discussion that the share money is 5.4 billion. If you're going to gamble 15 billion on stock - I don't understand this ideologies that appeared in previous speeches, and as I understood a speech by then. A senator, taking a guarantee of part of the company owned by other shareholders, how it should happen in all this process.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u60	A respectable president. No, I had not thought and never tried to put it up as if it were some kind of bet on the value of the club, as it is measured today, of 5.6 billion. Perhaps we could have bought it instead of setting 15 billion dollars. State responsibility for the Society. But all of us believe in a financial committee that this society of ours has a strong foundation and is strong that when this pandemic is over, it will flourish again. What I'm trying to say is that if it comes to the company's having to take over their Kingdom responsibilities, the state responsibility is $15 billion. If the Society must take up the Kingdom responsibility, it is already in serious trouble. Then I'd just like the government to have that part of that, because it's going to be building up the club, to have whatever part it needs to give up, whether it's 5 billion, 10 billion, or how much of the loan line it's going to be worth, and to take it over with the rights and responsibilities that come with it. It's kind of the thought I was trying to come from me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u61	Mr. President. We are discussing a big, big matter that has many aspects to consider. All of us face the fact that flying is a major problem in many parts of the world, and Iceland is no exception. In effect, the land is closed or isolated in the sense that there are no modern - day flights and from the land. I think I heard in the news today or this morning that there were two trips to and from the country with the Icelanda airline, but I think more people on the road of foreign airlines. Now we live in a market economy that is competitive, and we have laws and rules that apply to it. The guy standing here thinks that at least... - and I think very many members of Congress feel the same way - that there is supposed to be a free market and that the market should not be publicized. At the airport, there's a lot of competition. We've seen the rise in flight to and from the country into a great deal of competition. The airport also has a high rate of activity, in the sense that humans are relatively more prone to air traffic and start a business. Airlines come and go both figuratively, i.e. They pick up their new destination and stop flying on them, and the airlines themselves come and leave because they fail to resist the competition and lay low. Icelands, which, of course, are part of the Icelanda Group we're dealing with, is a very large company on every scale in Iceland. It's not just an international flight. It has a wide range of activities that, at best, have a major impact on the economy, affect many of the individuals involved in it work, and make significant money because of the tourists coming here. But the company is also very big. It runs all kinds of operations related to flying and tourism. They also compete with foreign and Icelandic people. All the intervention of the government must be very balanced and have, if considered, as little interference as possible. This must be kept in mind when discussing these matters. It's a big decision, as I think I've said here in the beginning, and there's a long way from making it feel like it's gotta be self-condent. There is also strong evidence that this is not the way to go, that there should be other ways that are equally effective. The bill on the state responsibility of loan lines that I'm not going to describe shows that it has a high risk. If the loan lines are pulled, the company's business is in serious trouble. The bets made are not reliable. Their value is very uncertain. They may become valuable. But I don't think they'll reach the 15 billion. It may also cause them to become worthless. And I don't think there's anything to try to pull a feather over it or surrounding the fact that these bets are actually of some importance in the context of what we're talking about here. Of course, Icelands has a long history. It has built up activities here and around the world, it has built a large network and commercial parks, and it transports goods and people across the sea, to America, and to Europe. This is a very important operation, and without doubt, it is systematicly important to us Icelanders. However, it must never be mixed together completely because some activity or service is systematicly important and that the company that it needs to be systematicly important. This too is vital to bear in mind. When we determine whether and how to handle a position that exists, I also believe that we are fully aware of who are the owners of the Icelanda Group, as it is financed today. The public has a very large share in the company. That's what happens in a lot of the country's Pension Fund. The public already carries a great deal of risk through their pension fund. In some sense, the funds have staked a part of the future pension to this investment. Surely, then, the public has arrived. It also turns out that business banks of the club, at least The biggest, the two federal banks, and we the public are the owners of that bank. The Society owes them a considerable amount of money. They are being reassigned, and a significant part of the export is being sold as well. So there is no need to play any particular hideout with the state, the pension fund, and, hence, the public in the country, in this matter. That is what all of us need to keep in mind. Of course, we're not all in the richest pension fund there is. Some partners in the pension fund agree and others don't. What I'm trying to come to is that it's already the union in some sense much -- I don't know what to use - social and social responsibility for all of us. That's the way it is. I think it is quite clear that the pension funds for the investments of the stock of the stock of the stock market that has been advertised and requested in the middle of this month. They're looked very hard on. I think I can almost say they're expected to participate. It is quite clear that in many ways the funds are oppressive, both because they already have a substantial share in the company, which of course you can ask yourself, " What is worth in the present situation, and as a result of their being in a very narrow position? ' They are in some sort of dilemma over their investments, for the government has directly and indirectly prevented them from investing where they choose. And, of course, I am primarily referring to foreign investments. The fund may, for example, invest as the law allows in this country, but it is placed on that limit. So the situation is this one, and I don't think we're supposed to be dragging feathers over it or calling it something because it's more or less private and that the state is coming to this just for the last long. Of course, that is not the case. We're all around here. I think it's inevitable to think that the matter is a significant consequence, i.e. in the financial or government and society talks about the possibility of the administration of the state. Similarly, the council has had little time to reason on the matter. However, I would like to state that I feel that a financial committee has done quite well and that I have done what was within her. Of course, the situation had come to an end, so there was not really a room to make some fundamental change in the way the Ministry of finance and finance had decided. There have been discussions that there are differing opinions, and so do I. The situation was very narrow in this regard. The stock market should be held in ten days. This morning a reinvestment with the company was released, and there are changes, so the terms are not quite the same as they were when the committee discussed them. Granted, that is not a dramatic change, but it is all about. There is so much to say about the competition and how to look after it. This has to do with so many people. The U.S. Senate gave a detailed review of the matter and called attention to the fact that although it was permitted to intervene in a state of assistance in this case, it did not free the government from taking care of competitiveness in the case. Of course, it is time to rejoice that the competition is being handled only by the committee. As we have seen, and I'm not going to repeat, there was also a lot of discussion about how to set up the help. And I think, in many ways, it has been quite successful to determine which section to use if they are drawn. So I say: It is clear that the budgetary committee was able to make certain adjustments in the case, showing the importance of the hearing. And in such a big case where there are many views and many major opinions, the council would, of course, have had to have more time to make real changes if it had been possible to do so. Either way, the situation has improved considerably. As I mentioned earlier, the expected stock market will be held in a few days. I have to say from my heart that it has been very difficult for me to decide which course I should take regarding support or not support. It's been very difficult, and I've been swinging because I feel that there's a lot of people in the matter and that it could have been better to think, to do better, and at least to discuss it better, so that everyone could have deep conviction that it was the right way. Eventually, my conclusion that I found out for lunch today was that I decided to be at a committee party at the greater part, even though there are things I would have chosen to have different things in my case and things I would have chosen to have different. Nevertheless, I decided to support the situation. Why are you supporting the situation? Perhaps someone would ask after my speech, since I've been talking about bait being on the case and that would be lipy, various large princes would be at stake, which one might have concluded would have led to the fact that I had not supported the matter. That's the big club down there. But sometimes you have to make decisions, and I decided to support the greater part of the situation. I do so primarily because time is simply running away from us. We often talk about the politicians'need for assurance and the need for confidence in the future. I prefer to think that with this step - although it would certainly have been possible to do this differently - at least to the investors who consider investing in the company granted certain assurances. This may lead to their being more willing and successful. Of course, all of us want our company to succeed, to be on their feet, and to be strong. But I will also expect to do so, and I will follow that in particular the fact that this large and large society will be successful in the competition, and that will, in fact, do so whether this responsibilities are to be brought down or not. There's a market to watch out for competition. Although most of us have tender feelings for the Icelland Society and are proud of it, it is still only a company full of people. The company itself is nothing but people and people can find a way elsewhere if they do. My conclusion after this question is that it is appropriate to take this step. But I do know that the public is all around it. I'll do it knowing that this may lead to a loss of responsibility. And I also do so knowing that there may not be responsibilities or bets to repair the damage. And I do it because I believe this business is important to Icelandic society and the fight in the Depression if we can keep it in at least some years. [[The president calls.]] That's why I decided to take this step.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u62	Mr. President. I'd like to get involved in a discussion about the big issues that are being discussed here, as well as the government warrants for the Icelanda Group, and maybe mention just two, three points that I think are a reason to pause in this discussion at this point. The head of a large section of the budget board, huh? Þóra As we try to add evidence that is behind the fact that we have come to this conclusion, which was not completely self - forgiven, we can refer to, in many ways, to the evidence behind which we have come to this conclusion, and in many ways I can agree with many of these things. paritaprevir In his talk earlier, Jón Valdimarsson told us how many factors we need to look to when we arrive at this conclusion. We called particularly on what pre-work was being performed and what analysis was made to reach this conclusion. We received clear answers about this, and they are partly listed in our committee party, I'm not going to swerve them here specifically. It was in itself an obvious conclusion that the way this is suggested was thought to be the one to be the most risky in this case for a government fund and also the way that might be most effective for the Society to regain power. That's what I said back here earlier today, top dog. President, that this particular airline was not exactly comparable to the airlines that have been mentioned in the discussion today that have somehow or completely lost in public property, since the Society was well funded for financial resources when this crisis or condition developed and it has advanced it to this place. We then had fine travelers for the summer, but unfortunately, we do not see the end of present conditions, so there is reason to prepare for the future in this way. A great deal of discussion has been made on the part of the government as a shareholder. Perhaps it can be summed up from the analyses and opinions that were further in the summer on the arrival of the State or the State to help with this organization that it was the most risky way. That's why we're in this situation today. We look at it very strong, and we do not tire out that it is a major problem -- in this case, a puzzle plan we hope we do not have to try. It may be the second point, a respectable president, which I would like to present especially in the discussion at this point that professional and thorough work led us to this conclusion. The other thing -- that was well presented in the discussion of the Committee, and it is right to make it a subject, in which words such as systematicly important enterprises are being used and we may not always know what it means - is simply that they respond to tourism and other companies who have participated in a general discussion about the Senate in recent days and weeks have completely drawn up the importance of the company, because this large company and this large enterprise is really and is the carrier in the transport service we know here and want to rise at the speed of a new game. For example, when representatives of Istavia brought up a budget committee to discuss this matter of Congress, it was interesting, how flights or tourism can begin rapidly when the situation is resolved. Therefore, we believe that by doing this, we can get a stronger approach very quickly. It means so much to us. Sometimes it's the financial policy debate about how this sudden crisis that we're going to have, whether it's V-shaped or U-shaped, or even corrraigs-shaped. The pictures that Istavia drew to us showed that after a situation like this, traveling is a great return. It is then our responsibility that all of the events we discuss here that this company will not be the ones to ruin the chances of others on this market either. I just want to bring it up, a respectable president, that, despite being a competitor here, they are dealing with this particular matter - and they are concerned about the competitiveness and how the government help, if taken, will be able to influence their future competitiveness - all or almost all of us agree that Icelands should help in this way. There was, I say, the importance of this company was first and foremost. I wanted to be here during the discussion, a respectable president, when it comes to the fact that these are the main points in our discussion about why that route was gone and then criticism of the assistance, that it could lead to market disorder. That is why a financial committee will promote the payment of Kingdom responsibilities on loans. Moreover, we must not forget that in the past few weeks the managers of this company have done an enormous job to strengthen the Society. Contract agreements and contracts have been passed into agreements that have been drawn into this discussion, as well as other aspects of the management business that over the longer term make the partner operating operators. I just want to say at the end, a respectable president, that I have a good conscience to support this matter, and we suggest that it be approved. We know the concern and interference that could possibly result, but it's a project to deal with it, and that's why we have the surveillance agencies and conditions that we decided to publish with this council. To me, it has to do with the find in Keflavík and all the structure there, the power of the network that lies there, which will be the driving force for economic growth that we need in the next few months.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the tour. I think we're in a similar position, saying that this is not necessarily an easy situation, although I have heard the senator say he is comfortable with it. Of course, we hope that the conclusion will be that we're all comfortable with the decision I think is to be taken here tonight and that this will help keep this important business alive, not just for the tourism and the people who are working there, but for society all. Where it is. A senator who is a vice president of a budget board and who knows things very well, but I missed the beginning of the discussion, would like to ask a few questions. In view of the greater part on p. 3, referring to key options and risk factors for granting state responsibilities, it is possible that Iclands will remain in the current picture. So that's either way 1. A, plans for state responsibility, or menu 1. B, to the government, whether in the form of an item or a loan, adds to its arrival. The conclusion was that only the way with Kingdom responsibilities would be good, so we are here. I wondered, though, if the situation isn't really the move both the way A and B, in view of how the state plays a key role as a lender, old and new, and also in the light of the great role our pension fund plays. Although it's true that it's only a pension fund that's directly linked to the state, it's all intertwined with interests. The question is, so that I find myself in it, whether or not there is any way in which I have been asked to set the rigid conditions for how far the State should step there, either as a creditor or as a shareholder, and whether the conditions should ever reverse the terms of private resources to ease the risks of the Icelandic public. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for her inquiry. Even though I put it this bill's acceptable recommendation, I'm just gonna be honest with you and say, "I didn't like it at first. " But we've been through it this way, and we're convinced that we're setting a responsible way here, less dangerous way. And that's right, as a matter of course. A senator says, and let us not ignore that the government is in one way or another taking a great risk, e.g. ... withtheU.S.U.S.A.G.S.S.A.S.A. Then I'd like to review, sir, a respectable president, that we have a rule here that separates the political community from the bank's run, where there's a lot of longitude, so I trust the banks have made their decision on business terms. That's what we're going to have to do with them. We no longer have our fingers at the decision-making of banks, as was the case back in the day, which I don't remember when it's elderly. On that point. One senator, whether we should have limited it in any way, would I like to say that the terms of the state responsibility of how to manage the loan line are a very limited factor? The business, or plans, does not work in the way we are hoping for them to test the terms. In addition, in this regard, I'm going to say that the sensitivity analysis that we received an introduction in it also meant that there was a major difference in the nature of the situation. No, we didn't discuss any more restrictions. We do not close our eyes on the great social attraction of the company, but I refer to the terms of this document, how it can be done on this loan. There's a guard with a lot of limits.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u65	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. I have to say, as it is, it's a relief to hear the sound. A senator has gone through this process. I know there are more people who have been negative at the beginning than they have now. Not long ago, another airline in this country went through a lot of shit, but that's WOW. That was a bad time. During the last summer, news of the managers' runners was prepared to reduce, write down, renegotiate debts in order to have a chance to be a public help or to save. There were reports of some success, but this did not result in the survival of the company. Then we'll come to that, and I'll just pray. A senator to correct me, that my feeling is that, and I have been digging for it, that Icelsanda's contracts with demands in summer have been mostly centered on cryo-consecation of the payments or some sort of adjustment towards the payments compared to the changing fund flows rather than a direct decrease in debt. It is also noted in these data about the Society, which makes it a little harder for all of this, that the pledge that the State can put on this responsibility is not very certain because in other respects Icieldas are in debt to the top. Then I wondered, because, relatively early in the process, this comment was made about the coming of the state responsibility, whether it would have been more inclined to hold hands, not showing them cards at the moment, and trying to put pressure on such agreements. Is that something that's wrong? A senator believes that we could have achieved with a little more clever being this large party in this important business?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u66	Mr. President. We published it in our committee program, and the head of the committee opinion discussed it very extensively in his history, how the State dealt with these talks from the beginning, and set the matter in a direction. It was in this way not to jump immediately but to place the company itself in the position of taking care of matters before it would reach the State and ask for help. Only then will the government's support be involved. I'm not going to insist on making deals with the company with the creditors, suppliers, or anything else, but it was found by the Committee that descripts are insignificant or small, I can confirm that as far as possible. A senator said about adjustments and deadlines and such things. The question was, could we have been more clever, and I think it will be best answered by the discussion of the financial committee, and in conversation with the officials and those in question, we got a good picture of how this process was being carried out, and I think that I believe that a great responsibility for the public's risk of entering the Society in this way. Since then, the debate has been about why this route has not been gone or the other way, and so on, but I just want to say, even though I'm not predicting, the stock market now will give the company the proof of health care needed for the plans and the actions that have been prepared in weeks and months. Before long, these responsibilities are not working, and then there are strict terms again to reduce these loan lines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u67	Mr. President. At the beginning of my case, I want to thank a legal committee for your good work in this important and important matter. There has been a great deal of stress on the committee during the past few days, both in discussing financial policy and then on the state responsibility for major and large cases of Icelanda. I believe the committee did a good job. Many questions were answered, and the members were very aware that it was important to get everything on the table for this planned loan and for the Ministry and for more people than once for the committee. I believe that the questions we raised and the speculations and, in some cases, doubts have been answered in a good way. We should not forget, too, that the matter has been given a good job at the Ministry, and, as noted, discussions have taken place just recently after the outbreak, and I think it was a good job. It is very important that we discern that sitting next to an actionless government can have very serious consequences. Now we're looking at maybe 10% unemployment during the New Year's season, and on Southnes it's 20%. I specifically mentioned the Southnes, and it's in Smokeynestown in 20%. A lot of people work on the roads of this company there. For example, in 2019 some 400 people worked in the Icelanda shelter at the Cheflavour Airport, as well as many women in the company. In Southnes, one in five women is out of work, so we can't afford to sit here with the government and the company fail. It is very important to prevent this, and in my opinion and in the middle class, it is a less risky way of granting this loan, this state responsibility, and the Central Party supports this case. We know that in 2020 the worst year in the history of flying drivers is the year in the world. The last few months have been extremely difficult for that operation, and I told earlier in my discussion that it was an accomplishment that the Society had survived the storms that have raged during the past few months, but now it is time to go into financial reorganization and acquire a new section of funds to ensure continued operation. Of course, the arrival of the State on this matter depends on the achieving of adequate results. It is proper to remember that in this they have taken important initiatives that strengthen the Society in the coming stock supply. All flight groups have been negotiated, and these contracts apply to 2025. The Society has also received damages from the Boing Air Force for the so-called Max Machine and has also reached important contracts with the lenders. Everything that matters is important to us. It is clear that the company has worked hard to improve its position because of this external shock. Let's face it, it's an external trauma, the virus epidemic. That is why it is very important that the preflight stock market be successful, that investors want to run the airline at difficult times. This may not be the case, but it is possible to help. It is being done with this government loan or loan line, as they say, and is basically a financial term. But this loan is a problem, it has been made clear, and it may not be new. Hopefully, it does not have to come, and according to the plans the company has set before the committee, it can go into the summer 2021 without dragging on this government loan. It is also very important, and hopefully we will see vaccines and that the virus epidemic will end in the months to come and at the beginning of the next year, and there will be no problem with the rapid restoration of the tourism industry and the important factor in the industry, of course, the flying to and the country. And then it is to remember that the cash market was strong for the viral epidemic. It is important to keep all of this in mind from the taxpayers'perspective when we discuss this loan of 15 billion dollars. It is necessary to raise this money, and this is a reliable declaration in that way so that those interested in sharing in the invitation will see that the company is being built so that it is prepared to start a powerful fight when the epidemic is over. The government would take great risks if they were embarrassed in this case and it would be very bad for a national store if the company went bankrupt. We know that the scope of it is enormous in the Icelandic economy, and it is technically complex to rebuild a bankrupt society, and much is lost in that process. And there's a lot of men in this company. Within the year 2019 4,700 places, and beyond that, there are a number of companies, so that many secondary jobs are also involved. So we are talking about thousands of jobs during this year when unemployment is reaching the highest level, of course, of course very serious. But we Icelanders are also very dependent on air transport, more than many other countries, and we have a lot to do with it, and, sort of, that this country is a stable and continuous transport for freight and population transport. So here, Mr. President, is a matter of rich social interests and material interests for a number of employees and families and companies. This discussion has shown that the government could gain a share in the company or even take over it. The stock route has been discussed considerably here and, in fact, here and there. ... fromtheService. First, I'd like to say that this is the most risky route in this matter. Since then, the history of public possession in airlines has not been encouraging, showing experience from neighboring countries. But I'm going to step down a little bit, Mr. President, to the stockway, if it's true that the government should take over this financial aid. I think it's not wise. It has been noted that this is the most risky way, and it is already a business investment. The State's cost would be greater if the Society was to be restored after its failure. Since then, a loan has been discussed with so - called change rights. It's been mentioned here in particular. That's a way that's a combination of loans and stocks. Then the company or the company would be authorized to borrow a loan with the terms that the loan could be paid by publishing stocks to demands. This is commonly referred to as an amalgam and means that the loan is not a guarantee of payment on debt. If the government granted e.g. in the case of Ingelanda's loans that could be turned into stocks but miscalculation, it would be very beneficial for the union and willful for the demanding workers who would get more if the company was to go bankrupt. Such an operation would result in the State's cost by restoring the Society more. This might be compared to the fact that if the Society finds it difficult to repay the loan, the government decides that the loans he borrowed are less lenient to other loans. So it's a risky way, unless the government accepts the long - term commitment of its funds to society's business and that's not what we're putting up with here. The goal is to recover the money as soon as possible if it is used. Thus, this route has unequivocal advantage over stock. Consider, too, the situation of the company. It needs a new partner, and as a partner registered in a stock market, it could have a negative effect on the will of demandsants to register for new stocks and others to buy stocks afterwards if the state has considerable authority to obtain a new piece of stock published in the company on the basis of the so-called variable rights. It would be because shareholders were unsure whether the State will turn debt into stocks and thereby dilute their share in the company. It's very important to keep that in mind, and that's why we don't think of this stock, that the government will have a share in the company. You're right to keep this going, Mr. President, because it's really important that this stock supply works well, and that's what we're all going to do. In addition, I would like to include just the appointment of two government work groups to review the two positions we face, i.e. That Icelanda, the airline, will remain in the present form or will pass away. It was brought up, and the conclusion is that of taking the lead here. In the event that the company is bankrupt, it is not advisable for the government to start a new society. It is very complicated to do so, and there are many rights and licenses, and there are other factors involved. Besides, I'd like to be a little more involved. The bail has been considered to be restricted from the loan and have little value. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson mentioned that these bets may have no value. So I disagree completely. There's a bet there, like some valuable landing warrants. It is very important that the state guarantees its loans, e.g. ... inthatresurrection. I mention, for example, that in 2018 Wawir sold landing clearances at Gatwick Airport in London and I think the value there was about 800 million. K. Landing clearances we're discussing here are at Heathrow Airport, which is much more valuable and then in New York City. It's in the best places. This certainly is valuable, and it would be irresponsible to say that it is not. Then there is the natural brand Iccelands and the accounting system, all of which are valuable, just to be maintained. Then I want to find out what's really important about this, and we discussed thoroughly with the Committee that's the credit card. There was concern within the committee that this is a competitive position, especially with regard to other aspects of this society that depend on the lifestyle and management of tourism and so on, and surely we need to make sure that we do not skim the competition with this loan of government funds. I believe that this has been done well, has been greatly improved, and is now being made up of special clauses in which borrowing is only allowed to be used by the state's authority to pay the general cost of flying to and from the country. It is forbidden to use the loan to finance business or other means, such as a daughter's partner or in a fixed loan that does not happen in Iceland to and from the country. This is in my opinion, Mr. President, very clear, and I am pleased with the success of the committee's implementation of this important law. In addition, I would like to express my joy with the information that follows the majority opinion, an overview of the basic terms of the state's responsibilities for financial gain. I agree with that with a pilot, dog. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnado, that it is important to bring it as a copy so that everyone can study the terms. There is a transparency in this, so you cannot make any statements that it was not clear or accessible. This is very important, and I express my joy with the success of handling this matter. Then it makes clear how the loan can be obtained. Hopefully it will not need to be pulled back, but it will be two years old until September 2022, after which this passage will be closed, and it will be reimbursed in the next three years. If there is room for business, the company should pay more quickly, and only superpowers will be allowed to speed up this loan with the authority of the State and no other loans. This is well and clearly stated here, so I don't think there's any need to have any doubts about the committee's hard work being very clear and keeping it clear that it's not being here to give the state responsibility in competitive business. Flights to and from the country are very important to us, nationally very important, and a number of jobs are being covered here. All of this is because there has been an economic breakdown in the viral epidemic that no one expected. It is perfectly normal that the wealth of state will try everything to make the future restoration when the Korean virus is going well, and this is an important part of it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u68	A respectable president. I'd like to start with that before we go any further, considering Article 9. In the Code for the Generals, to state that my wife works at Icelanda. There has been a lot of talk here today, and there is always a danger that we drown in the debate over Caesar's beard, some details, details, and so forth. But I think it's right to think, "What are we doing here today? What are we trying to ensure? What interests are we defending in this matter? This wastes everything we've had in the past month or months, but we're ensuring the basic infrastructure of transport to and from our country and the basic interest in it. In other words, we are not buying market interests from shareholders. We are not responsible for those who have invested part-priority over the years. We are ensuring this fundamental benefit. As far as I can hear, everyone who has made a silent call today, as well as in the discussions that have taken place on a financial committee, agrees to ensure this interest, i.e. Transportation to and from the country. Then there have been some of the ways in which we have covered and what the speaker spoke in his talk earlier and some others have been coming in since then. What choice do we have to make in order to secure these interests? It might have been possible to do nothing, let the market handle this, and then just make sure that and then which members of the market might have come in to fly to and from the country, buy the company, let them run out of business, and then see what happened. Buy it, or follow-up from it, at that point. I am convinced that the way here has been chosen, with a state responsibility for a loan that would be the problem course of the company when all other funds were raised, is the cheapest and most dangerous way the government could choose to protect the interests I talked about. We're talking about this coming under way when all other routes had gone. The main points discussed today may be two. The most peculiar conversation I find with one of them, i.e. The bets and guarantees available to us on the Kingdom responsibilities we discuss. I can't say any other than a certain logic, or at least I've had a stroke in the conversation today. It means that in some conclusive way, you can guarantee some kind of 100% debt on the route that is a puzzle plan, which is the last money your partner would have in order to get herself over the difficult hairs that it now needs to climb. If it were so that when all other money was finished, also the new piece of money that the Society is in the starting room to raise at 20◯23 billion dollars, it could put in place 100% of the last money in the long-term resort - if it had 100% guarantees of that money, the last ones - it wouldn't need a federal responsibility over its head. If the Society had 100% responsibility and guarantees for the last few dollars, it would be so attributed to property and well prepared that no state of responsibility would likely be required. It's some kind of terminal that's come up in the discussion today, that it's just some sort of decision-making thing to add to the company's bets. It is not that way that one historian in the case of the first lesser section expressed himself. It is not the government's decision to say that the bets for the last dollar that would be destroyed will be 100%. It is not that way, for we would not be discussing this responsibility in the way we are doing it. With regard to the other thing I would like to mention, which is a great deal of publicity on the Committee, I want to put it in here that, of course, I would like to make it clear that it is not as easy as it is or that it is a personal object for the state to walk in any way responsible for business in a private company. That's why we're talking about this, and that's why we've done it as well as we could at the time we had. What we could call the original bill is a competitive one, i.e. The damage to the matter according to the nature of the case is in this kind of operation for the competition of the requested market. And we realize that the majority of the committee's figures and projections here, that we are not going to hide the fact that there is no such harm or no such consequences in the bill, or primes, as it is. However, we did quite much to minimize that damage, and we made it clear in the case of an authority and of others who have taken note that we changed the matter. We stressed that in the case of this, there is a greater limit to what could be used with the money that would be derived from the state's responsibility that we would achieve more separation than was originally. There's no doubt about it. Thus, it is incomprehensible that this is some kind of open authority and not understood by the State today. On the contrary, the work that was done on the committee guarantees conclusively what it can be used for and what it is not to be used for. I'm not going to go over the discussion by reading it all up. But I would like to make up the last paragraph added. Here is a direct statement, so I now witness in the text: It is... forbidden to make use of the loan to finance business, or to eliminate it in other ways, such as for a daughter's partner in a controlled loan that is not operating in Iceland to and from the country. It is not permitted, and it is highly accepted in this matter. It is forbidden to use this money for a different purpose than the terms given in the terms of the Council case and the company has already undergone. It is simply wrong to claim that their interests and viewpoints are not covered. The committee was particularly critical of this. I simply want to court here at the end of this short talk, on this important and not obvious or easy case, that I believe the state has chosen the most risky, inexpensive, and fastest to the well-defined extent that we all plan to, to ensure basic transportation to and from the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u69	V.E.G. President. We're here on one of two issues, on the one hand, a bill to correct the change in state responsibility law, to disseminate from that law, and on the other, for a bill for a financial addition, a special authority for a minister to give such responsibility. Hv. paritaprevir The test of Þóra's Árnadóttir, the head of the committee, was very well considered by the majority of the committee. I want to come up first and foremost, thank you to a man of good and careful background and thank her for keeping a very serious subject. I'm very careful because it's not easy to accept such a warrant, and it's never to be. At the very least, there must be an abundance of social interests that is behind it. Through our work at the moment. A legal committee reported that much work has been done for months, and the Society has at the same time, such as almost all other tourism companies, had to fight their own existential struggles. A respectable president. There are truly tremendous interests involved in the resistance that must take place here. There are huge interests for the Icelandic economy and for Icelandic society, for a whole industry, and in all of this there are great public interests. As an option analysis reveals, this is the preferred route that carries the least risk for the state's funds, and I feel that it has been the right decision in relation to the risk of taking this careful course. It is crucial that we work from the beginning with clear grounds for the possibility of the coming of the State. I'm not going to take them out, they're going to appear in a committee list, and I'm going to put them on the committee's front, why. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Auradóttir, was very comfortable with this program. I believe that it is important that the terms of responsibility follow the committee opinion, and the committee promoted a change because of a competitive attitude that I consider to be of great importance in making a loan of air traffic to and from the country, as it says. I don't have to reenact the logical support I have. A guide traced here, as has also been shown in the speeches of many people. The members of Congress, that is, in all matters of the proposed stock tenders, say so in view of the way selected. I support the desire to back the company up to a crisis, as if we're actually doing, if plans don't work out, I'm talking about management plans. But we have everything to do with our fighting, and the world begins to travel again. It's the other side, we all hope it will be, and they don't test this support. It simply means that the economy will recuperate and is absolutely essential to the resistance we will all be ready for at that time. Of course, that is in harmony with the way we choose here. This loan is aimed at creating a higher level of security. This should have a positive effect on the intention of investing in a planned stock tender. Then this way is going, as it has been called, going in and out first, for the treasure of the Kingdom. I want to say here that I think it's quite clear here at 2nd. and in the case of most people. Congress is that they support this case on the political issues and on the basis of the systematic importance of the association we are discussing on the basis of authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u70	Mr. President. Here we will discuss a greater portion of the budget on the bill to legalize the state responsibilities and the financial bill by 2020. We face an unpredictable and unprecedented situation because of a pandemic crown virus and all the government's economic actions infringement of the work of the people. 70 years ago, or 1950, some 5,000 foreign tourists applied to us throughout the year. In 1950 the number of tourists in Iceland arrived a year and, on average, has been visiting us in recent years, but foreign tourists in Iceland have been about two million. Travel services in Iceland in recent years have been about 8% of land production. Icelandic air traffic is included in that number, and indeed a major part of the proportion of transport services of national production. I have previously stated from this platform that I doubt that in any other Western country, air traffic is as big as the most important business route in the country. A powerful air traffic system with national headquarters in Iceland and with a network center in Iceland in the middle of the North Atlantic is an enormously important country. By allowing secretary of finance to provide Illelandir Group Corp. For up to 108 million, the debt of debt from the state's funds. The U.S. dollars are responding to the company's income drop, but there has been a complete collapse of world air traffic in recent months. This has been close to 100% in recent years. It is obvious that such an airline is inexorably inexorable. The strong personal position of Icelanda along with the general action of the Icelandic government has made it realistic for the Society to get financial support on the market to face a changed reality. They may be counted globally on the fingers of a man who didn't want government assistance, British, Sweden, and Danir who helped their airlines, and so do Germans. Thousands of employees and their families depend on the company's survival. It is also worth telling you that the company is a key involved when it comes to a fresh fish export to and from the country. When Icelanda's resignations took place last spring, it was the largest group information in history in the country, then over 2,000 employees were dumped and the most impacted on crews, maintenance services, and staff in air and passenger service. The bill is presented as permission for Ministers to provide Illelandir Group Corp. The debt of debt from the state fund of loans due to the company's income drop in relation to a pandemic crown virus. It is assumed that the total debt of the state's funds could be studied up to 180 million. U.S. dollars or up to 15 billion dollars. Compared to the U.S. dollar gang at the bill input. The bill submitted to the council shows that there is reason for such an action that is expected to be significant in financial scope and extremely selective. As a result of Iceland's geographic situation, it is necessary to ensure safe and continuous transport for the transport of goods and goods. Then there is the importance of international travel, where the activities of Illelands have made a very basic translation, rapidly increasing in recent years. A major basis for the growth and survival of all other tourist attractions has been the result of the bus transport of the company. It can be said, therefore, that for a substantial amount of social interests, as well as a very significant financial advantage for a number of employees and companies. Furthermore, the text of the bill, by permission of the president, is: ▪ In the beginning of the process that has led to the search of the People's warrants to give the State's responsibility on a loan line to Illelandir, it was felt that the basis for such an act would be clearly laid. The establishment of the state of responsibilities or access to loans has been subject to the following key users: 1st The need for the arrival of the Kingdom in order to ensure a safe and intact flight to and from the land. 2. To ensure that there is an aerospace driver who is actively involved in economic resistance at the time. 3. Long-term competitiveness and competitiveness are guaranteed. 4. That the public funds and risks of the State will be limited to those who serve public interests, but they do not aim to protect the interests of shareholders or creditors. As above, support for the Society depends on the assessment that it served the clear public interest of defending public funds to support the Society. As a result, the administration of the government depends on achieving sufficient success in the financial reorganization of the Society in accordance with the programmes that have been introduced, including to raise new shares.How much money can you buy? In the work of a financial committee, there was much discussion that if the loan lines made with the State responsibilities were to be passed only to the Icelandar Group, Icelanda's daughter, thus limiting flights to and from the country so that it would be sure that the loan line of government responsibility would not be set aside for other Icellandar's daughters of the Group. To a considerable extent, the work of the legal committee has been centered on this aspect over the past few weeks. I wanted to quote the chapter in the Committee's list of parts that address these factors, a chapter entitled State Accountable on Credit: It has been discussed with the Committee whether the terms of the condition are sufficiently guaranteed for the state responsibility of the loan line to Icelanda Group Corp. that the funds from it do not flow to any other business of the Icellands Group Corp. ... butflying. That the initiative of the Commission has adopted this to the organization, which has confirmed that it was a common understanding for each member to lend a loan line with the State's responsibility solely to support the airline's aircraft, not any other business. The Society has agreed on its share, resulting in the approval of the General Assembly to give the state responsibility, that in the final agreements on government loan lines, money from the loan line will be reserved only to cover the general budget associated with the flying of Icelandar Group Corp. in accordance with the management plan of the Society. In addition, it will be specifically stated that the loan is to be used as a means of financing or otherwise considered for a daughter's partner in a controlled non-flying loan in Iceland. The updated terms of the carton are a package leaflet with regard to this and some changes have been made in terms of terms called: the limited use of loans. The terms of the divorce are as follows: Remuneration should only be allowed to make use of loans per the contract in order to account for the general cost of operating related to loan management to and from the country in accordance with the company's management programme. The overall cost of operating is considered to be high. pay and pay-related fees, management, rent, other labour-related fees, contracting and interest pay in accordance with management programmes, oil prevention for trade and services transactions, reimbursement for clients, and regular maintenance. The loan is not allowed to be used to finance business, or otherwise used, such as a daughter's partner in a controlled loan that does not happen to be a pilot in Iceland to and from the country. I would like to express my satisfaction with the findings of the case and the work of a budget board, how it has been done to the changes in the majority opinion and in the terms involved in the opinion. I believe that with these changes, it is entirely meet with the opinion of the budgetors on the limitation of loans by state responsibility. This operation by the government will provide a powerful antidote for the economic effects of a pandemic crown virus. The big film is my opinion of the worst advantage in discussing the complex and difficult situation we have here. This is an enormously complex issue, and there are many variables and many factors to take. When things begin to improve, which hopefully will be late winter or spring, but I have strong faith that they will. Then the resistance will be more powerful with the strong airline of Icelanda. As I mentioned, travel services may be about 8% of the domestic product, and in recent years tourists have been about two million. If calculated in the mind, there are 500,000 foreign tourists at 2% of their land production. We discussed the financial policy here a few days ago and we were agreeing to it, but it shows up, and people have the opportunity to study it in the paper, that there is a loss of production in the community, and that is the case in financial policy. I believe tourism and intensive air management will be the fastest way to achieve the expected loss of production in financial policy to 2022. There are two relevant risk factors, if this project is identified; the restoration of Icelanda and the duration of the Covid-19 pandemic, and the subsequent travellery of the people. The situation in the United States is then a problem. The United States is a large part of Icelanda's operation in connection with the operation of the Contact Centre. In my opinion, this is the most risky way of choosing, I agree with the views that have been presented in the work of the Committee. If the State became a large part - time body member of the society, there would be tremendous risks for the State. In the end, I want to thank you. A prominent member of the Commission on this matter, why. Árnadóttir For her work and for the whole committee for the fine work of the past nine days, this big, complicated task we've been up to has been doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u71	A respectable president. It's a huge deal. We're discussing state responsibility for a private company. When such issues are presented here at the council, they are not necessarily. I'm telling you clearly: If it weren't for this situation, I wouldn't be coming up here in a pit to explain my position. It would simply be: No. But I can't afford to act like that because circumstances are in such a way that we have to go over systematically how we approach things. You can't take it out with a clean no, just from the point of view, that the state should not run for it with a private company. We do so because of these unique, unprecedented circumstances, and we members of the Parliament, both in government and government, are under obligation to do so. There is much to say about this. I want to draw it out, so people understand that the government and the government have had the case for more than five months. Senators, especially from government opposition, have had only a few days to cover an enormously important issue involving nationally important activities that we need to keep alive. We need a ready flow in and out of the country. It's in the middle of nowhere right now. We were just hearing that today Icellands canceled 17 or 18 flights, and that illustrates the situation. We have been introducing our proposals to deal with the crisis, the huge emergency problem we now face. We have criticized the government, and not just for not wanting to have a conversation with us, a conversation with the nation, about why it leads to its decision - making, with tremendous consequences. It has also not provided sufficiently clear economic measures for our people and our companies to respond and to the challenge of very intense disease prevention. The closure of the 15th - August border has exactly an impact, including this case. The government's single state will be tighter. As a result, our abilities are reduced. As the government said A came automatically B. It's more likely than the other, there has to be a way of dealing with state responsibilities, looking to Icellands. But it's not by itself, and I've tried to cross it systematically by myself how to justify it to be at least not against this matter. As I mentioned earlier, the importance of taking immediate action that will temporarily justify increased government spending has been emphasized by our restoration. This helps people to hold on to their hope and gives them the opportunity to make a full impression on what hopefully will happen sooner than later. The same goes for the companies. We saw in the summer that traveling service was more than predicted, and people had hoped. Tourism, this important industry, has shown that it will soon get us out of the economic problems we will face during this loss and the next few years. Tourism will play a key role there. It also means, just as we saw in the summer, that we have to be ready for a company that can react if a vaccine is found earlier. It is quite likely that it will not be until the middle of the next year, according to the latest news from the World Health Organization. But there may also be something to break into sooner. It makes me feel important that we are ready, and then we simply have to look to Icelanda. Is that what it is? No, once again. We know that Wazz Air has a problem, a company that has taken care of some 30,000,400,000 people living in Iceland by flying to at least 30,400,000 people. Ten different places. We also know there's a company in preparation, Play, that could possibly jump in and do something, at least to begin with, for us Icelanders or the people who live here. I don't think we should underestimate how much knowledge comes with the nation's company for years and decades, how much knowledge, human culture, and experience have been built there. This is important when we need to get started right away. That's when inside is important. Iclanders are classified as systematicly important structures, just to push us out of the economic difficulties we are in and will face in the coming years. There's an airline that plays an important role, and here we are. I have to say, when we were in charge of the anti - anti - administrative committees along with a financial committee, I was given a presentation in the language a little over a week ago, and I didn't really care for the tinge. It announced the need to set aside laws on the state of responsibility because they did not discard the environment we are discussing today, did not throw away the company. That's when the alarm sounded. Why Step aside the rules of principle? Form rules, as boring as they can be, serve public interests by providing a measure of security. They're following local regulations that protect the public interest. In this case, Icelanders are being asked normal questions about the payment of an enterprise, the payment of a debt. They're checking to see if the possible government responsibility will not rock the boat when it comes to competition. When such rules are turned aside - even more so because of our poor experiences in Iceland when we have given a Kingdom responsibility - it has been shown that it has not given up particularly well. Instead, they sound certain warning bells. They tell me that this particular case may not be able to meet the strict conditions, the protocols of state responsibility, and that this particular need to be done. That does not mean that, after more than five months, the government would throw the case over to us and say, "We need to be done with this chain, boom, bang, bang, one, two, three." It is at such times that we see the importance of the political, political, and collective role of the council. I would like to give special commendation to the work of the legal committee in this case. There's been very careful review of a number of tips on the case I bring here and which have been directed to the Committee. They all have not been met, but many have been. And people are taking care of what is natural about this difficult step. I don't feel that there have been enough clear answers to why the laws on Kingdom responsibilities are being turned aside. It's also a feature of the case, and, in fact, all the issues we're dealing with Covid, that the government isn't going straight. She doesn't just say things the way they are. There's much more trouble in telling people why the situation is difficult, why things are so and queer rather than trying to hide them with some sort of premium. An example of this is to be taken when we hear independents repeatedly say that the State is only involved because some private people in the town are to be resolved. They think of the pension fund as a private. I disagree that Iceland's pension fund can be viewed as a private employee who can just come and sort things out. Pension funds have been placed in a particular straitjacket. No matter how much denial men try to wear, they've been put in a straitjacket. Me and the Icelanders are the only nation in the world that in the time of Covid, has gone to sea, has a currency head, or has made an investment. The pension fund is made to invest here at home, and there's not much on investment opportunities right now. They are directed to this channel, and then we simply have to talk openly about it. Do we want the pension fund to have this responsibility? Do we want to see that after some loss - and, of course, we hope that it will not be bad - there may be some debate about the need to cut the rights of the pensions of certain pensioners because this decision was made? Is it not more pure to go to work and try to say: The Kingdom is responsible for this, and the taxpayers, all the future taxpayers, are responsible for this, instead of laying the burdens on the pensioners and employees of the country? These are my questions. Besides, it's only foolish to hear members of the Independence Party, especially, come here in their anguish and up to that dogma and say, "No, the state banks are just independent of banks in town. " We know that the state of the Lands Bank and Iceland Bank. They guarantee the loan, they guarantee up to 6 billion. All the people own the banks, which means that the State comes directly or indirectly to the case. I'd like us to look to the Northlands. Consider how Dan and Sweden solved their approach to the SAS. Nordea Bank and other banks refused to make access to sales insurance, and it was worked with it. It is clear that there are countries entering and if the stock tenders are well served, their share will grow little, but still up to about 35◯37%, and may rise to up to 80%. I wondered why it is simply not stated exactly who the State is. I'd also like to draw attention to the fact that since there are a way of putting aside laws about state responsibility, putting aside certain ideals - I can well conclude that other routes are now being taken by discussing state responsibility toward the Icelands due to circumstances - why don't we talk about other public interests in relation to the case, and then try to use this journey to stress the formation of a giant society that we may be going to give the state responsibility, according to general standards? That it will not blow up the rules of ethics, rules of conduct, and communication that we have experienced in a labour market in recent years. I've told you before that I'm not gonna take sides on the prenuptial flight attendants, the pilot, etc. ... intheunstuffthat'sbeen. But I was not particularly happy when under difficult circumstances, trying to blow through the work - market rules. I didn't think that was a lot of respect. I also wondered, as if to form a beard. paritaprevir The Roa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjordsdóttir has gone so well, why the climate issues are not new and put forth demands on climate protection and climate protection during the state's trip with the company. It's as if the government is a little special, in all the emergency procedures we're about to take on the climate. I would have liked to see a similar route, a friendly tip, or a demand that we take a similar route to Angela Merkel and her government to Lufthansa, that we had a new trip in an effort to fit into the most public interest box. That's where I come to the competition. It is quite surprising that the government - and that's why I want to thank the work on a financial committee - has allowed me to make the decision without having spoken to the Contestance Commission or getting an opinion on it. Did the government fear that this would be the case, such as when the Contestant Board sent a review of the media, and the government did nothing to it when it came to paying out the volume to the media? Perhaps the media needed strength that is most loyal to the government at this time. As always, competitive affairs do not seem to be high on the table of the government. Many people on the market warned about this, e.g. travel agencies and those with run a fireworks, et cetera. Of course, it would have come up immediately if the government had been ready to talk about how to do things well. Because we want it to work. We want us to be ready to fight back in due time. We need a powerful airline to ensure that travel services - because they are the motor force we need in order to get us out of the economic problems we are in - and all support is available. Of course, the biggest support is flying. I also watch this case so that we have to do everything we can in this strange, temporary state to provide oxygen to the people and to the homes of the country, but also to the companies, including. The company we've had very good experience with. And I'm stressing that we need to be careful that what we get through human resources, experience and knowledge that has been built up for years in the company. It's quite vivid, though it was one Mass worth -- and I supported it -- to cross the situation when WOW hit last year, when they were just a different kind of thing. Then a plane was let go. This would have happened if the Icelanda had been the same. If so, we would not be in that position. Then I wouldn't be getting off the red button to the yellow one. In view of the circumstances we face, we can be justified in discussing these matters. But it is hardly possible to justify the way the government dealt with the issue on its own with regard to competitiveness, public interests, which included. involved in climate, employment markets, and other activities. I don't think it's well that after all the time the government has had the case on board. Rather than discussing supporting the Society, it is not possible to do so now. I will not resist it in the light of circumstances. I will not oppose it in view of the fact that I have made a positive change under the leadership of those on the budget. There questions were asked, and in part they were answered. But it saddens me to see once again a matter that could have been so much better prepared if a conversation and discussion had taken place. Once more, we will see that if we had talked more and more together, we might have gained greater solidarity over such a large matter that is related to our being able to get out of the challenges we are in and into a fight and excitement. It has proved true that the government has done well. She has stuck her feet in the ark and helped when her hands were in great need. It has helped to change bad things into better matters. She has helped with good business and challenges that have had meaning for the people and companies. There are many things to criticize the government, but the situation needs to be treated, and I believe the situation has improved. It is vital to discuss. The matter has improved and improved in the affairs of the council. I want to make it clear that thanks to the legislature, it's in better shape than before.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u72	Madam President. Tonight, we make a big decision. It is not every day that a body of Congress decides whether to support individual private companies, let alone 15 billion dollars. That's a lot of money. If we put it in context, this is the same amount of money as the state puts each year in cultural and juvenile affairs or the equivalent of the state's annual productions to innovation, which the government's been eager to give high priority on. This is not just any company, though. Icelanders are a long - lived association, have been a big employer, and an important link in the country's transportation. Likely, there are few Icelanders who do not believe in Icelanda and who have not flown often with their company abroad. So it is not easy for us in The Piranha to vote against giving Iclands the 15 billion bucks. State responsibility. It is said that well - thought - out, too many strong reasons to argue that this is the best solution to the situation. We believe there are better ways to protect the most important; to ensure flight transport, to manage public funds, to reduce the loss of the pension fund, and to protect the workers of Icelanda. There is no need to look beyond the estimates on which the government route is based. The uncertainty that surrounds flights in the time of the crown virus and its sequeling simply makes them unfaithful. Not only are flight crews very insecure but the views of the analysts are very divided. On the contrary, Mckinsey observes that it can easily be said that it will not be until 2027. In fact, IATA, the International Traffic Administration Agency on which Iclelands base their predictions, has become pessimizing about flying. This uncertainty alone provides reasons for careful distribution of 15 billion of public funds. In addition, it is safe to say that if the prospects of Illelands were actually as good as those taken out of there, Iclands would not need a state of responsibility to persuade investors. The premiums of the invitation are to have state responsibility for the loan line that the Society holds to the bank and on top of it, President, the bank banks have guaranteed the sale of up to 6 billion dollars. All of this is done to sell even more of the stock in the company, and the buyers to whom Icellands tend to be the pension fund. That's how the whole plan is to try to get more public money in, whether it's from state funds through the bank or from the pension fund and then put it to the crew to keep the company floating. I don't like the use of public money, and it's too risky for the public. Of course, it would be most successful and wishful of the stock market to go without the presence of the State and society being able to keep their own fleet. That would be the best possible conclusion. Even if not, however, the State may be ready to intervene. If it seemed that the Society was headed for bankruptcy, the state might intervene and have a dominant share in the company, e.g. by buying out the pension fund. Thus the losses of the public could be limited by the missing funds and then provided the necessary funds to ensure flight transport to and from the country. How long this arrangement would be in effect is incomprehensible. This could last a short time if the company had a very poor financial situation and while another airline was starting a business. But it may also last a little longer, and the company may even qualify after that. The decision about the future would then be in the hands of the government to agree with the general public. During the past few months, Icelanda's managers will not be overlooked. If the government wants to take a stand with the employees or to have a general respect for its recipients, then this 15 billion responsibility must be given with a certain unpleasant taste in the mouth. It was the executives of Icelanda to work hard to reduce pay and impair the rights of their employees, who have taken decades to build up. And when women's group refused to succumb to the terror control of their superiors, they made it simple and really unscrupulous to divulge all flight attendants and threatened to negotiate with another union while the band was still on the table of state fairs. President. What if Social Affairs finds that the Society has offended the airline? Will the government support the Society after such a rebuke? It also matters what message it sends out to society if the State accepts state responsibility for Icellands at this point. Public funds to Icelland have been maintained over the last few decades and have gone to the club since the Covid epidemic broke out in this country, with a significant impact on the economy. Now, when general action has not been sufficient, special action will be carried out on the condition of the State Fund. President. In the collapse, there was a policy not to use public funds to save falling corporations. The banks were dropped, but the state ensured their basic operation. What Has Changed? What's different now? Why don't we go that way again? President. Alman's money is not a reserve for an enterprise that's badly with its own resources. It's not a reserve for a company who's going to rely on a monopoly position and give the public reason to put a rock in the street of competition. The public money is not supposed to contribute to the starving policy for staff and fair policy for consumers. The government has prided itself on using the political spectrum, offering the best from the political left and right wings, but the government's state - of - answer route combines the worst in both political wings, the privatizing of profits, and the establishment of the loss. Of course, we're members of Porta's Congress, of course, votes against this state responsibility, but at the same time, we hope the very best for the Society and seek the best results for the public in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u73	Mr. President. Here we will discuss two prime products, one of which is a budget for the loan to the Icelanda, and another bill to legalize a change of state responsibility, where the law is turned aside in the case of the subject of the state's responsibilities discussed here. I see these matters quite differently. When the state enters and supports Icellands and defends that fall, it may be the most wise way to maintain transportation around the world. I suppose we've also become so accustomed to some huge figure that I feel like 15 billion commitments are not insanely high compared to the fact that on the spring, we were serving 60 billion packs and 230 billion others. This amount may more closely reflect the problem of Icelandic society and, therefore, a member of the community's infrastructure, is large. I'm not going to spend much time with the budget bill as such. However, I would like to talk, as I did with the first issue. This matter, how dangerous it may be to set aside laws about Kingdom responsibility just when tests should be made. You see, the law has the responsibility to protect government interests and the public by making sure that responsible people have provided appropriate guarantees that if things go wrong, the State will not be harmed financially. This stipulates a process in which the State responsibilities fund values the plan, a professional assessment of whether the programmes of the company are practical and whether the risks taken by the state's funds are acceptable. This was pointed to the day the bill was recommended, in a review received by the Government Accounting. National Research specifically pointed out that the assets the bill assumes as a guarantee are that if the worst measures are involved, they are very likely to live up to requirements that could study up to 15 billion dollars. This is discussed in the Commission study of the greater section, which says, by permission of the president: ▪ The more valuable part believes that worth money is difficult to place on, but it still feels that the name and brand of the company, as well as the accounting systems, are valuable. Just as there is little value to be considered to be of little value, so it is. It's simply not possible to say. Indeed, according to State Review, it is, by permission of the President, the decision to evaluate, except through a thorough assessment by specialised members of the Member States. Therefore, the National Reconnaissance cannot evaluate the value of bets from outside. This, however, is exactly what the Statety Fund could do. He could come to the council and say that this bet might be worth 15 billion commitments, or he would come back and say that it was a pledge of nothing to be found. It has repeatedly pointed out, not just by members of Congress, but through reviews, that one possibility is that if things go the wrong way, the government's funds would actually become part of the union, because if they do, the pledges that are worthless. The stocks could be very low, but they were worth something and would be tools for the state to step in and secure this business, because at the end of the day it is always about the operation for which Icelanda lives, to ensure transportation to the outside world. The laws are turned aside with this reasoning in the bill's report, with the permission of a president: ▪ Is this because laws for state responsibility apply primarily when the state's funds provide responsibility for individual projects or actions, but not when it is being given special economic support to companies due to outside circumstances such as a pandemic. This is exactly what the Committee saw in the majority section, pointing to other responsibilities adopted by the Allied Council in connection with the epidemic, responsibilities not directed against individual companies but, rather, some kind of unfilled check into travel responsibilities, support loans, and loans, to seize those enterprises that meet certain conditions there. The bill to the law says, if we look at the report on the support loans, we're going to allow the President: ▪ There are laws on state responsibilities, No. 11/1997, does not apply to government funds on support loans according to the bill. These laws apply primarily when a government fund is responsible for individual projects or actions, but not when afforded general economic support for enterprises. Mr. President. We hear that these texts are called on, but it is interesting that in the case of the bill we address today, laws on state responsibility are not appropriate when it is being given a special economic support for companies. But here in the spring months, they were not appropriate when general economic support was given to companies. It's interesting to me if the law just doesn't apply or if it doesn't apply to the state responsibility that the Congress deals with at any time. This is very shocking because laws on State responsibilities are set in order to ensure public interest and to ensure that although the full evidence may be in support of national employment through such activities, even by some specific measures in certain circumstances, it is reasonable to believe that it is done according to the general rules and that it is under careful consideration. That is what the State Accounting Act should guarantee. The last few decades ago, I have a part from a committee study that was discussed at a council meeting when the legislation was adopted to vouch for the funding of the new Icelandic genetic analysis. Then it was so fun that the laws on Kingdom responsibilities were turned aside for another reason. We have mentioned these two, which are not relevant when giving general support or special support, but in 2002 they were not relevant for the following reason, by permission of the president: It is not specifically expected to allow public responsibilities in the field of research and development projects in the law of No. 121/1997, end of general law. It was only five years of age, so it is difficult to say that they were missing, as it seems to be today. But this is a concern because in these days, when governments are supposed to put the country through a historic storm, they need the gauges of the bridge, they're just running blindly into it. A trust fund is one of the mothers to benefit from this situation. Finally, I would like to mention just a few things that have been presented in a few cases, and in various comments also, that it could be so easily used and presented as such support, this tremendous financial support, to something, to some change, by the fact that Icelanda, who arise from these difficulties, will become more solid and better, an environmentally stable company, a company that doesn't try to make money for workers. This tremendous support could provide a variety of conditions so that the company will be better after Covid than before. It always surprises me so much that the government, and then perhaps the Independence Party, is so strongly opposed to such conditions, as if this is the most radical idea in the world, when the whole world has just come to this very place. We hear a call from all international institutions, most of which are driven by political brothers of the Independence Party, for example, to require a build-up scholarship to Covid in that they serve other goals. combating human climate change or supporting the progress of any other world objective of the United Nations. It is as if the Icelandic right has not received the memo from the international right block because it is all there. The independent group of Icelandics is still playing after decades of material instruction manuals, stuck in some credit system where the State cannot get stock in a company that the State is supporting with 15 billion of public funds, where the government cannot give the support that the company will share in building up a future community. It is not surprising, however, that this situation exists when it is not the independent group that controls everything, or it should not be that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u74	Mr. President. First of all, I want to say that this discussion here today is about this matter, or the two topics that are discussed have been very interesting. When large, extensive, complex, and complex operations exist, it is now usually the middle party's will that they be discussed well and long and carefully. It's the same with the work we have here today. It was basically through this discussion that I began to wonder what the political role is, like the ones now ruling. Fortunately, Mr. President, we do not have to cope each day with tasks, problems, and other problems that no one can foresee, and in many ways underlie our existence in so many ways, so we may not get used to getting used to the situation that some external threat, in this case invisible, can affect all of us as much as we do here. Then I come to the role of politics in this unprecedented situation. It is trying to ensure by all means that when this situation is over, and we have hope that the situation will be resolved in a very long time, not that it will be badly damaged by society's foundations that it cannot begin to work fully or with any force immediately. Hence, it is important to try to be supportive of basic work systems in such a way that when things are over, they will be able to take over immediately and make the best of the situation. I'm going to be so optimistic, Mr. President, to say it and I've said it before, after that few, because it's going to end, Iceland will be in an ideal position because the virus in itself has not played society badly. The government has been very careful about this epidemic, as far as possible. True, I've criticized that now, when we're about to accept the state responsibility of loans or loans to Iceldas at 15 billion dollars, the government has a roundabout policy to limit the same group's ability to sail through this storm. It's a very specific subject. Unfortunately, this is not the only case, Mr. President, with which the government has made it uncertain, unworked, unconcerned, and always comes through at the last minute. But as Mr. President well knows, the government is very lucky with government opposition. In the country, there is a government opposition that has shown great responsibility throughout the process and will likely continue to do so. Men have largely resisted the temptation to strike down horsemen at the expense of the present government because of the situation. I hope that goes on, too. Mr. President. The issue we now have is probably not the last case, unfortunately, that we need to take firmly until this epidemic is over. You will probably need to make serious proposals for companies, especially, for example. In tourism and related articles, it is possible to lie down in a kind of hibernation and wake up again when the years are better. Therefore, it may also be what needs to be said here now because it seems that this matter will soon be successful because everyone here is responsible. I hope that this and what is already past will not be done, Mr. President, that the government will walk in order and continue to waive into the council, which is unsettled, badly worked, and will arrive at the last minute. I certainly hope so, and I truly hope that the government will now begin to have the good fortune to listen to what the government has to offer in various matters. It seems that the cases that have already been handled have improved in the treatment of committees, committees, and committees, e.g. As in this case, there is a clean example. All of us have worked hard to resolve this matter as soon as possible and in the most difficult way possible. Various people have come forward and said that it is not a defence that the government guarantees loans to a private company on the market. But then we have to watch, Mr. President, what we've done in the past few years to support work in both the country and elsewhere. What has the council done? I have one example. A few years ago, it was designed to put on $4 billion of government money, not on responsibilities, but directly from the state box, to drill through the Húsavík Head to help transport and deportation for what was then called the highest standard. President of the medium to appear on Backka. Besides this, there were also several billion government bills in staff training and other things. Now, I'm not going to abuse it, Mr. President, I'm just pointing out that the state of state has at any given time also shown inquisitive technology and, fortunately, innovation to promote the growth of such companies, sceptre companies and others. Why should we agree that the state guarantees 15 billion dollars? A loan for Illelands? I'd like to put it up in a few ways, Mr. President. First, what has the company done to promote themselves in these difficult situations and to ensure that, as before, it is possible to do their job? Yes, the company has made a deal with all trade unions and creditors, which has been negotiated with an airplane dealer for both their company's benefits and not having to accept any six machines, if I recall correctly, that had been ordered before. This has been done and worked very hard to reorganize financially. The company, as far as I know, has not been applying and/or getting some rundown loans but has extended loans so that they can cope better with the changing company's income models. I heard you in one sledgehammer. A senator here today who said: "Why should we secure this Society's money? A friend who may be worth five billion, as I recall. A senator said. All right, let's just assume that the company is now worth 5 billion in the middle of a epidemic with a 90,000 -95% reduction in transport income, and then we ask ourselves: " What will be the value of the company if it reaches perhaps a third of these revenues and transports so that the contractions will no longer last, but perhaps 653/470 percent, and the revenues will be worth it all the other way, and the business will be very different when these things are gone? I think we should look there, Mr. President. We should not look at the situation just as it is today. Unfortunately, it is this way, so I press the government again, that this government does not see far ahead of the road, and it may be best yesterday when the council agreed with the government's Council to extend a two - month settlement. People's concerns are being extended. Instead of taking a longer period of six to nine months, people's concerns are being extended for two months. I don't think that's a way of managing things, Mr. President. I don't think that's farsighted, and I don't think it's courageous. If the government had, for example. Read some suggestions offered by the Central Party in the spring and later, perhaps she would have come to realize that it is possible to do so and to offer suggestions that go much further into the future. It is also an observation in this matter, when we face the issue of whether we want to guarantee a loan to this company, to watch the state of its rivals, the next of their rivals. That's how, Mr. President, as the President knows, because he's a keen man, that rivals like SAS, Lufthansa, and Norway were applying for financial support. The last member claims to have had 91% contractions. I have quoted earlier in a speech, I believe that even Germany, Mr. President, who are now not greedy of throwing public funds on both hands, began to gain 20% from the Lufthansa airline. We choose this way, to guarantee a loan of 15 billion rather than a state of society as owner. Why? Yes, if things go wrong, there's a chance that some of the money that has been added to the company will be back in line when it comes to paying off the company. In turn, the state takes a pledge on the company logo and on the landing cover of the one that is well meant to mark at the best spot, both at the Heathrow airport in London and in New York, and is certainly of great value. It has also been said that others could run into the gap for the company and pick up the signal and transport it to and from the country. It may well be true that we play competition with this. I don't think so, though. The Icelandic competition will probably show up -- probably not the major competition show, but the societies I mentioned earlier, these foreign societies - but in the previous fly, if I remember correctly, 60 companies to Cheflavík during the summertime. Then there is another reason: Why should we guarantee this company's business? It has been very popular in this discourse to say that the Society is systematicly important. Yes, I can accept that even though I find myself bored with that sort of labels. What do we want to ensure? Last year 4,700 well - educated, well - trained workers were employed. In their training and knowledge, there is riches that would likely be scattered if this society were to survive. It has also been said that the Society's planes are up to date. Anyone arriving at the maintenance station of Iccelanders at Keflavík Airport should assure himself of the maintenance of aircraft. It's completely first-class and to imitate and to be exemplary for others. There is also manor, Mr. President, well-trained, well- educated, which is to ensure that these machines are safely passing through. We could also mention that Iclinda's daughterhood -- now we're not talking about sponsoring a daughter's group - is making themselves very relevant in the training of pilots in military training, and now we've seen three aircraft species and we're in our own business, both to earn it and, of course, to keep pilots' intelligence on it and to make sure that they're as well trained as we can choose. And what are we to ensure, Mr. President? Yes, we are ensuring passenger transport by means of a network built up by decades of service and knowledge. They say and say, "It's no problem for this company to disappear. " New replacements for landing permits here and where there's no time. I think I'm right about it, Mr. President, that it took WOW air at its time, which now is no longer there, about Three years to get landing clearance in the United States, so I don't think this is quite as simple as the company's system has made sure we're in better transport, such as. We America, but many other countries in Europe. There are many more places to fly from here to there, and so are the legs of Europe. It is being ensured that there are very many places and places to travel from here to there and other locations to which others live. Then I am not beginning to mention what may have been the light in the dark for this month's society and the light in the darkness for us too, i.e. for the export of this nation, which is the transfer of the Society on fresh products, both the west and the east across the sea. Since we now aim to produce much more fresh products, especially in fish farms, it is extremely important that this aspect of society not rest on and work on. In all of this respect, Mr. President, I would like to state that political projects in this situation are to ensure that all society has the least harm, both those of the least have and those who are better off, and that companies will be equipped to provide employment. We need a job because there's probably going to be a lot of unemployment here, unfortunately, for the next six months at least. And it is our job to make sure that society all manages to survive this shock as strong as possible. I think, Mr. President, that ensuring the function of this systematicly important group, so I'm now taking under the label, is one factor in doing exactly that. Therefore, the Central Party will surely support this matter when it comes to votes here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u75	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on bill to legalize the commitment of pension insurance laws and pension funds, No. 129/1997. I refer to this brief review of visitors. The bill contains the sources of the pension fund to invest in deportations so that decommissioning is not appropriate when detriment involves buying or buying rights. For the sake of the bill, it should be clear. The majority suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under what does the Bible refer to "the faithful and discreet slave "? And the residue of Bristur the son of Níelsson, and Brutti, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, and Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Willum Þór the son of Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u76	Mr. President. Icelanders are in trouble. Icelanders is a systematicly important company which thousands of employees and hundreds of companies rely on. The union wants to protect these interests, but also the interests of the public and the competition. We would have chosen to secure better the interest of taxpayers in this 15 billion dollars. U.S. government help. It's unmistakably that insurance for the loan will not work. So we would have wanted to examine much more fully the possibility of a government to be able to, for example. change the loan into stock or let the government pledge it. We would also have wanted to make more sure that the owners of Icelanda, the present or the future, were not to be attributed to taxes. We also want government support companies to take large, measurable green steps in their business. This is not done in this case. To say, we hope that Icelanda will return to flight and transport to the outside world will be ensured. [[The president calls.]] So we do not take sides, but it is the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u77	Mr. President. This is a suggestion to support an important company, but this is also talking about a lot of money, and that's the public's money. We would have liked to examine more ways than, where this is only available, we would have also wanted to see more conditions, more bets, bets against proposals and supers, that there will be Icelandic rights and that the company's climate policy will be established. The government has been putting this matter into practice all summer without our being present, but then the last days of the council are held captive. I believe, therefore, that the government itself is responsible for this case and will not support it, but will sit by.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u78	A respectable president. Both can be true, that the stock market is a good, secure investment, and that it is a bad idea for a government fund to interfere with. More than that, it should be that way. If plans are good and the stock market is a good investment, the State should stay out of it. Now is not the time for the treasure of the Kingdom to interfere. It may be if the stock market fails, but not until then. If all plans succeed, it certainly is not government to confuse them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u79	Mr. President. From the beginning of an unforeseen situation brought about by a pandemic, government's economic actions have been aimed at protecting people's work. That has even been true. Plans are being made to support commercial enterprises and to prevent economic failures because of the circumstances. This matter which we are about to vote on, to give the Illelands Group Corp. The debt of debt from the treasure of the state is certainly one of those matters. It is hoped that this warrant may not be required, but if necessary, the public funds and the risks of the State will be limited to those who serve the public interests of clear rules and conditions. These conditions are available, and all can study them and see that there are conditions that will follow if tests arise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u80	Mr. President. When we take this matter into consideration, it is important that we keep our goals clear in our mind. The aims have been very clear in the eyes of the government; that in this country, there is a powerful airline with national bases, as a work in the Icelandic labour market, and that may become a powerful party in the resistance industry when transportation to and from the country is back to normal. Likewise, to choose a way that minimizes the risk of state funds and maximises social benefits. I believe this case serves them aims. I also believe that a very good job was done by the General and the Fundament Committee in the treatment of the case here at the council. I'll support this case because I think it's for the sake of public interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u81	A respectable president. First, let me mention specifically that it is not possible for the council to handle such a matter, and that it will be as short as it really is. It is the strength of the Generals to be able to do so even if there are conflicting views, and this makes them enjoyable. I would also like to mention, in particular, that many countries, many governments, did not have exactly any time, but because the company had financial strength at the beginning of this crisis, we have had time. I believe we have used him well to minimize risks for the state funds in this case. It reveals that we have said: It is not the government to pass judgment on the company's management plans. The market itself must render the court of the present stock market. Other than that, the company has been doing its work. Given that all these programs are going to work out, which the market must give an answer to whether he believes in, it won't be a test of state responsibility, but it's there if things get worse. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u82	A respectable president. Piranians oppose the way of the government to give their State responsibilities. We think it's a classic example of private interest, but the state of the world's losses. We believe this is gambling with the public pension fund, with the bank funds and government funds or public funds and taxpayers. We believe that Iclinada's plans will be based on the lack of competition in the Icelandic air market. It's different if this playhouse doesn't work. In this way, we've built up a government fund for the government, against a healthy competition for a commercial flying market in Iceland because it's going to go to the loan line. It's a very bad thing for the next government, but it's likely to float this thing for the next election. I think it's a very risky and highly irresponsible treatment of public funds. We're saying no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u83	President. Here's a basic and basic political question. The rationale for the intervention seems to be twofold; the company's income loss, which it certainly is not responsible for now, and the importance of the company systematically and nationally. That the evidence that the Kingdom is entering in at this time does not mean that we will take responsibility to examine the steps we are taking and how it is done. Much of this company's capital has been social funds. There are also public interests. It is the fact that the government falls. In this way, people in the community are supposed to take great risks and risks than other investors. Other transactions would have made the game more equal and just in my mind than the way it draws up here. That's why I can't support this way. The setting of these preparations, even though the circumstances are what they are, is that way I simply cannot support it and will not vote for it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u84	A respectable president. It's a huge deal. It does not necessarily mean that the government steps in and renders state responsibility for a private company. This case was originally neglected in my opinion, despite the fact that the government had a long time to prepare it. It was contrary to competitive policy, the budget fixed it. We're in unprecedented times, we know, and we need to have a company that can take us somewhere unexpected right away into a circle, which we hope will be as soon as possible. The company has human resources, knowledge and experience. It contains valuables that we need to support and ensure. It is worth considering, however, how the government has prepared this matter without a complete or complete agreement with the government or with the rest of the community and how the government is approaching a basic prince for competition, public interest, climate issues, etc. [[The president calls.]] That's why I can't support this. That's right, so I can go to the yellow button because of the government's hand kickbacks.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u85	A respectable president. We here deal with interests that are enormous in national context and about companies that have led to the development of tourism for decades, as it were. The government and the government groups can easily shoulder the responsibility themselves, which is part of the decision being made here. How thrilling it is to listen to the language of many whales! Councilmen, to form the chairman of a restoration that comes up and talks about these matters in the way they do. It's good to remember that she supported her national responsibilities for a company called decode. [[Foreground on: No.]] Didn't you? [[The point is, let's think about it better.]] Should we recall the law on it? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm not worried that we're behind this and that we're responsible for it. [[The president calls.]] Pirat's statement is that it should be done, not by fire defense, but by extinguishing the fires when they are on fire. [[The president calls.]] We are willing to shoulder responsibility, and we will do so by making that decision because national interests are very rich in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u86	Mr. President. This is a case that nobody wanted to come to if the situation wasn't the one that lived. Of course, the situation is very special. The companies Icellands compete with today, even though competition is relative in the world's air market, all have in one way or another received government support into their financial bills in support of business. This is the situation we face. A fence has been built, as it were, by the Committee, a warning that I can tell for my part that I like the way I look. It is everyone's hope that they will not try this responsibility. But I just want to remind you of what I've said before that it's not long since the Senate thought it was a small thing to put triple on the city line -- I came into it, I succeeded - and it just didn't seem a problem. [[The president calls.]] We need to put this into context and more and less all the societies that are active in this market enjoy Kingdom power today. [[The president calls.]] The middle party will support this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u87	President. V.E.G. The prime minister says that the purpose is to ensure flight and commercial transportation and to minimize the loss of the state. This is 15 billion dollars. State responsibility, taxpayers' money. Today's value is 5 billion. They're supposed to put in 15 billion loan line, state responsibility, taxpayers' money, but today the value of the club is 5 billion. If the market does not trust to rebuild the union as it is, which is not strange - fire - old planes, heavy debts, unhappy staff at the same time as a new airline is in the load with brand - new two - year airplanes, small debts, and will destroy the competition - what are we going to do? [[The president calls.]] Are we really going that way? No, we're waiting. If the stock market fails, if it fails without government support, then the State can step in. If it enters, it does not have to supply 15 billion, which can buy at a lower price or even lower price than a travel minister's cost, less than 1.5 billion. [[The president calls.]] It would be a wise way to handle money.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u88	President. I was just going to agree with my colleagues who have spoken ahead of me and stress that it is important to ensure flying is important, and it is important to treat public funds, to reduce the losses of pensions. That was the main objective of Piratar and I when we were thinking about it and decided whether we would support this route or not. Of course, the wish - to - do of the stock market is going well with Icellands without the presence of the State. That would be the best possible conclusion. We wish this companion success in it, but the state might be quite ready to intervene if it doesn't work out, which backup, e.g. by buying the share of the pension fund. We're just opening up to the fact that if things go wrong, the state will have a thing, not to take this risk with the public money that is now being done through the pension fund, the Bank, the Bank of State, and the state funds. It's too risky, and we're getting too little for it. [[The president calls.]] We don't even know if we can get anything for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u89	A respectable president. It's not default, it's a big deal to give the state responsibility to lend money to a private company on the market. Therefore, we have approach with caution. But why are we there? There is an 80% reduction in the number of flights in the world. Europe has as many as 97% less flights. All airlines in the world, especially in our part of the world, are now living under the support of countries. In some cases, the airlines already owned some of the states committed to making much more money and taking much more risks. We were not in that position because the company had a stronger position on the front. We have been able to establish a requirement for the Society to meet certain conditions before it comes to our granting Kingdom responsibilities on loan, provided the stock market is running. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The road is as cautious as possible to minimize risk to public taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u90	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u92	A respectable president. I'd like to apologize for this misunderstanding before about the votes of a man. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, in the deCode case at the time. But it's nice to remember that they were granted state responsibility for the business now powerful in Icelandic society and have played a crucial role in the conditions that have developed here. Do we regret having given Kingdom responsibilities at that time, which, in fact, never tested? We regret having granted Icelanda the government responsibilities we have previously granted our company, e.g. following the attack on the Twin Towers? Then we had to give Kingdom responsibilities so that a business could continue in the difficult situations that were created in the world. No, we won't. They were never put to the test. Similarly, the government groups are ready to shoulder the responsibility that the government now calls upon, and we do not hesitate to take care of the national interests that exist here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u93	Mr. President. In this regard, interesting comments on the vote have been made, as they say. Especially from the United States, I feel that I, who have suggested and talked a lot about raising unemployment rates but who do not want to prevent unemployment by supporting this case. This is a matter of national interest, as it has been said, and with the loan it is developing a basis for investors to join in difficult times. Not by default. There will be consequences if the government is confined to action. Let's figure it out. The middle class takes a responsible stand on this matter and supports it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u94	A respectable president. 1st C.E. The bill that we are giving responsibility for a systematicly important group of members called Icelanda Groups. It's where they stand all the way down in Floki. The Icelanda Group consists of many landmarks with all kinds of operations, and we cannot support giving such responsibilities to Icelanda Group. I'd like to know: How on earth did it come about that Icelanda wasn't there? Isn't that what is systematicly important? Isn't that what's supposed to get us to and from the land? What do we have to do with some mountain exodus, hotel books, hotel business, and all kinds of business under Illellanda Group? There's no way that you can link these two groups, the Icelanda Group, with all their great-aunters, and the Icelanda. The people's party will by no means vote for this. Rather, it is the sole responsibility of the interests of the stakes as so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u95	Mr. President. It's not every day that the Council is given a national responsibility for a private company. I gave my opinion on the state of aid to Illelands here at 1st. and spoke of the need to be much clearer to the state responsibility, that I thought the State would have to become a part of the union rather than a government responsibility, as so many European governments have done, both to ensure a more public interest in the state of the public money and to ensure that the potential benefits of a society's restoration will be made to the public. Still, I'm glad to see it. The legal committee has changed the terms for the state responsibility of the loan line in order that it can be used, not in the management of a daughter, but only to support society's airline flight to and from the country. This is greatly improved, although by my view it might have been better on conditions for the state of responsibilities, especially green conditions, and procedures. Mr. President. I will support this case in which activities related to Ictelanda's activities run in thousands of direct and hundreds of different jobs. We need to work in the circumstances in which we live and now face ourselves in Icelandic society. [[The president calls.]] Thus, the interests of the state and society are in place to contribute to this age of unemployment and uncertainty in business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u96	Mr. President. The support we're talking about here is not self-inflicted. I know that in these votes there are more senators than I have to put forth considerable effort to just keep it out of the question about the responsibility and risks of a company's business in private business, private property, taxpayers, and the pensioners. But we are just confronted with bad things. Let's get the systematic importance of flying in the air for Icelandic interests. The evidence suggests that the tourism is getting better and better with the strong airline of Icelanda. It is often said that the first rule to honor when companies in private possession are just like a helping hand from the state is to ensure that the taxpayers get part of the money if it goes well, not just the risk if things go wrong. We've been arguing about anything today whether the government has ensured this, upholding this order enough. I'm not convinced of it, and I haven't been able to see it well enough, and that's why I can't support this case. [[The president calls.]] But I won't vote against it either. I'd like to say one more thing. The managers of Icelanda, if this case goes through, are also committed. [[The president calls.]] It has occurred recently, with collective agreements, with competitions. [[The president calls.]] In the prisoner of pension patients, in the arms of taxpayers, they are required to run a exemplary society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u97	A respectable president. Although my involvement in politics would compromise to market solutions in the economy rather than in the state of the economy, and to the exclusive, not to compete, I am not to rule out the possibility that the taxpayers will be asked to run with private companies, especially in our current situation. However, it should be seen that part of today's situation is due, in part, to government itself, to action that is far beyond reason. Do I mention the closing of a border here in the last few weeks that have completely pulled my legs off Icelanda and other airlines who want to fly here or want to work here? I would have felt much closer to the government alone in removing these endlines and these measures and supporting the biological management of airlines in this country instead of this. [[The president calls.]] It is not the State's job to choose which airlines live or which airlines get here, rather than other companies. That's why I say no. [[The president calls.]] But I'd like to mention that I wish that the wildest dreams of the government stand come true and that Icelands will be crushed with vegetation over the next few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u98	President. Just to be told about what the Pirantars want: we want to ensure flight transport, we want to protect the staff, we want to minimize and reduce the damage to the pension fund. We feel that by means of this act, they are being let go of a lot of good money after bad. We want to treat public funds well. What this proposal of the government does is to get people to throw good money away after bad. We consider it according to our straggility analysis, by analysis from international surveillance, to the diagnosis of Mckinsey, which states that the scenarios on which the government's proposals are not met. It all seems that there will be a conclusion. However, the Kingdom will set up 15 billion dollars. A loan line for today's partner is 5 billion bucks. worth it. What we wanted to do is that if the markets fail to do this - the market is to do it, the market is to get to work, competition to work - then the State steps in and only then. Then and only then does the kingdom step in. [[The president calls.]] Then these shares are worthless, and the government can offer to buy them at very low prices to keep flying, keep the aircraft running, until the situation is resolved. [[The president calls.]] It's a real solution that looks good with public money, good with staff, good with the pension, good with public money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u99	President. This is the subject of yesterday's disagreement. The amount of pension at the table is to be paid by taxpayers taking on possibly 15 billion dollars. The responsibility to reduce the risk of this action because it is a risky act. But that is not enough. However, the Pension Fund is not allowed to participate in this show unless this bill is adopted that allows them to become more risky, to take greater risks. That's what it takes, to let the pensions get involved. There's something we should be told about the risks of this action.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u100	The President has received the following program proposals and the following letters: I signed it, in accordance with 1.mg. 77st. Conventional proposals, that the next meeting program will be: 1st Fishing, bill, 1,000 cases, fish. $1,200. ▪ 1. Environment, as well as the rest of the programs proposed by the President of the Generals. We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. ◯ Under this letter Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir writes. There is now a vote on the program proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u101	A respectable president. I'm suggesting that we set up a small matter that is of great importance to our country's settlements and to small boatmen who have requested that about 350 boats become beach fishing in September. Here's the bill. It's simple. It is short and sweet, and it can be arranged tonight. It contains the legal means needed to fish in September. I especially want to encourage the highest. Minister of the sea, Kristján Þór the son of Júlíusson, and why. The head of the trade committee Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir to pay this program his vote and assist the marine fishermen by allowing coastal fishing in September.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u102	President. The bill is very simple. It gives ministers the authority that he claims he does not have; he says his hands are tied, that the lawgiver has bound his hands, and he does not have the authority to allow the beach fishing in September. We'll figure it out. Let's get the minister out of here and give him a beach hunt in September. That's what the bill allows. It is said: Well, there is nothing to go about with this now. Yeah, it's a Covid thing. Last night, the president of the council asked the council to evaluate the issues of Covid. If the council says the case may be scheduled, it's a Covid thing. Finally, a minister also told me in unsubstantiated inquiries today that there are some things that could be interpreted as a Covid thing. The nests of the country in a Covid crisis are good for them to live in the farm where little boat sailors can bring them fish. We're just talking about doing it within sustainable goals, what wasn't granted last year. This is a Covid thing. If the council agrees, we can schedule it and continue. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we know there's no interest in it, but we're actually setting this up so that we can see that there's no interest in doing this. [[The president calls.]] This is what we want. It's pretty clear the government doesn't want it. But let's see the vote table just below.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-140.u103	President. We will, of course, vote with this. This gives us a bill allowing for a beach hunt in September, a warrant that a minister claims he has not, but he will have if it is approved. In unsupervised inquiry this morning, we discussed this with the minister of the sea, saying: Coastal fishermen have given so much, and others have given so little, and they have failed. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Let's just watch how it was, everybody can watch it. It's not just little boatmen, it's about the settlements. That's what it's all about. That's why it's a Covid thing. It's about the settlements that are missing their income after losing their income from tourists. That's what the bill does. The building will gain additional income if coastal fishing becomes available in September. That's what it's all about.
