ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u1	To answer these questions, Ministers of Economics and Economics, Social and Juvenile Affairs, Education and Culture Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers and Foreign and Development Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u2	President. The new estimate of economic development is a significant concern, and it must be for the highest degree. Secretary of finance, as well as the government. So I simply ask, "How are you planning to go to the top?" The Ministers and the Government respond to this situation, this trend, which is somewhat anticipated, on the one hand in the state's budget, and in the government's decision on investments, and on the other hand, notably on the small ones and mediums of the country, who have recently had considerable problems because of the development of different economics and economic gains? It has not been overlooked in politics that business situation in particular has gained much weight from smaller enterprises. Hence, these new predictions are the more disturbing of business workers. The questions are: How will we see the government's reaction, on the one hand, in government management and in terms of losing weight with business partners?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u3	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator's concern is that economic growth is less than expected. It'll even come. That is because we no longer have this dynamic growth in tourism in our country, although we have an enormously powerful tourism program and a large number of tourists in Iceland. Similarly, it is disappointing that measurements of the hairy stock do not seem to give a basis for publishing the salutations for hairy fishing this year, but not all swimming are still closed. We're still hoping that we'll still find our furs. We can see that in recent years, high rates of pay are breaking down by less investments in businesses. The proper reaction to the government has already begun. We've given up after the hearing. We've got a lot of cash now. That's the right reaction. It is the same reaction as the bat is by reducing interest. I believe that now there is a need to add to the government investment over the next few years even more than there already is. We're in the woods, and we're in great power to do that. We have valuable assets, and we stand well because in recent years we have made arrangements for the benefits of the past few years to pay back debt so that the debt ratios of the State are very strong. If we examine small, medium-sized enterprises as well. A senator points to, and makes a big difference here in economic development, because there are most of the jobs, we've been focusing on innovation in recent years. But what is it that defines this company? Yeah, we've been lowering the insurance. Many people want to say that they need to lower even more. What distinguishes the position of these enterprises is that their competitiveness has been changed because of the high pay rate. [[The president calls.]] Today, there is evidence that we will see in the years to come, where we will see the requirement for greater prominence and unity and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u4	President. More economic growth will, of course, reduce government income, but at the same time there is a greater need forinvestment. That's why it's out of the question, in the highest estimate. Minister, rethinking your priorities on government expenses? V.E.G. A minister has sometimes claimed that the stall is not really expanding, i.e. Relatively, because of the increase in domestic production, the increase is much higher. But now it's about to turn around. As defined, national production is now contracting and contracting. Minister, suddenly burst out. Does it not take such a situation to look at the priorities of financial matters? Is it not a reason for the companies to lower their insurance costs faster and thus contribute to an increase in the value of the company, and hopefully reduce unemployment? You have wondered, " Is such a situation simply a fall in order to strengthen the state's office with a reasonable tax reduction? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u5	A respectable president. I've been discussing the blunder stressing that the state needs to be much more efficient. We are in a digital revolution now so that the state is more flexible, faster, and more efficient in bringing its services to people and businesses. It contains, for example, Induction of digital solutions one key factor. We also need to make sure that everywhere else the funds are being used to the full. Right away. One senator asks, " Should I not be making money elsewhere and setting priorities again?'In this discussion, I have simply been calling attention to the fact that the large sums of money are in public insurance, with microchips, pensioners. The large amounts of money are in the health system where we have been adding substantial amounts of money, in the educational system, and in transport as well. I just have to ask when men are saying that there are some major factors on the state's budget side where we should jump up and move money to see if they're talking about this big pay force. Are people talking about social security or what are they talking about in this regard? [[The president calls.]] We're not in a crisis. We're not going down yet. We have very high national production. We are in a strong position, but we need to get oxygen back to our jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u6	Mr. President. Just on the other side. For over 25 years it has regularly been called attention to the need to eliminate the obvious double action of a study of tax fraud and economic crime and the release of charges against it. The conditions of the nation in this country are slow and costly, and neither the official nor the alleged defendants are in favour. In addition, with a long trial of treatment, there is an increased risk of criminal damage and leading to a milder judgment and, as in the case of the case, even acquiescation. The district attorney published charges after a study, but the tax investigator does not do so after his studies, even though the results of the tax investigator are laid down for the local district attorney investigation. The Panama Documents had a large population of Icelanders and their research was complex and complex. The Union documents call for an investigation of complex transfers and opinions in at least three countries, and then we're on a gray list because we don't have to take action against the money and the funding of terrorism. Clearly, more research on tax laws needs to be done, making them more efficient. In September of last year, 140 counts of payment were held at the local district attorney's table from the head of the tax. Several published reports have discussed the possible solution to the prosecution for these matters to the head of the IRS and to the recent Parliament of the United Nations, it is also suggested. It's the highest. I don't agree with the fact that it has to be done, alter the law so that the taxpayer is given power, thus preventing double action in the criminal investigation and the avoidance of unnecessary effort and the cost of public and unnecessary burden for the defendants?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u7	A respectable president. We've had those cases in our head, including... for the loss of cases at the European Court of Human Rights, which did not combine in their investigation at different levels. You can totally agree with that. A member of the council to investigate these issues is a bit complicated, but I have wanted to rely on our best people in this regard and therefore have had a special team of experts to plan how we can handle both the findings of the European Court of Human Rights and, at the same time, use the experience and knowledge of the system here at home to improve efficiency in these matters. In this way, we would not only increase our efficiency but also take greater care of human rights. I've recently published, about A two-week report of the ongoing work group on these issues. I have appointed a special bill to respond to the position that has come up after the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, where we have decided to prevent such an incident from repeating itself. But in the work and in the report published on the Ministry of finance, it is not expected that a tax investigator will receive power or that we will continue to operate in the unchanged systems. Rather, we are looking at how we could unite organizations and how projects would move between them. But it seems to me there's an excellent walk in this and, as I've been saying before, in a story on the Ministry's website since January 24th, I hope to present a bill on this subject later in the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u8	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, and I'm glad there's something to do about it. But I think it's necessary to have faster hands and take out the binary because it's not the way we want our systems to work, so slow and uninformed that the defendants will escape, and that punishment may be varied even according to what the lesson is. I've been looking at what's going on in Germany in these waters, and I'm pretty impressed. A minister to look there after the changes in this field. I also want to ask the highest. Minister to money laundering and how to deal with it. Money launderers are often involved in tax fraud, and often we can start by considering large sums of money by looking at the fragments that are tax frauds. I'm asking if it's better to have research on money and tax fraud at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u9	A respectable president. We have, on the bill before the council, already decided to stop stressing matters that are supposed to take the penal line. We should have already responded to the indications that we have received through the findings of the European Court of Human Rights. You're absolutely right. A senator often has a link between different errors, i.e. One and the same matter may involve a path of offenses. We've been promoting the government in an effort to investigate money-abundance. Additional donations to the tax investigator include, for example, because there is an increase in reports from many parts of the system, including Because of increased awareness of the importance of the group of languages, it has created pressures that we need to face with increasing manpower. [[The president calls.]] All I want to do is call attention to the basic data contained in the report that has already been published. They're working on this, and I hope to bring more answers on a bill by the fall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u10	A respectable president. In an answer recently received from the social and child - care minister, it is clear that there are ten groups of sensibilities in sensibilities and microbes. These impairment categories account for 11.9% to 65% impairment. But this does not tell the whole story, for within these categories there are chain defects. And when these groups are replaced, other social - sector classes, such as special housing support and housing, etc., take over. The combined levels of these impairments may be well above 100% today. The government surmises because it has done so much for disability but is inside that number, since that government came into power, eight billion dollars. increase in the decrease in this category? Since 2015, if we take over the governments of the past few years, they've increased the reductions by 13 billion, and only now in the last three years by 8.5 billion. At the same time, they kiss because they have done so much for this group. But do they accept all the impairments when they are saying how much this group has received? This does not come into their pockets that most need this, but it is just a game to speak. I'm wondering, is the Minister of Social Affairs going to continue this recession policy? Is he proud of this? Is it a goal to make sure that people are not affected, or what is the policy in these matters? It is clear that although this government has lowered a dollar from a dollar to 65 dollars, it did not result in the need for those who needed it because other groups took over and reduced chain - chain reaction more.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u11	A respectable president. The policy of this government is clear to micro-energy pensioners, i.e. to reduce impairment. We did so here, as the senator entered his inquiry, and the policy is to continue. The Senator says it's a game to talk, but what? A senator too, drawing conclusions that the government's policy is not to reduce the degree of impairment, using this combination to support his case. The course is clear, i.e. to reduce the decline in the system and encourage increased participation in the job market. Also, it's a bit big to take in, I'd like to say, when the senator says that having reduced the decline here just didn't come back when it's affecting other parts of the system. The system is very complex, and it's a bit big to say that it didn't come back and that it didn't come back to anyone, as the senator did in his own matter. Subtracting a crown to one's level has paid off and will return to those who can use it. But I'm worried about the group in the system that can't get any job. There is no effect of the plagues. This does not help the group of people who only survive the process and are unable to get a job, including due to disability or disability, to reduce impairment. We've been looking at that group specifically, e.g. The elderly, as we are preparing a special added social support for a report submitted here last year. That is exactly what we are talking about a group that does not have the opportunity to obtain other incomes in the system, and smaller ones are not benefiting from it. But policy is completely clear, i.e. to reduce impairment. We must not, however, do so in that we forget to talk about those groups who do not have a chance to obtain other income, and this discussion sometimes goes forgotten.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u12	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. The numbers speak for themselves. He plainly says that they are reducing the decline, but the figures show that the impairments are being increased, from 3.5 billion 2018 to 5 billion 2019. Isn't that an increase? And where is this increase? With older citizens and micropunchers. We are talking about 60 billion a year, about 60 billion combined, 16 billion for micropigs, and 44 billion for older citizens. The increase is 3.7 billion in older cities and 1.1 billion in micropigs. Is this cutting down? I just ask: How on earth can you possibly calculate that an increase of 5 billion is reducing the rate of failure?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u13	A respectable president. As I said before, so I use the senator's words, it's a game to speak. When the total total amount is combined, it must be taken into account what has been raised, which is increasing each year, the total pay for microenergy donors, whether they have increased in there. It needs to be examined on an individual basis. When you take your total arms together, it does not provide the right picture to individuals. For individuals who were impaired because they went to work in a job market and made money, we are getting better because we reduced these losses. But when you put in a system a total of over all the individuals, all of them, it's a game to count. It would be informative to take certain groups apart because the goal is to reduce the degree of impairment to the people who build the system, not to work in their total arms as such. The goal is always to work on an individual basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u14	President. V.E.G. Child Protector of Ásmundur Daðason Daledon asked to call himself a paediatric minister. He asked to be the minister of child protection. The government entrusted him with being a minister of child protection, and the president of Iceland gave him the power to be the minister of child protection. That's what it says in the Presidential decision, at the highest level. The minister of Ásmundur the Einar son of Daðason is entrusted with the responsibility and the power to protect children and to represent the Children's Protection Agency. National law states that what is best for a child should always take priority, even when child protection ministers take steps that concern children. Since that law was passed, more than 300 children have been exonerated without the authorities knowing what will happen to them. V.E.G. Child welfare minister does not know what happened to these children that he is legal to protect. If he does not want to use the power he has to protect children without discrimination, regardless of their parents'position, he should allow another prime minister to take over this area of child protection. If he neglects to use his authority as a minister to protect his children but still refuses to tell him about that assignment so that others can protect children, what is he? What is the name of a man who takes the authority to protect children but not to use them? I'll ask the Minister first of this question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u15	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry and is very proud to be a child - care minister and very proud of the changes we are working on in the child protection system at the time of child control. Part of that changes turns even that in all the activities and work that are going on with children who are refugees, they are taken more into account, the following the children's covenants, and the articles there. We've already seen improvements in this, e.g. in a judicial committee of foreigners who have been making changes. We were starting a work assignment now in Hafnarfjörður to accompany unsupervised children, where they were to be taken into complete reexamination. However, this is not to be changed overnight. It is also so that as we approach this group, we need to give more attention to the affairs of children everywhere. This will be seen in the total law that is being processed in cooperation with all categories and hopefully in consultations over the next few weeks, which will require extensive adjustment of the law, including: has child protection laws to strengthen them. If the senator does not trust the person standing here to continue doing this work, I encourage him to transfer confidence in the minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u16	President. There's no need to express confidence in a minister. We know exactly what that play would mean here. On the other hand, the important thing is to find out if a minister is going to employ him. He's talking about total legislation, doing something here and there, but is he going to take advantage of this kind of thing? If a decision came from the Foreign Institute to expel a child from the country, will he use his ministry and the authority he has been given to ensure that a child is not expelled from the country and that the law is followed by the child's rights, that the child's best child is put first? There would not be a rescue team on a avalanche drive and then will not be involved in rescue operations. It's a bad man who does that. If a minister does not exercise his full authority when he is to expel a child - that does not mean to say whole - souled. One child expelled from the country without being in the best interests of it is too much for one child. There are now 300 of them now, since we agreed to these laws. [[The president calls.]] Will the minister use all his power so that not one child goes abroad and this law is not maligned?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u17	A respectable president. As I explained earlier, we must work on the law and the project is to strengthen the law against the status of children. The task is to ensure that the children's covenant is completely won in an Icelandic community. The Senator says: "It doesn't mean thinking about the law. What will the minister do?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u18	No...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u19	The task is to change the law to make sure that the children's positions are taken into account and that they work according to the children's covenants completely, and that is what we are doing. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] That's what we're working on, and we're going to go for it, that everything we do is work for it. There are changes. Minister of Justice introduced e.g. this weekend, a shorter treatment period. I spoke of earlier what's being done even. in a judicial committee of foreigners, a project that we are working on in cooperation with Hafnarfjörður, changes in child protection. All of this points to the same thing: to make sure that we are fully fulfilling the United Nations Children's Covenant. [[The president calls.]] That is the task ahead, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u20	A respectable president. The revised economic forecasts of Iceland's Summit and the growth of banks reported yesterday are concerns for the Icelandic economy, while confirming at the same time what has been warned since this government began its reign, namely, in the United States. that her budgets were all too optimistic, that it was being overcrowded but neglected by public investments. It is, therefore, a joy to listen to the highest. Secretary of finance declares that it is time to spit, and it is at last time to attack a large increase in public investments. However, there is reason to ask the highest question. Ministers where he will find space in the government's affairs for increased investments because at the same time as economic presidents are getting worse, the government's revenues are getting worse, and the current financial and financial policies of this government, which she actually had to reevaluate for less than a year because of the worsening economic leadership, have no room for increased public investments. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How will the State attack on these necessary public investments that have been starving for far too long? Despite the slight growth in investments over the years, they are still under the long - term average. For example, economic growth based on tourism is not sustainable in the long run unless we take control of the vital structure needed to take place in the national road system. Above all, how will the government finance the investments it now proclaims? It is certainly a cause for rejoicing and a need for an attack.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u21	A respectable president. First, the government's built on too optimistic grounds. What I've said repeatedly at a council hall is: We're based on official evidence, official predictions. Right away. A senator has come here before and said that the predictions are too optimistic is not competing with me for who is right about the future; he is just having a conversation with the fortune - tellers. He's talking to Haguen, the Secret Bank, and other economists who will hand us these data to work out, and we believe that it is a matter of business and, in fact, our only chance of building on official evidence, public forecasts. It's claimed that the government opened the booth. Those who say this are usually the same ones who pick up the account for those who have least hands in the community, have to rely on the benefits of social security, social pension, disability benefits. These are usually the same ones who talk about the need for large contributions from the health system. They're the same people who want more in the way, more in education. When people bring it into the chamber, I just ask: " Where did the expenses grow where they shouldn't have grown? ' I've thought it's good and it's desirable, and that's what we're always going to do when we're buying, for example. The technical, more efficient drug to save more lives, when we better support disability, when we better support elderly people who have not managed to use employers to secure enough pensions, etc. Where will the government get the space? I have pointed out that the government and me Icelanders have more financial assets than any other European country. There's one obvious option to go to an inaccessible investment by dislodging financial assets. This may take some time, but a person must have a course in order to be started at some point. It is one obvious advantage in my mind to clean up the state's financial accounts, to change financial assets into unscrupulous, profitable investments. [[The president calls.]] That is one example of a change we can make.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u22	A respectable president. It is true that this government has repeatedly been criticized for all too optimistic reasons, not only by the organizations of industry and business organizations, who have repeatedly pointed out that the government would have to be more cautious, which is one of the baseline laws on public finances, because the economic forecasts that were going on are all too optimistic. It's walking around, walking around last year, and walking back this year. Still, the minister of finance goes and says: "Well, we just follow official predictions. I'm just asking the secretary of finance to stick his head out of the window and see what's going on in the economy, and realize that the economics he has based on were too optimistic, which he's built a huge increase in government spending on in order to bust out the booth as best shown in the growing public work while the private sector is getting together. [[Up front.]] This is reality at its height. A minister should realize. When he asks where the expenses should not have increased, it can be noted that the level of government spending has increased in all other than health and welfare. It is the booth that is repeatedly criticized a minister for having bulging out over the past two years. [[The president calls.]] That's why I keep asking, "How are you going to do the best? " Minister to finance public projects and to support his colleagues in the government for sales in Iceland Bank? [[The president calls.]] It may be noted that this is not even enough, since public financial laws need to be changed if they are to be used by their internal investors. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u23	A respectable president. What follows is, in effect, the reason. A senator does not support the change he was preaching here at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u24	I'll back her up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u25	He supports her, that's good. If there is a need for law changes so that the state can turn property into its balance accounts, turn shares into banks, bridges, ports, data cables, and other essential structures that will promote this community to the future, I will certainly make such a suggestion for the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u26	Is there more to that?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u27	When these talks are presented here that the government has lost its course, she has followed the wrong economic predictions, she has been too optimistic, I ask men to... We regularly hear in the chamber that we have been on the wrong road. Where has it been for us? The debt of state funds has never been lower. The status of state funds is never stronger. [[The president calls.]] The status of the households is never stronger, the financial power of Icelanders greatest among nations within OECD etc. We've been on the right track. We're in no crisis. We are in a very strong place, but it is a project that is waiting for us and that can be solved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u28	Mr. President. I have previously noted that when it comes to a vote on a request, it is sometimes more convenient for a case to have had an attitude, some discussion at the council, before a vote was made. It is not expected in Congress but I have mentioned at the council board that some minimal consideration should be made, both on the scope and in the form of reporting requests. In this case, it seems to me that there was a bit of a mix-up of ideas about a file request, a petition and a council proposal. The matter is not that the reporting process is a good thing. In part, this is information that is certainly available in public data and is available. In other cases, it appears that any aspects of the study are considered, on the other hand, in Namiba, and that the nature of the case will not be able to be answered on the basis of this report request. For this reason, I want to present these comments and will sit by my vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u29	President. A request is one of the surveillance tools the members have. It should be sufficient for nine members of the Parliament to agree to request a report because it is necessary to decide in the Senate Hall whether the requests are permitted. I always find it very dangerous when the majority of the councils put sand in them by talking about taking more and more complicated steps when it comes to keeping track of the executive authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u30	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying every word. paritaprevir One year's Ármannsson farm said of the desirable means of reporting frequently and frequently, as well as the general assembly in this regard. At all times, I support reports and data collections of various kinds, and we certainly do, and we do not stand in the way of that. However, I would like to make a comment to an expression in a report. I think an unscrupulous, respectable president is going to give himself something about the payment referred to in a report that speaks of a special payment to those who have the most control of the distribution of the food rights to be added in such calculations. On the other hand, I do not make a comment to the request, nor do I intend to interfere with the Supreme Court. The minister's article from the request for an end will be based on official data, I suppose, which is fundamental to such comparison. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u31	A respectable president. This request is nothing more than a set people's jar, which will follow up on a serious case that has been informed and considered. Here, a political mud is being drawn up for a problem that has been involved in hunting costs in Iceland, and it is claimed that the fishing will be served at the cost of what it feels is suitable for each occasion. This is a mix-up of completely different systems, asking the council to agree that these very different systems are being taken out and that, on the basis of comparison, alleged payoffs are included in the account so that this will be the best time for political discussions in Iceland. This is far from an acceptable suggestion, and there is no way to support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u32	A respectable president. In the larger part of the council, it is understood that they would have wanted to censor the literature on this request, but this is one of the smaller tools available to monitor the execution of the European Commission. It is a simple request, and it is perfectly normal for the public to know the comparison in this regard. [[Foreground on, just...]] It has been pointed out that there has been a decrease in fishing costs, low as the share of the cutoffs. You're absolutely right by the Topv. The secretary of finance is somewhat different. In Namibia, there is talk of fishing clearances until one year old. Iceland has been talking about non-term fishing grounds that should be worth a lot more by reasoning with the self-importation process, so I don't see why the more part is afraid of this comparison.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u33	Mr. President. I don't think that's true. paritaprevir Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson is afraid of this comparison. But what's stupid from my point of view is comparing apples with oranges, but there's also a point I wanted to do about the subject here today, that men bring something in the form of a report request which, in part, at home as a report request, is part of some sort of inquiry to the minister, and in part, to some form of a political council proposal. Without wanting to write in any way what the government's doing, I'm not able to do it, I would have thought that a little thought and a little discussion of the shape and presentation of the petition would have helped him. The members of the administrative body, which are behind this issue, are to make a clearer request to bring out the information they want to bring out without grazing all of them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u34	President. The most natural thing in the world is that people are getting information. Does anyone in this room think that the people don't want to compare what we get for our resources, fish our resources in Iceland, and whatever company that has the resources in Iceland elsewhere? Do people really think that the people don't want this information? Is it a people thing to ask about them? No, asking for that information is not a people thing. The fact that this request goes through means that the minister and the Ministry may react far more extensively than if it were a inquiry. The Ministry can give a detailed answer, and this can take the comparison in the larger context. It's the opportunity to make a statement. It's not an opportunity to do it that way if there's a query that doesn't have to be accepted here, it's sent directly to the minister. It has been complained about inquiries with the argument that it was used too much form. These inquiries would not enable the Ministry to present at its highest level the views. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson, appears to be performing. He doesn't feel anything like this on the grounds set out there, but a minister can quite add it to the report and set it up as a fair comparison. [[The president calls.]] This is our chance, and we should let the people of the country get that comparison.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u35	A respectable president. I support this petition with a complete mind. I don't know why we're having this report. I don't think I understand why we're arguing whether it should come or not. It is to come, and a minister would have to bring in much more reports on this matter. There's a lot of research to be done over and over again, and that's why I'm just gonna say I'm gonna back up on this report, and I'm sure the report will come.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u36	A respectable president. We've been in the past few months, and we've missed votes for different types of reporting requests. We've got some kind of political charlatanism going on here. There is nothing wrong with getting such information and comparing it, but when people ask for a report, they are usually asking for something far more extensive, sometimes too large, that has even taken a lot of resources and years of work. There are, in fact, hundreds of millions in a study report. I think we just need to ask ourselves, " What is this information going to be about? ' It is possible that members of the Parliament, both council members and members of the council, can make requests for information and to perform it if they are prepared to do so. However, there is always a question about what costume is presented. [[The president calls.]] Is that an unprepared inquiry, a written request, a report request, or anything else, much bigger? I don't think this is political charismaticism. [[It's the right thing to do...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u37	A respectable president. How amazing it is to listen to the administrative part of talk about political charismatic or deity! Here's a simple request. How do the payments for use of resources in this country compare to what the production pays elsewhere, which we have seen according to the news, may be up to twice as high as the same company is paying for the rights to use in this country? This is information that is relevant to the public. Is it not consistent with the provision she is prepared to pay elsewhere, compared with the amount of charge she is prepared to pay here and to be loudly complaining about her being too high? If this is the case, the price for short-term fishing rights in Namibia is twice as high as the local fishing fee, it is the information relevant to the general public and to evaluate the government's policy on fishing costs in this country. Therefore, this request is fully valid. [[The president calls.]] It's simple, easily understood, and there's nothing to mix up with a synonym and a file request. This is a very clear and simple request that I support as a whole. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u38	V.E.G. President. As the laity generals have noted, the Central Party was not invited to be an associate to this request. The report might have been a little different if it had been. Prayer itself is not all bad. It is most intriguing to compare the cost of fishing between different countries. There's no question about that. I would have liked to have this report, in addition to comparing the cost of making money between Iceland, Norway and Russia, to say something here. However, there are serious flaws to the report in this case that I feel would damage the request. I'll agree with her, no question, there's no lines in the media to do that, but I'll do that because it's important that we arrange the right of the senators to ask for reports. The report says, by permission of the president: ▪ That political evaluation has again been based on the opinion of the stakeholders in development represented by the companies paying for it. There are claims that are just bullshit and nonsense like that don't belong in a request like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u39	A respectable president. I'm going to get back up to emphasize that this motion is nothing more than a people's jar. According to one estimate, the price paid in Iceland and elsewhere can be compared. There is no hunting fee here, however, but we have a fixed catch fee. You don't invite to the hunting court in individual species. This is a whole different case, and the fishing fee is different from the species and with the National Social Act, we have decided how to extract from the company's profits from an enterprise's contribution to each type. When this is the case, it is as if everything else is unchanged. It's all the same in Namibia, isn't it, and Iceland, credits, income taxes and pay taxes? What are the benefits in Namibia? How's the oil price? How are the seamen's trades rights in Namibia? Are you gonna take all this into account? [[Up front.]] Are people really interested in asking such serious questions as this: How is it possible to create value for an Icelandic people from Icelandic fishing soil? [[The president calls.]] How's that working out for you? Perhaps a person should simply ask, " Is the land more involved in hunting, in Iceland, or in Namibia? ' [[The president calls.]] This is nothing more than a demarcation. They're comparing completely incontrovertible things, and they're trying to bring in the discussion about the Union stuff that has no business and that doesn't give any real information about the fish status in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u40	President of the court. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers have one minute to report their vote or discuss the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u41	Mr. President. Hv. Allied members have an important role in monitoring. They have the right to call for information that they consider important to the public and to their work as members of Congress. I've noticed that the highest one. The government complains more than any other person I have listened to in the last ten years because of what has been reported by members of Congress. They're told too much, the reports are too long, and now it seems to me that the report will be too short. [[Up front.]] I'm asking, Mr President, what are we doing? Officers afraid? [[Take it up in: The People.]] Of course, we accept this request because it is important to draw up this information.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u42	Mr. President. The government site is accused of demarcation. However, I blame the executives for the classic economic care we see over and over in this hall when it comes to the affairs of certain corporations in the seaside. This is part of a much larger picture, and I think it's totally ridiculous if the administrative part is going to cancel a statement request for a comparison we're asking for the highest level. High - quality ministers, especially in the atmosphere, have dropped the cost of fishing costs by half. It has been a few weeks since the greater part made direct suggestions on putting money on researching the Samaritan language. It's a special priority for the Secretary of finance to cancel the clock charges from companies that buy large ships, so I think the nation will see exactly what the government's interests are always doing. First interests are always the interests of the big marketing industry. That's ridiculous, Mr. President, if the administrative body is going to drop a perfectly normal report request for which decades have been adopted, both in smaller parts and in more parts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u43	V.E.G. President. They are arguing whether this is some kind of charismatic or deity or whether they ask for important information. V.E.G. Look at the format and presentation of this request, I think it's exactly right. Secretary of finance said about her. In itself, I'm not afraid of anything. This is similar, it is not comparable with cost, nor is it comparable to the cost of this fishing, and this is not a significant comparison. That's why it's fake and showy. Most people will probably be on a yellow button, but I'm depressed, so I'm on a red button in everything when it comes to show-ups like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u44	Mr. President. No one is afraid that this request will meet at some very painful spot on the government, at least. to the members of the council who have spoken here on behalf of the greater part of the council. It is interesting in itself that humans respond in this way to a simple request. If the content of the request is so clear that it will not be possible to compare it, these are incomparable objects and empty targets, it will be revealed when the report is submitted. Then people may come here and argue that the request was totally unfounded. But should we not see what the report contains? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u45	A respectable president. I come up because what the most feared people are about this request being peculiar. Last what. A senator, in effect, exposed it, said that if these objects could not be compared at all, the report was unfounded and meaningless. It's our assessment that it is, and that's why we're paying votes in general and that's why I said in my introductions in a previous speech that we need to wonder where this process was going. What are we asking for reports for? Is it to play political games that have now lasted ten minutes? I'm afraid so. What I'm afraid of is what I am. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir, is a populism, a people's bar and a political act. I notice who is participating in this request, and it's surprising.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u46	Mr. President. I don't think we've had any big problems here for the board to answer these requests. They haven't been many. I will, of course, support this request, but I believe it would have been more difficult to convey the request and the report in particular. I don't think it's a big or dangerous thing, but I'd like to point out that we'd make a statement a while ago and request a report on the benefits and defects of Iceland's EEA. The highest letter of Erin's letters. A minister was not in harmony with that request. [[The president calls.]] We requested a report on the pros and cons, but the letter asked for only option.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u47	A respectable president. It was then called from the hall that the reason for so much criticism of a report request now was because people have stopped being careful. I strongly object that we members of the Parliament are being greatly helped by the Committee and the Parliament's office. It is a very good and professional process that will be carried out before they come into votes. There is no need to criticize the members, especially since they have the assistance of a very professional group on the committee stage and at the council's office. For this request, it is widely expressed. They ask for a report comparing Samhera's exchanges for the Namiba trade, on the basis of the ground being set up there. It is very free to consider what a minister can do with this comparison and how he or she can apply it. There's nothing unnatural about this. For the people who were spoken of, I think it may be sent back to the Fathers by e.g. the Kosnings 2016 and 2017, all who know and take only educated guesses, know that they have come from Valhalla. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u48	Mr. President. I guess I've probably supported reports without exception. I've once made a comment to a report request presented here, and that was on a request why. paritaprevir Björn Leví, son of Gunnarsson, had a material comment. And how did it go? A senator of that observation? Yes, he withdrew the report request, took into consideration the comment, and again submitted a petition that was then accepted. I'll think about it. Councilmen who observe this request should consult the carpenter of the Björn of Leví, Gunnarsson, when it comes to examining their own thoughts. Of course, it's true here, that this is an insignificant political charismatic act that is not meant to be tolerated. [[The president calls.]] I won't vote with this report request, but I'm not gonna stop it from being informed what kind of confusion is going on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u49	Mr. President. This is the highest number. Ministers of political charisma, charlatanism and demented people. Shall we talk about what political acting is? It's that Nairobi, who has one-third of the gross national product on the head of Iceland, seems to have more fishing than are in Iceland. Apparently so, and that's why we're asking for this report to confirm it. It's fake that hunting costs are constantly being dropped to favor some cry-collar factory without preconceiving it if we look at other countries where the industry is fishing. If we look at it carefully, hunting costs are very much higher than in Iceland, and it is perfectly normal for us to ask why. [[Up front.]] That's what's being asked for by this report request. It's not fake, it's not actin'. [[The president calls.]] It's not a people's business, Mr. President. It's perfectly normal for the General to try to find out what's going on. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u50	Mr. President. Hv. The head of the Central Party council has learned here that the central category was not invited to this request. If that had been so, it would have been different and more challenging. However, I underline the right to call out for information even if there are errors, as has been noted here. For word's sake. paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason on a report request for the benefits and shortcomings of the Icelanders to the EEA Treaty adopted during three times at the General Assembly: certainly a better report was submitted, based on a letter asking only for the benefit of this membership. So I'd like to point out that there are a lot of things to consider, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for bringing it up when I withdrew my report request. Then there was a controversial viewpoint, and I didn't feel that it was wrong to examine it. Regarding the quality here, it is very clear to ask the secretary to report to the General for a comparison between the Samhera's requisition for the Namib Court and Iceland. It's not complicated, it's extremely simple and clear as it already is. There is no need for quality evaluation. This is a comparison of payments for hunting rights in Iceland and Namibia. Perhaps there are some characters in the text about political assessments or opinions in the report, but this is a report to be introduced by the minister. This is extremely simple, and it's nothing to do with quality, and there's no need to withdraw this from another process. It's a very simple request.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u52	Mr. President. My significant comment to the request is that it includes a request that we start a study of some kind. An apple is to be compared, not even an orange, but a kiwi. That's what they're asking for. If the request is made to compare fishing costs to the environment of Iceland's marine soil with the seabed in other countries, including In Namibia, you might even be able to say so by means of the news request that I was on a green button, but it's not yet being done. They are trying to create political rains by comparing different objects instead of viewing the bigger picture. [[The president calls.]] The overall picture is the marine environment in Iceland and other countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u53	A respectable president. Perhaps enough of this discussion, but I have to say that I have become very excited to see the basket of fruits that may come out of this report. I'll be sitting by the vote, and it's primarily about the form that I think it's necessary for us to revise. What does a report request mean? It is true that the court of Congress is asking for a report, but it is also expected that the Assembly Hall will accept it. This has not been given a lecture by any committee or members of the council. It was just submitted here yesterday, and then it was time to vote on the request today. I think, for example. special that the Senate has the highest power. A minister of ten weeks to submit a report as requested, yet it is stated here in the report that with the request, it is actually requested to consult with members of the council on an independent party to form a group and then write this report for the Minister who is still requesting a report. I'm sorry, Mr President, but I don't think it's quite possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u54	President. Thank you. Report requests for verifying at most. The minister of finance said when he referred to the fact that this was a ppolulism. Their speeches are such that no one is left to doubt that this is the case. On the other hand, the right to request reports is very important, and I agree with it. paritaprevir Haraldsdóttir said, it's becoming something special, so it's not deeper this year. It matters to us how we take this personal interest in the rights of members of Congress. There is also a responsibility for making reports. I don't know if this discussion is over or if it's going to move on, but this is what's going to happen. Imported a report request directed to me on the EEA. The matter is simple, read the report, and then you see that the statements here have failed to measure up to any opinion. While there may be some disagreements, presenting facts can be a challenge. [[The president calls.]] This cannot be reprehensible, but it is what is being done in that report. Then there are people with differing opinions about the pros and cons.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u55	A respectable president. If this was a simple and clean request, such as the spokesmen and performers of this request have said in the discussion, I would have said yes. However, the request itself is destroyed in the report. It confuses all kinds of matters, claims that are not right, a separation of who should attend this inspection, and the assembly's arrival for choosing those who should make this comparison consideration. The report type provided by the report request will destroy it. On the other hand, I will not stand in the way of the situation, and I will return the money in my vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u56	A respectable president. I support the report request, of course, and especially because apples can be compared with oranges or therefore cows. The report explains exactly how the comparison works or does not work out the different conditions available. That's what's being asked for, how to compare it, what common surfaces are there, how to interpret it into comparable shapes. You can compare apples and oranges from the criteria given in the report request as well as in the report to be taken into account. Of course, I support the request and hope that people even think about the basis for it. It deals with comparison of hunting rights and access to it in these two countries and with what it looks like with all its defectes and surfaces.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u57	A respectable president. To me, it is unacceptable to request this report during an investigation of the Samherja case in Namibia. I don't particularly object to a person's request, and when this investigation is completed, I will not oppose it. To me, though, it's nothing but showy, so I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u58	Mr. President. When I woke up this morning and knew about this vote, I decided that I would not stand in the way of the report request but that I would be on the yellow button. After listening to the discussion that took place earlier, I cannot help but say no. It's so obvious what kind of acting is going on here. I don't say no lightly because I think we have to stand guard over the rights of the senators to request reports, but the right always to hold onto the responsibility of the senators, that they have some responsibility for what they want and don't misuse the help and right to request reports as here is being done, unfortunately, the highest. President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u59	President. This has been relatively complicated and perhaps more complex, but it seemed at the first glance as often as it would like to be with an EEA case that runs on our shores. There is reason to commend others. Óli Björn Kárason, president of the Economic and Business Committee for how he has conducted this case, appeared in the Committee's Committee of Committees, along with a change in proposal. What we're about to consider is a decision not to complete the case, that is not ready to complete it, and therefore the committee intends to take the matter up with the initiative of this bill, with the aim of providing a new bill to fix the situation. I felt very important that this would be agreed so that the case would not go through again and that it would be back to 2nd. But with regard to the whole case, it is, as indicated in a committee program, not ready, so I will not vote for the matter now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u60	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize stock centres, renovations and the electronic financial registration. The report says: It's a bill for the Ministry of Economics and Economics under the help of a Committee appointed by the Secretary of Economics and Economics. The committee was even. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 909/2014 for the improved stock collection in the European Union and for the European Union stock markets. The formula is widely known as the 'Central Securities Depositors Regiment' (CSDR) or CSDR. It is interesting to visit only the website of Nasdaq stock centres in Iceland. It contains a section entitled 'New License on the basis of CSDR◯, which says, by permission of the president: In the November 14, November, issue of the World Council, and November 14, so far, the European Parliament presented a TV report on the stock market and the electronic registration of financiers (CSDRs). Although it is unlikely that it will have time for Christmas to complete the bill, we hope that its treatment will be completed before the Council of the Council at the beginning of 2020 and that the law's office will be early in the year. We sent an application for extension to the current employment permit of Nasdaq CSD, the maternal company of the stock market, based on a CSDR in early October and was judged valid by mid-November. This is one of the important reasons why we can join the more powerful Naziq CSD stock market and thus be able to compete for international services and products. You should point to an interview in the business magazine with Magnús Ásgeirsson, the director of Nasdaq. The prescription of that interview is ▪ Wait for the rules in paranoia. In this regard, the manager says that the changes that follow the most have been done for 20 years. Then, during the interview, the president continues to say: Changes are ahead of us at the stock market, but in addition to changes made by a new system of action, Iceland's stock market is moving toward a cohesion of the Naziq CSD stock market in the Baltic States. This bill is not only to be approved by CSDR but also to what laws apply to the electronic registration and version of the stocks. Now is the time, and I've traced it here, including... by referring to this interview and then on the website of Nasdaq, that Nassaq stock market in Iceland will have a branch from Latvia, a mother's company, and thereby a work permit, as a stock market. Therefore, Nasdaq will no longer be an Icelandic labour centre operating under Icelandic work permit, monitoring and law to the full extent. Nasdaq, in fact, will no longer be an Icelandic company. Nasdaq is defined as two of the most important financial structures in Iceland, and you ask: Is it acceptable that these infrastructures are actually Latvian? It's not an Icelandic company. It doesn't have a work permit from Iceland's Secret Bank. Are the owners of stocks in Iceland satisfied that their Icelandic letters are registered in Latvia with the legislation on ownership? Are there any laws that will apply? On the other hand, have people identified the extra risks involved in all communication with Naziq system across the ocean, so to speak, to Latvia and saving machinery will also exist in one country? In other words, there will be no more in Iceland. Mr. President. It is, in my opinion, an opinion that would have to be viewed much better than now, as we have seen, Nasdaq is entering a maternal society in Latvia. The fact that the company slips into a large conglomerate disappears all transparency, e.g. the cost, and that's when Iceland's business doesn't really show up. Then you ask: Will any Icelandic investors like pension funds ever see the cost of this business? Is it not possible that, as it were, all Icelandic investors may be overexcited? All of these are matters of opinion that would have had to be answered. In recent years, Naziq stock markets have earned hundreds of millions of dollars from the pensions and other depositors as much as the profits that have been derived from this operation during the past few years. So now it will be a foreign possession and its messages will be saved abroad. All decisions, control, management, systems, investments, currency, etc. will have all come to Latvia if this bill is legal. Mr. President. I would have considered it most desirable that the government had pondered and realized what this will mean to a domestic financial market and its infrastructure. This is something that would have had to be discussed much better. So I can't support this bill and will sit next to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u61	A respectable president. I recommend my report as associate minister of the Northlands on the work of the Norwegian Minister in 2019. Reports on the same subject prior to 2017 and 2018 were distributed in the fall, and they are also discussed here. I am happy to start this discussion. The leadership of Iceland in the Norwegian Ministers ended about a year at which Iceland took the lead in the Northern Council. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir is president and why. paritaprevir Vice President Oddný Harðardóttir's Daughter. I wish them both, and the whole Iceland Department, good luck in that important project. The Northern Union is of utmost importance to us Icelanders. The North countries are our second home ground where we can work and study, almost without barrier, and enjoy the same rights as the locals. This has been true of tens of thousands of Icelanders over the centuries. Most of us if we do not all have family members and friends who have studied or serve in the North countries and have brought home valuable knowledge and experience. Today, thus, some 30,000 Icelanders live in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, and Finland, as well as the Faeroe Islands, Greenland, and the Island of Iceland. In view of commercial interests, the whole of the North countries are one of the two largest commercial countries in Iceland, in terms of import and exporting of goods and services. The northern countries are combined to view differences behind the United States, but they are considerably larger than Britain. We should not forget the importance of also being stable and constant as we move around the globe. Our cultural roots are rooted in the fertile northern soil, where art and creative branches flourish as never before. Above all, there is an unscrupulous cooperation between powerful political footprints. This is of prime importance today when it is indeed globally burning and in many ways. I mention here at the beginning this general benefit of Norwegian cooperation because none of this is default. On the contrary, in recent years and decades, the northern alliances decided that the northern countries are stronger together as they form a unit for the entire population of the region. It is important that we, as members of the General Assembly, have this understanding and have an active share in the cooperation. That way we could hold Iceland's interests and enjoy new opportunities. We also need to take care of the social balance that needs to be done in cooperation with many countries. Cooperation must be beneficial to all, not just some, and therefore the Norwegian alliance has been so long and effective. Now, let's move on to the report presented here. As I mentioned earlier, Iceland was the head of the Norwegian Minister for Ministers in the past year, and it can be said that the year was both busy and eventful. The head script of the Iceland Presidency Programme, Good Road, is being applied to the Honaga language. Well, that's a good thing, because this is where we came from. In total, 24 Ministerial meetings were held during the prehuman age, including two meetings of the Northern Prime Minister, and most of them were held in Iceland. National and international conventions and seminaries met at meetings in dozens of numbers, as well as 17 Norwegian or international conventions and seminars. A major estimate of 3,500 people arrived in Iceland during the Prehuman Year to participate in these meetings and events. Iceland's executive projects were in three topic areas, about young people, sustainable tourism and ocean affairs. In all, there are nine coronal prehumanities, three on each of these stings. They are three years old, funded by the Norwegian Minister, and have about $275 million each year. The projects are well started and can be considered in more detail in the report about their contents and objectives. Another focus in Iceland's leadership was to focus more on the Western sector. The NOOS program was adopted, but there is new policy-making in Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, Greenland and the West Noregs, especially in industry and rural areas. This is the first time the Norwegian Minister has set up a policy on the affairs of the Western region. Already the money has been guaranteed, about 45 million. In the first project under the hat of NOUST, policies of the North Atlantic Ocean, and will oversee them by the National Atlantic Center in the Faeroe Islands, NORA. The Icelandic pretence also directed attention to cooperation with Britain and Scotland. That's how you found fellow ministers of the northern states of Edinburgh in September. Meet with a Scottish minister. I believe that Norwegian cooperation with Scotland and the United Kingdom as a whole will only increase. Britain, by Biffit, is not a mystery to define its interactions with other European countries, and Britain's interest in increased cooperation with the North countries has been seen many times. Especially about Scotland and, indeed, Ireland. The North countries were well thought of by me in increasing regional cooperation with all these countries. Mr. President. The greatest project in the prehuman existence was a new vision for the Norwegian Ministers. That work began formally at the end of Sweden's prehumanity at the end of 2018, but it was finally finished under Iceland's leadership in less recent years. After quick negotiations, agreements were achieved on the common objective that the North countries become the most sustainable and integrated region in 2030. Then, in August, the Prime Ministers of the North adopted a vision for their meeting in Reykjavík. This means that the North countries want to make use of the strength of the Norwegian partnership to become sustainable communities and, on the other hand, to remain a single entity where people and businesses move freely from country to country and to continue to foster mutual values and ideality of the North countries. There, digital pity is important. Sustainable and climate issues are in the foreground of the future vision, and the Norwegian Minister has set three priorities for which all Ministers and institutions should work over the next four years. This is the aims of green North countries, competitive North countries and socially sustainable North countries. They all work together to promote the green transformation of our society, to form with a different and better energy use, through the development and induction of green solutions in everything we do and with emphasis on education, research and innovation. This job is going all the way. On Tuesday, I sat on the first meeting of the Norwegian collaborator this year in which plans were adopted for the next four years of action, assuming about 65 new Norwegian cooperation projects and a significant increase in financial and climate resources obtained by setting priorities in existing activities and to some extent by transporting funds between sectors. Mr. President. I've been picking up major issues, projects and events in 2019 in the work of the Norwegian Minister. In addition, the results of the year are, first of all, that high and stable activity was in all work and power, second of all, that the three prehuman activities of Iceland were well established and promising all good, thirdly, that the emphasis on the Western partnership was reached, including, with the approved NOUST, and fourthly, in Iceland's prehumanity, a new vision was adopted for the off - line cooperation until the next ten years, to 2030. This list could be much longer, since much work took place in all the Ministers' conferences, which are too far off here, and will be referred to in the report as it can be read in more detail. Finally, I want to thank other advisers for their contributions to the Norwegian cooperation of the past year, the Northern Council of Iceland and the Western Council, and especially the staff of the councils that have carried the heat and weight of the daily work. I also want to thank the many others who work hard in Norwegian partnership every day, e.g. The staff of the Norwegian house and the Norwegian Society, and the many of our experts throughout the country who are involved in the northern work. All this work contributes to bringing back and building knowledge. With an active donation and participation, we also trust our position in the Northern countries. That's really good for Iceland. I look forward to the discussion here today, but in other ways I refer to the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u62	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech and the overview of the work of the Norwegian Minister. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to whether he and the entire Norwegian Minister have seen an increase in the interest of superpowers, such as Russia, China, and the United States, in the states of the North, and perhaps not least in the north and the highest. Ministers experience some tension that could increase there when resources become visible and become accessible from such sources. Ice in Greenland. You can see the interest of these big countries on the cruise routes and use of resources. Is this something we need to watch? Second, I pray to the highest. Minister to answer, if he has time, the way he feels he's managed to do it with Iceland's executive plan over head in the past year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u63	A respectable president. I want to start with the last question. That cooperation was very successful, and the whole lead plan, and all the projects are promising. You can read about this in the report, but I think it's safe to say that the year has been more than just hoping. It's a small government, but everyone worked hard that everything worked out perfectly. As to the question of interest of other parties, I entered my speech on the interest of Great Britain and the countries there. Of course, it is a large economy, the third largest of our commerce, little less than the entire North countries, which are in second place and the United States above, but it is also true that the traditional superpowers are very interested in all the North countries. We saw to form Angela Merkel, perhaps the leader of Europe, at least Germany, attended the Prime Minister's Summit of the Northern Lands as a sign that people would like to associate with that work. We've seen it before, including. in the United States, of course Russia, and in some respects China, they want to connect with the work being done here, whether in the Arctic or in the Arctic Council, but only with what is going on in the North countries. In our course, we are also saying that we would like to demonstrate as a whole, the North countries, that we are considering with more positive and better communities, and that we would like to invite citizens of the world to look toward the northern countries on an increasing scale, as well as at the commercial level, to see the possibility for the public and companies in other countries to look for northern solutions, and that is why we are so much more. To enter this future view in the green system. We believe that we can help that the whole world will grow greener and that we will become a role model there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u64	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. On all the arts desirable to be on the top of the population of the Northern countries. Peace is our hallmark, as is our trust between people who are more in the north than in most other parts of the world. There was a debate in the Norwegian Minister's Committee to defend the Norwegian model and the three pillars that may have raised us from these arts of prosperity, where we should best live, equal, and justice, i.e. responsible economic management, a healthy labour market, and a welfare system for all, these three important tools under the Norwegian model? Tells you the highest. Minister that this Norwegian model is somehow threatened by changes in climate practices or by increasing technology that are rapidly passing all over? Tells you the highest. Ministers that in all the changes, we do not need to make sure that these three foundations of the North American model will not be altered so that we do nothing less about the arts that will cause us to equalize even less in the North countries and the labour market more unhealthy?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u65	A respectable president. I think North American cooperation sums up the protection of the Norwegian values that are common to all of them. That's why we, who are rather small in the big context but who are the 12th largest economy in the world and have frequent and frequent, like the dog. A senator entered, fought over gold, silver, or bronze, and sat down below when it comes to the art of the people's prosperity. We have also stressed in our work and in our prehumanity year that the whole North countries have voices out. It has also been part of the Norwegian Minister's work in recent years, including to point out the obvious, that the community we've built up in all the North countries is desirable to the population and that this allows us to be more successful in having equal service and equal society, an opportunity for all. In this cooperation, we are internalized like peers, a little to measure ourselves to one another, making sure that we are not inferior to the best. Thus, there is a positive peer pressure in the Northern countries. Thus, the Norwegian partnership is very good, especially for us, who are by far the least. We contribute only 1.3% of our resources, perhaps 1,4,61.6% after the growth of the land production. The benefits are tremendous. In the North countries, we also need to be careful of the challenges the future holds, but I believe that our community structure in the North countries makes us better equipped and should make good use of the energy we would together to show how things can be done in a very good way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u66	Mr. President. I recommend a report by the Council of Northern Iceland on Norwegian cooperation in 2019. I find it interesting, Mr. President, if I may say before I deliver the report, that no senator will sit in the hall, but I rejoice at the highest. We want the Secretary of Transport and Transport to sit here and listen to the President along with the President. I find this interesting because there is a great deal of national cooperation in the government business and it is shown in the Declaration of Cooperation that the main focus of foreign policy is placed on cooperation in the Northern States. I hope it's what it is. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers considering these objects elsewhere in the house. At the Council of the North in Stockholm in 2019, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsdótttir was elected president of the Council of the North by 2020 and vice president of the United States, Oddný Harðardóttir Hardard, U.S.A. At the same time, the Presidential Program of the Icelanders was agreed on, but its main theme is three: misinformation and false news, biodiversity and language understanding between norse nations. The council also adopted a new Council of Community security policy as a special group of work at the head of the Northern Council. I had a seat in that group. A majority of the council members of the Northern Council agreed on a new Council plan for financing of five Norwegian research institutions, including the Norwegian volcano site in Reykjavík. The Norwegian Minister's Committee had withdrawn a previous plan to drop a fixed budget to the institutions, particularly due to the opposition of Icelandic Parliaments and Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, minister of education and culture, when the proposal was to be taken for the treatment of the North Council of Akureyri 2018. The new proposal assumes a longer lead-in period due to the change and further improvements to ensure the norse connections of the strains. During the prehuman existence of Iceland in the Norwegian Minister of Ministers in 2020, a vision of the future was developed for normatic cooperation until 2030. The vision has three policy priorities for green, competitive and social sustainable North countries. During 2020, a cross-cutting projection program will be developed for the period 2021◯2024, which is based on the three focus. In September 2019 the cooperation ministers of the Northern Country Council asked to offer proposals for implementation plans. The Presidential Committee of the Northern Council discussed the matter in December and agreed, including to submit the Council of Transportation, the Norwegian cooperation of electricalisation and road loading and ports, measures to increase language understanding in the North countries and to protect democracy and the level of information and suggestions on equality, culture and sustainable development. Sweden served as head of the Northern Council in 2019 C.E. Jessica Polfjärd, a Swedish right party member, was in charge of the president of the Northern Council of the early part of 2019 C.E. In May, she was elected to the European Parliament, so her brother Hans Wallmark was elected president in her place at her summer session of the Council's Presidency in June. In 2019, Gyða's Valtýsdóttir received the musical prize. When Swedish environmental actionist Greta Thunberg received the environmental prize of the Northern Council, he protested against the inactivity of the government of climate. The report by the Council of Northern Ireland is widely available and contains information on the Council of the North, when it was established, and how it operates. The Northern Council's topic work took place in 2019 C.E. was largely carried out by four professional committees, as well as the prime committee. Between councils, the Presidency Committee directs the work of the Governing Body, refers to committees, or cancels them. The Presidency Committee also conducts foreign and security matters as well as contact between the Council of the North and other international institutions. The Commission then reviews the annual accounts of the Council and institutions of the Northern Union. Finally, a panel is assembled to make a recommendation for committees and confidential positions by the Council of the Northern Country. These committees are prime committees, knowledge and culture committees, economic growth and development committees, sustainable committees, welfare committees, monitoring committees and ideal committees. In 2019, the head of the National Council of Iceland was Director Silja G. Harðardóttir Gjörg Gjörg Gjörg Gjörður, President of the Council of the United States, President of the Council of the United States, Kolbeinn Ollarsson Proppé, and Árnadóttir Þóra Ájörður Ajörnjörður of the Archy of the Archy, Vilhjálmur of the Year, of the Congress of the Independence Party, The Oddný Ingi of Kristinsson, and Anna Kolbrún of the Árnadóttir's Year's House of the Middle Party. The Watchmen were Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir of the Left Green, Braunnar Níelsson's son of Independence, Inga Sæland People, Logi Einar Einarsson of the United States, Willum Þór Þórsson of the Future, and Þöstein Sæmundsson of the Middle East. In 2019 C.E., Þorsteinsson was the secretary of the Northern Council of Iceland. At the beginning of the year, Anna Kolbeinn Ingi Kristinsson, Oddný G.. Ingi Inggi was also a member of the National Council's checkpoint. For the Stockholm Council of the Northern Council, October, Sir Kolbeinn was transferred from a welfare committee to a sustainable committee. In addition, Iceland's representatives were represented by the Council of the Northern Union of the Council of the Norse Institutes. The Steinunn Árnadóttir Aarnaddóttir was in the management of the Norwegian Culture Fund and attended her meeting in Ilulissat, Greenland, in May. Vilhjálmur Árnason was on the National Investors Commission and attended her meeting in Helsinki on February 15 and 24, U.S.A. Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir Gunsdótttir was the head of Council of the Northland at a meeting of the Baltic Sea until her annual meeting in Oslo, in August, she attended, and thereafter she is a deputy. In August, Oddný G. Harðardóttir was the deputy of the Northern Council of the same organization for the annual meeting. She attended the Council of Parliamentary Conference of the Baltic Sea in Brussels on February 21, U.S.A. Oddný was also published by the Council of Northern Congress at a meeting of the Council of Churches on North Poles and at the conference in Ottawa, Canada, 23,◯24. May and in Bodø, Norway, 18◯20. November. Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé was a representative of Generalis of the Baltic Conference. He attended a meeting of the Basel Association in Brussels, February, and Berlin, 10,◯11. November and the annual meeting in Oslo, August Sir Kolbeinn was also acting as the representative of the European Commission of Sustainable Council for a meeting by the United Nations on biodiversity in Montreal, 26,◯27. of November and at the United Nations Climate Conference in Madrid, 10 / 15 December. Vilhjálmur Árnason served as a representative of the European Parliament's Sustainable Commission for a meeting on the EU energy policy on March 20, Brussels. The Northern Council of Iceland met ten times this year. The Department's meetings were offered representatives of the Foreign Office of State, the National Society, the Northern Council of Youth, the information services Hello North countries, the Norwegian House, and other individuals and organizations associated with Norwegian cooperation. Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, associate minister of the Northlands, was meeting with the Council of Iceland this year. The report given to me contains information on this meeting, on key topics and results. Finally, Mr. President, I would like to give you a little something for the Council of the Northland. It is a literary prize, which is a high level of tension, and people carefully observe, musical prizes, environmental prizes, and movie awards. There is always a special celebration at the Council of the Northern Country each time around these awards. There are live broadcasts on national nationwide television, and artists often take advantage of the opportunity they have there to make messages to their communities about all kinds of issues that concern them. Our Icelandic artists, who have been rewarded, sent out a message that is forgotten late. This is an important moment and that artists use the time as they choose. Icelanders take lead in the Northern Council in 2020, as previously said, and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir Gunnsdótttir is the president of the council, and the one standing here is vice president. In 2020, the Northern Council will be held on the days of 30,531. March 26,◯29 will be held in Helsinki and the main meeting of the council. October in Reykjavík. President. I can only point this out of a detailed report on the Generals Web and also in printed copies in the side rooms. There you can learn about the work of the Northern Council of Iceland, which is varied. They are also very important as a link to the Norwegian states.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u67	A respectable president. We're discussing the report of the Northern Council of Iceland. I've been on the welfare board of the Northern Council and the National Commission for almost one year, finally entering the great work there. I am amazed at how effective all this work is and how many lawsuits it covers. The welfare committee has dealt with various matters, and I remember much when I was allowed to recommend matters for the disabled at the Council of the Northern Council of the Council of the United States in Stockholm, 28 to Systems. October. It is one of the things that have been discussed on a welfare committee. As it turned out in my language, the basic thing in all its affairs is, nothing about us without us. You see, that's the main theme. What's also remarkable, and I found out that a welfare committee hasn't been to Iceland, but it's going to be fixed in the summer, and we're gonna get it here in June. She is going to deal with very important matters, two especially, equality, and then the fight against suicide. These are two very important matters, and it will be a pleasure to participate in the discussion with the FREE Committee and meet with all the members who are available to meet in Iceland. One of the most remarkable things being done with the surveillance committee came to know me, and I've had some surprises. I'll admit that during my last trip to Denmark, when the review board went on a patrol trip to Sweden just west of Thomson to visit a Norwegian gene bank, I was kind of speechless. I discovered there a very carefully preserved secret. I knew one thing about this gene bank, had ever heard in the news that he had seeds in Svalbard, where there are hundreds of thousands or millions of seeds all of the Norwegian plants. But it's just a fraction of it, they're scrambling animal stocks and trees as well. The thing that really impressed me was when we got to check out our labs and see in laboratorys what was going on and when we got the information that there was Icelandic red potatoes. They are among the oldest potato species that have come to the northern countries, first arrived in Sweden, and then here. It was very important. There they are also producing potato seeds and all kinds of seeds that can be bought online through this institution. I'm gonna get a little better into this, but I need to be informed. What goes on out there is amazing, and what hit me the most and which I also have to consider is that there are scientists from all the states of the North and nobody from Iceland. The explanation we received was that there was no one qualified or with the right education in Iceland to work in this laboratory. If so, it is a serious matter and needs special attention. I'm not going to have it all any further. I'll follow up on what I've been working on right now and give better reports on it later. Then it's going to be interesting working with a welfare committee here at home for the summer, and hopefully something will come out of that cooperation, as it has so far. I realize this gives us amazing information, but the information that we are on these committees must continue to communicate in order to accomplish it. That is why we need to keep our toes informed about all that is going on there. It's an amazing partnership that's going on in the North, and I have to say, just as it is, it's giving us Icelanders the most amazing information. If we do not make good use of it, however, it will not be enough. That's what we have to do next.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u68	President. Thank you. Councilmen who have mentioned before me in this discussion agree with them on the importance of Norwegian cooperation. Surely, all of us are made of the fact that we often feel that we are dealing with what we ourselves are dealing with, and I am sure that in all discussions of all international work here today, we will feel that this is important to us with the more important things we do. That is not surprising, since international cooperation is extremely important. I'm going to say that in the international cooperation that Iceland and I are participating in, especially through the Generals, there is nothing more important to me than to be in this good cooperation with our closest neighbors, both through the Northern Council and through the Western Council. I think we'll discuss it from here on out. At times, I feel exhausted in the discussion that something more fine is looking further into the world when it comes to international cooperation. The fact is, we compare ourselves with our major neighboring countries, the North countries. At a council, we may not hear much more talk about any territory in the world than is the northern countries, whether we are critical of government policy here, a fan of government policy, where we want to go, or what we have done well. We always look to the northern countries in comparison. We want to get Icelandic society more into line with the good things it can find. Of course, this is not a happy state, since everything is great, but the cooperation of the Council of the North gives us the opportunity to learn from what has been done in our neighbors. It must be said, as it is, that in many ways these nations have been just ahead of us. Then I'm going to draw out, Mr President, what I also find so remarkable in the Northern Community work, and it's the fact how different the state's place is in another international partnership. Some North countries are in the Atlantic, others are not, some are in the European Union, and others are not. However, this has no effect on the good cooperation that takes place within the Council of the North. Here's what they got. Senators who spoke before would do well. And if we were to discuss materially what we have been doing in the Northern Council, we would not be able to do that day, probably not the weeks and the goods, if we could not just see the Allied Council of Iceland talking about the entire course of Congress. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, our responsibility for such international cooperation is to take what we learn and come to the field of international cooperation and bring in. We have many examples, whether it is contained in the queries, laws, sensibilities, or anything else. Our responsibility, however, is that we are in this work, both to have a good influence, but also to learn and to learn. I'm gonna let me talk a little bit about the North countries and the language status. It has been a significant point that representatives from each of the northern countries can communicate in their own language, which is normal when we have a deep political conversation, but I also plan to highlight the importance of learning Northern languages. In recent years, or even decades, changes have been made in education, and I dare not put on the precise timing, since I don't know it well enough, President, in which less and more people seem to accept some of the languages of the Northern countries. We do not have to comment on what English is all around the world and in culture. She's become the new franca franc, I'm sorry about the sleigh, Mr. President. It does not mean that we should acquire more languages, which we certainly do, but I think we need to keep the Northern languages going ever better. Being able to communicate on some of the Scandinavian matters simply opens up a big world that is right next to us. We must not live next to exciting neighbors that we cannot talk to because we do not understand one another's language than we speak in a language that may seem better. That is why I am stressing the development of language education when it comes to the Northern languages. It is also very important to protect the cooperation that has been established in the Northern Council when it comes to young people, when it comes to them through opportunities for education and cooperation between and and work. An example of this is Nordjebb. Some of us in this room may have gone to work on their fine organizations, but unfortunately, some of the appeals have been reduced. So I wonder, like a lot of things I say, President, if there's anything to do and our will to learn the languages. Otherwise, you left. Harðardóttir So very effective is the report that is fundamental, although it is detailed, of course it is. A senator could not handle everything. Iceland is in charge there now, and the executive plan has been introduced. This article will consider a very important point. I'd like to mention one in particular, so not only does my self-involved President, since I am a spokesman for that theme, but that I think it is of particular importance these days. There's information and false stories coming up. This is one of the issues being handled and trying to fight all over the world, and I allow myself again to assert irresponsibility. Wherever we come in our worldwide work and wherever we watch, we are endeavoring to protect that the right information has been delivered and is fighting against the flow of false news. For example, we see a number of conferences and meetings on this case in Iceland, one seminar just tomorrow, since it's in my head, by the National Scientific Institute of Iceland. That's what I'd like to say. I could talk about them a lot longer, but I encourage everyone. Council members of the General Assembly to take advantage of the fact that Iceland is now leading the Northern Council and that the Council will be here in the fall. The work may be visible in Iceland this year, but many others and I encourage all of them. Councilmen to participate in this as much as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u69	A respectable president. I'm just gonna come up right up at the end of the discussion and wish the Council of Iceland to be happy with the prehumanity and provincial. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir happinesss being president of the Council of the North. A chairman of the report today, Oddný new G. Harðardóttir, for just being its vice president. I thank you for your cooperation with the Northern Community department last year, in the Presidential year of Iceland, in the Norwegian Minister's Council of Ministers, declaring a willingness to support and cooperate with the National Council on this important task that is very important, to represent the Northern Council of the Union this year and to be in the presidency at this level. Because the following report will also be discussed, I also thank you for your cooperation with those sitting there and the president of the Western Council. paritaprevir The Goddess of S. Brjánsson. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé came up with the importance of language, which is just one of the things that has been stressed by the Council of the Northern Council of the Norwegian Ministers. I agree with what. Senator. Today, some 30,000 Icelanders live in the North countries, a large number there are studying or temporarily working there. Of course, this knowledge in Norwegian languages is important. We do not know when we are seven, eight, nine, ten, 12, 15, or even 18 years old, where we will land a few years later. Sometimes it is the smartest thing to do in life to visit the northern countries and stay there for a while, whether during school or at work. Then there is a great advantage to understand this, except that in the cooperation we are in, even though we expect our Icelandic to stand equal in other languages, that we are equally lenient, surely helps to have some basic knowledge in the north. Finally, I'd like to say that it really matters how the Council of the North came to deal with bringing this vision of the future into operation for the next ten years. The ideas, the proposals and support that came from the Council of the North, especially now when we're initiating this mission, were the ideas that came from the Council of the North, and the meetings of the current Presidency, Denmark, with the Council of the Northern Council of Environment for All Good Pays. We supported the vision that made it important that we cooperate, on the one hand, with the Commission, the National Ministers' Committee, and the members of Congress. I just wanted to emphasize it with a short number.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u70	Borist has received a letter from the secretary of state asking for every request to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 788, of the committee, staff and management groups, of the Lord Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u71	I bring in a report or extraction from the Western Council for 2019 and note that the whole report is available on the Parliament's website as well as on the council. Members of the Governing Body meet twice a year, on the one hand, in connection with the Council's theme conference in winter and on the other, a annual meeting in the fall. The primary objective of the Western National Council is to work in the best interests of the West-Northern, to protect resources and cultural heritage of the North Atlantic, to promote cooperation between the government and the Western national administrations on important issues, and to be a contingency between Western partners. The Western Council has concluded on a number of issues, including environment, resource and transport, rescue and security, Northern health, culture, sports and youth issues, to name just a few. It will be so that the Western Council is with the oldest member body in the north. The Western Council's Iceland Department was actively involved in the work of the Council in 2019 and was also involved in the development of Western affairs at the General Assembly. The conference was held in the Norwegian house by the end of January of last year. The topic of the conference was the status of the Western countries in the new reality of international politics. The conference was open to the public and cooperated with the International Publicity Institute for the University of Iceland. The lectures of the conference that came from all member countries, as well as other scholars and experts, reported on climate change in the north. It was noted that the evidence of climate change was clear and that their influence was far more effective in the northern regions than in other parts of the world. Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland faced different challenges due to climate change, but all of them would have to face the rising prices of imported food in the coming decades. It was talked about how this could be affected if a cruise route was opened from Asia to Europe and North America through the Arctic. It may involve a number of opportunities for Western countries but also created a risk for environmental accidents and challenges for search and survival. The lecturers specifically identified the state of Greenland, the Faeroe Islands, and Iceland in international politics and identified the military importance of the countries for the superpowers during World War II and the Cold War. This military importance would have diminished in the last few decades, but in the light of changing circumstances in the north, some of this may be the case. It was noted that countries could expand their cooperation in their relations with empires or in transport services. All of them would have the advantage by promoting the protection of the oceans' resources and the delicate natural environment of the north. Along with the theme conference, there was an internal meeting of the Council of Smokeholti, in the city market, where members discussed the work of the Council, purpose, and goals. During the discussion, there were some things that included Based on the benefits of molding the Vestoretic Council's clear, decisive and collective policy on key issues that could be referred to in dealing with outsiders, e.g. Council of the north and the European Parliament. Then there was an interest in increasing the cooperation of the Western Council with neighbors, e.g. correspondent in Northern Iceland, nowivt in Canada and coastal communities in Norway. It was suggested that the Western Council should take the initiative to promote cooperation, for example, by holding the Western American Summit's theme conference in one of the neighboring countries. These questions and questions await the immediate future. A respectable president. The Western world of today is remembered every 23 September. The purpose of making a part of that day is simply to promote cooperation and sympathy between the three neighboring countries, the Faeroe Islands, Greenland, and Iceland. This day, an autumn economist, has been chosen to define Western history and culture in Western America. The day is celebrated in all three countries at the same time as outside in the hands of the Ministry of Education and Culture of each country. As for the project here at home, this time the Norwegian House, the founder of Vigdis Finnbogdótir, the Norwegian Society, and the Western Council, assembled these people for a seminary in the Vergöld house of Vigdís, where people from different sectors presented cooperative and research projects with a walletary emphasis. There, the head of Iceland moved a little indentation. After the seminar, an invitation was made to a solemn reception at the Norwegian house with art shows, guidance, and most not least, well - planned oracles. A annual meeting of the Western Council was held in Inatsart, the Green American Parliament, at the end of October, after which all member countries have held a annual meeting at their Assembly Hall once. This was a trial, starting in Reykjavík at the General Assembly Hall more than three years ago and giving up quite well. It is uncertain whether this will continue, but the next annual meeting will be held here at the International Assembly Hall. Ministers from Greenland and Iceland participated in a summit meeting for this occasion in Nuuk, who bore the title 'Vestur-Northern and the Sea ◯. The annual meeting adopted two conclusions that were sent to the three national conventions for consideration. In the first, the governments of Western Spain are encouraged to explore the potential cutoffs of young air travel between the three countries. The conclusion is that the arrangement could be developed in a similar way to the European Interrail and would increase the possibility that young people in Western America could visit one another and get to know one another's culture and language. It has to be said, as it is, that the Western Council has been a bit preoccupied with discussing young people's issues and how we can drive younger people into Western America better together in games and jobs, in studies and even in sports. The second conclusion calls for the establishment of the environmental rewards of the ocean's governments in these countries. This would bring international attention to the importance of sustainable fishing and protection of the sea and its resources. For the Council now there are two clauses to treat, based on these conclusions made by the Westnoric Council. At this meeting in Greenland, the elected chairman of the Western Council was until the next annual meeting, but the Member States take the lead for one year at a time. The Western Council consisted of two seminars on the Northern Ringboard, the Arctic Circle, in Reykjavík, October, on the one hand, the interests of the Western North and the other on the protection of small languages in the north. In addition, there was a lot of attention to Greenland during the conference and some seminars on the Green American case. It was dedicated, in part, to the comments held by the U.S. president of the United States for the future and possession of the land of Green, Greenland. That year, in 2019 C.E., this subject was widely discussed at the Western Council's scene on our joint meetings. The Western Council's Presidency Committee, consisting of directors of Iceland's Branch, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands, participated in the 71th Council of the North, Stockholm, by the end of October. Along with the council, a prime committee was meeting with the Council of the West Witchcraft and the Council of the Presidency of the Northern Country. The meetings carried the greatest challenges facing the Western language, the affairs of the sea, and the environment in the north. The Presidency Committee had the same chance of meeting with the Western cooperation staff of the Northern States. The man standing here thanked the council and their offices for the government essays to the Westnoric Council on the forwardness of the council, which reaches us at least. once a year before a annual meeting. An interest was found in the Ministers'meeting to include more consultations and conversations than has been observed in the Council's conclusions, content, and implementation. At the Council of the Northern Community, the Ministers of Education and Culture for the Western Council signed the Council's Education and Culture in which there are several practical items chosen from 2002 and will be awarded in the fall of special events in the Fragrette. Then the Council's Presidency Committee had its annual meeting with the European Parliament's delegation in Brussels in December. The members of the Parliament and the European Union raised an increase in the rivalry between Arctic countries and the interest of the superpowers in the Western countries. It was clearly identified in any position e.g. Greenland is. In the fall of 2019, Iceland's Department of Western Council also proposed a bill of changing temporary reimbursement from film making in Iceland, which was adopted by the law to our delight in the Council, at the General of December. This is a particularly joyful subject that one of our representatives in the Iceland Department of the Westnoric Council took the initiative, huh? paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir. This is going to work out that both Faeroe Islands and Greenland are getting the same access to payment for reimbursement at the expense of filmmaking in the EEA. This is a big interest in both the Faeroe Islands and the Greenlands, for there is increasing filmmaking that we know about, especially in the Faeroe Islands, but also increasing in Greenland, and filmmakers are certainly reluctant to come to Iceland if it will be more costly than going to any other country. There we have balanced this difference, and this may also benefit Icelandic filmmakers, being able to impart knowledge and increase the cooperation of these parties. It'll be exciting to see how this works. A respectable president. In 2019 the successful service year in Iceland was the Western Council. During the day's business and along the council, representatives of the department sought to draw closer to those who work in this field as far as possible. The Iceland Department thus visited the Faeroe Islands and Greenland emissary and had helpful talks with the local representatives. There was then a meeting with the chairman of the Ringboard of the North, Dagfinnur the son of Sveinbjörnsson, and Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, president of the Ring Table of the North, who encouraged the Iceland Department in his work, and even told him. that the Weststoreticate could be a key force in the north. The Council would be a land of consultation that was controlled by a host of sea waters and possibly Scotland could join us, which would be a developing Arctic policy. The Western Council formed the only formal connection between the countries in the region and thus would be the only platform that could speak on behalf of an elected local representative. It was a pleasant meeting and a fine thing to know by this enthusiasm at the chairman of the Northern Ringboard. A respectable president. With reference to this urgent and encouraging statement, I shall conclude with the report of the Western Council in 2019 Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u72	A respectable president. First, I want to thank the president of the Western Council. paritaprevir The Goddess of Brjánsson for this report. I'd also like to thank him for his cooperation in the council, especially in his very successful prehuman existence. It must be said, as it is, that man - made, good cooperation, and a good spirit, which, of course, is the basis for success. This may be the cooperation of the Western states, which is a great deal based on the similarity between communities. It is fishing nations, we come out of that process, and we are well - aware of it so that we have a relatively easy time to understand the straggility and the emphasis on our very important communities. We've, because of the busiest transportation, maybe stopped for a little longer in these places but it's been necessary, but the time has been used to get to know the communities we're visiting at one time. I have to say, as it is, after several such trips, I feel that in the course of the past, it may have been most important for the members of that body to get to know these communities as close as it really is. This enables us to be in personal contact with the representatives of these countries. That's how I've been able to make good use of it myself. They may have an impact or may help us with many discussions that turn toward the economy, fishing, and other such things that we also need to be able to deal with. V.E.G. The chairman of the council handled the work well and the work we did. So I'm not going to go over it specifically. But I would like to agree only with what was presented in his speech on our neighboring countries of Northern England, Scotland, and the Holtland Islands, and Newfoundland and nowivt, the neighbor of Greenland, who is our self - control district in Canada, that at our meeting in January 2019, the Smokeholti group was divided into working groups and there we discussed how we saw the future of the Western Council for us. There we entered the language we would use in meetings, but we use Danish or Scandinavian in our meetings. It must be said, as it is, that we too have been trained to master it properly, as well as to help those who are working on it. It has also certainly been a mature member of Congress, that is not a question. I have found this approach that we have only discussed in the council, both formally and informally, to be very interesting. I think it must be an opportunity for the Western Council to consider whether there is a greater combination between Scotland and the nearby islands of Hahltland, and then these Western countries that I mentioned before, Today, and Newfoundland. There's nothing certain that there's necessarily an advantage, but I think there's still a chance we shouldn't let us slip through and explore. We have discussed it, among us and in these meetings, that one and one kingdom would be taken in and that it would be considered how it might affect such meetings and whether we would find a way of making a deal. I think we should continue to examine it and discuss it. I'd also like to come into it only, because we just got back from the Faeroe Islands last week, that it's really good for us to have got to know the Faeroes better and what they're doing. What a joy it is to find the good spirit that prevails in the Puberty community not only among the people but also among the politicians! They're so happy with what's happening in the Faeroe Islands. It doesn't matter which group of people are, everyone is so happy and content with many things going on in the community. They're happy with their transport, they're content with the construction of salmon farms, and they're content with these major factors. Of course, they've been at one time or another. But when the dust is settled, it's cool, you work together in one direction. It's tremendous to see, for example. The company called Bakkafros, which is located in Rönavík, the building project there, and not merely building, but the huge operation that has such an impact on the ever - growing economy. It's fun for an old fisher to come into this station, which is making a total of 250 to 300 tons of crops a day. It's like many of Iceland's biggest freezers are making a total of it. So this is a massive operation, and it is largely built up by technology from Iceland. It also shows the positive effect of Iceland's fishing route on innovation in that country, creating opportunities for exporting an opportunity to become centralized in the business of countries such as Greenland, I now intended to say, but Greenland is expected to be on this market, I believe. There may be a little too cold out there. Backpacking is an enormously powerful company. The whole business was done well, and we were shown factories. That's really cool. They produce 55,000 tons a year, are self-sustained, are self-sustained in all wastes, take all organic waste, shit, bone and weight, and do it themselves. It is an example, and we should look at what Rebblers are doing in these matters, and we should learn from them. We are also to do so in transportation, to learn from them. They are tremendously conceited by what they are doing there. I'm just gonna have to say that sitting on these people's meetings shows you what you're doing in a tunnel, the Eastern tunnel, the 11 miles from Rusaví and the East Island, and the way Thors Harbor, will save a hell of a lot of money. What a wonderful task this small and small nation is under attack! It is interesting to see how they share expenses on the inhabitants by means of specific roads. There are two projects, one of which may be less lucrative, and one that may not be as profitable, but they add together, and all share in paying it down, whether it is a lucrative way or an unattainable way. I think we Icelanders and we here in this house should learn from Rebs how to get together on what we want to do. In this country all of us want to adjust our transportation, but we will never find a way to pay them. All the time arguing about it. There is much we can learn from this. What a wonderful privilege it has been to share in this work! That's rewarding. That's interesting. This will help us. As the great nation in this relationship, we can learn a great deal from the Greenlandians and movers in what they're doing. Of course, they can learn much from us, so in this cooperation, these cousin nations stick together and are doing great things. I thank the Chairman again for his cooperation and a fine talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u73	A respectable president. I'm going to thank you. paritaprevir The Goddess of the S. Brjánsson as president of Iceland's Western Council for bringing here a clear report. I'm also going to thank our fine international secretary for her work and help her with us. We are, of course, six members of the Iceland Department of the Western Council, with the largest embassies, that is, in fact, seven in the Northern Council. Otherwise, our worldwide work is made up of from one to three members of the congregation, apart from those two branches. I just wanted to come into the discussion. Hv. paritaprevir Our work was done very well last year by the Guðjón of S. Brjánsson. There's a lot of opportunity over there. There are three nations generally considered to be small nations, but the territory of these nations is very large. That is what unites us, but at the same time what may divide us in its own sense, sea right here in between. We all feel that the location of these nations is once again very important in this geopolitic reality, and it is therefore a pleasure to have such a connection with western and sophisticated members of Congress. Of course, we've had a lot of news from someone, and I'm going to let myself tell the U.S. President's folly to want to buy Greenland and then an investment in the information systems in the Faeroe Islands that have been cared for by the Chinese. So we see how important this is, and I think there are opportunities for us to strengthen each other and strengthen us together as Western countries in this cooperation. And I'd especially like to enter one of the most important interests of my life, and I think that is the main reason Iceland has managed to move from being one of the poorest European countries to being one of the richest things, but it's free trades and vacations. Today, we have a contract with the Faeroes, the Hoyvík Treaty, which is quite a business deal, and with the largest people we've ever made in the years to take over both goods and services, hunches, and everything else. But this is what I think is also the closest deal, or at least it was the first deal the Gangsters made. It may have taken some time to let him grow up and develop, so it was a big disappointment last year when the Entires broke up. Happily, that resignation has been reassigned in the wake of a political exchange during the Black Cathedral, but it also clearly revealed the importance of our meeting with the members of the Parliament who were able to meet and discuss the matter. It arrived, e.g. It was shown that knowledge and knowledge of the best - known members of Parliament were quite limited in this agreement. It's like this case has only been inside the table of the then foreign minister. The Western Council accurately concluded on this agreement and the importance of his living and I would have wanted to take this conversation a little further in the Western Council, that we, these three nations, should all make a lot of money out of a vacation store. That's right. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson came in earlier, it's too much fun to watch a creature's career and have a chance to come to the Backfrysh, which, of course, is the biggest French company in the Faeroe Islands, but I'm sure with bigger fish farms in the world, and see a much more sophisticated production line built up by modern intelligence and technology. It shows exactly where we can work together, I don't talk about when we're getting caught up, and I think there's a lot of work to have an opportunity to learn from the experience and knowledge of the Entires. Then I wanted to mention something that came up for discussion. The Economic and Business Committee this morning, where we had an open meeting with the bank manager and the vice bank manager, who was discussing challenges for the future in a high-paying country like Iceland, and how we can improve economic growth to the future. Then we come to what is called innovation, how important it is, and to education. I'd like to take this opportunity to relate our tremendously interesting visit to the new high school of the Faeroeses called Glasses, but I think I'll put it right into my mouth. In fact, one school has been put together, in an enormously beautiful and large building that cost quite a lot of money, three schools. There's a standard college or a book school. There's a trade education, there's art courses, and there's also certain sheriffs up to the first level of college. What's so beautiful about it, except for the building, is the ideologies, that children don't have to choose a box, but they can run a bit between them. I find this a little interesting in the discussion we've had here, about how we can encourage interest in industrial education and demand for it, since we probably need more students to choose the possibility of going to trade and technical studies. It's in an open space where people can run a little between, incredibly interesting. Of course, this school has just opened up to them, but I think there's a lot of evidence that this can have a very positive effect on the idea that more people will choose their trade and to-dos, either only or in combination with traditional book studies. I wanted to say this because I think I'm an opportunity and one of many lessons we could learn from the Faeroes. Also, I want to visit the expense of our worldwide work. The following is what comes up. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, who will speak for our northern or Arctic conference. Our most expensive international work is the Western government. Of course, that is because there are six senators there. The Northern Council is also vast, but much of that cost is paid by the Northern Council itself. But we're in the Western Council just working with the Faeroeses and the Greenlandians and taking on bigger shares, half the cost, around it, simply because we're much bigger. The reason is that there are many members of Congress, but it is also that travel costs in the Western countries are high compared with many other transports, and transport is often longer than we would have to travel, e.g. to the capitals of any northern country or to Brussels or something like that. Then it's a good thing we've been able to take advantage of our time to study exactly, as we were saying before, our professional life in the Faeroe Islands and our education and get to know business etc., and that's good, and we can use our time better. Of course, the expense factor is also to be considered. I mention this because I have suggested on the Presidency Committee and the Foreign Affairs that there are regular steps in our international cooperation and that the money is at any given time and the emphasis should be able to change. I specifically mention it because I find northern affairs so important. I'd like to see more money and more energy from the Icelandic Parliament. We have here in Reykjavík every year an exciting event called the Arctic Circle or the Ringboard of the North, where Icelandic senators have often attended and participated. But such conferences are held around the world, and unfortunately, they have not been priorized by Icelandic senators. But I really think that should be a top priority. When you are talking about a north-south language in Iceland's voice all the time, and it's supposed to be loud. I myself, a respectable president, take advantage of the opportunity, I'm here to form also at the OSE Parliament, and there I have come with conclusions, held speeches, and promoted the affairs of the north. I think it is so important that we, this relatively small nation, use every opportunity every time we get an opportunity to talk in an international way about matters that are very important to us and that are in these international politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u74	A respectable president. I just wanted to say a moment in the end and thank you for all the fine discussions here on the Western Council's work in 2019. There's a bit of a deal going through that, at least occasionally, to what extent we should spend money and time traveling to other countries and learning about the ways of other nations. The association between the Western Council is, as I entered my report, among the oldest to be observed among the Northern Parliamentaries. We're supposed to keep it moving. This is important to us. Of course, we're the big brother in this game. The Greenlanders and the Faeroe Islands are in a very special position in this cooperation, since this may be the only place for them to enjoy their international cooperation and to be on their own terms without breathing into their neck language. They think it's important, you feel it. They look to Iceland as lead and sponsor in their struggle for greater independence. They will. But it's a complicated matter, their independence struggle, and it's not a chance to apply it here, but they look a little bit for our carpenter, and we have to live up to the trust they show us in these matters in my opinion. In fact, I have not been working in many different parts of this field, but it does not take much wisdom or highly sensitive socialism to identify the changes that are taking place and attitudes toward the north and the region, and it does not take much of the weight of the discussion, the attitude of the superpowers toward these areas. It's all in fermentation, and it's a big shape. I believe that nations in the region will be careful, but we need to be on guard. The work of the Western Council has been by various means throughout the years, as I did in my speech. We have stressed the subject of the tongue, these three little languages, last year. What we do next is not yet determined. But the debate in the Western Council has become a bit focused on these issues, the environment, the safety issues and the affairs of the ocean, the life of the sea. There are many fears over the vast and growing traffic taking place in the oceans around us. A respectable president. I'm not going to keep this all out of my way but, of course, let me thank our good assistants. We wouldn't be very well off without it. It keeps us busy and keeps us busy every day, and it takes quite a bit to stay on the subject. The director of the Western Council challenges this up and down. paritaprevir In the case of one of the best commissionees, Brutish Haraldsdóttir found that it is a report and a summary in our hands. I thank you very much for your good work. And thank you very much for the brilliant cooperation of Iceland's representatives in the Western Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u75	Madam President. We've been discussing reports on the Arctic community service, and now we've increased a bit, crossing to the Arctic area, as it is often called. Rather, I am here or tore up the report of the Iceland Parliamentary Conference on North Pole by 2019 C.E. First, I'm going to discuss this conference in a few words. There may not be many who know it, but this is the conference of members of Congress from the North Pole or North Pole as well as representatives of governments, university institutions, and members of society that are concerned with these issues. The first conference was held in Reykjavík in 1993, this is so old, and it was formally set up on this Council of Parliaments on North Poles. This is a short - term SCPAR, entitled "Conference of the Parliamentarians of the Arctic site, " with the permission of Mrs. Chairman. So it was formally set up in 1994. The committee is the Directorate - General Assembly Conference on North Poles, held every two years. Between the conferences every two years, the chairmans of the Subcommittee meet the entire job and participate in this conference every two years. The main objective of these national committees is to organize and follow its approval, as well as to follow closely the activities of the Arctic Council, which is once again proposed, as one knows. The Parliamentary Committee usually meets three times a year, whether it is a conference year or not, and one member of each member of the Member State sits on this committee; Iceland is the head of the Iceland Department. The U.S., Canada, Russia, and the Northern states are represented. In addition to the European Parliament, a permanent representative. Some members of the Parliament, indigenous and ethnic groups in the north have the right to participate in discussions, such as the Northern Council and the Western Council. This was merely a general matter of this panel and a convention. In 2019 the National Institute of Iceland, or Icelandic committee, appointed the chairman of President Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Lowik Anna Sævarsdóttir, and Leví Gunnarsson. The villains were Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, and Smári Mccarthy. The U.S. Secretary of Iceland has been Arna Gerar Bang and is a big glue for the operation of this committee and has been doing a great deal of good work for years. As noted earlier, the President of Iceland is on behalf of the Council of Congress, which is this one senator, who in his premeditated trial is the vice president of the Committee. All of Iceland then attend a conference of the Committee, so I repeat, held every two years. The Iceland Department gathers as needed, and the chairman explains the work of the Parliamentary Committee and members of the Commission are also informed of the work of the Arctic Council, and there are discussions, etc. The Iceland Department held three meetings in 2019. In general, about 2019 C.E. At the U.S. Senate Committee on North Poles, this year the highest discussion of climate matters, the European Parliament's Presidency Programme, the results of the last Ministerial Conference of the Council, and how to contribute to continued stability in the area. The Commission, as usual, stressed the environment and looked particularly at climate change. Climate change is the largest threat in the north, and the members of the Parliament's Committee were told how to minimize their negative consequences not only but also how to prevent further warming. Patients usually have a discussion, including how to reduce the temperature rise caused by climate change, which is twice as fast in the area as in other parts of the world. At the same time, Iceland's Presidential Program in the North Pole was in focus, while Iceland took the lead for two years of Finnum in May 2019. The European Environment Agency shall submit the Commission to the Commission's Commission on the basis of the Commission's Commission on the basis of the Commission's Commission on the basis of sustainable development in the north, which indicates that the main objective of the Council requires cross-border cooperation and is a reminder that the work of the Council has been focused on ensuring sustainable development in the region. The plan, so I'm going to put it into practice, has three main priorities: the issues of the sea, climate, and green energy solutions, as well as the people and communities in the north. In the work of 2019 representatives of the Iceland Department, including the U.S.A. Stressing the digital North Pole and the importance of supporting language technology and its development in the north. Thus, the Arctic population could be active participants in the digital world. Then the need to maintain strong international cooperation in the north was directed to promote continued peace and stability, i.e. minimise tension and maintain a peaceful atmosphere in this area. Other issues that were on top of the Council Committee include oil pollution in the Arctic seas, education, biodiversity, and worsening communication between Russia and the United States. In addition, discussions were made about the policies of Member States on Northern and regional equality. North countries are becoming increasingly more important, both in the political world, Mrs. President, and when it comes to climate issues, and, of course, we have to take good care of them as best we can. I'm just going to reenact a single meeting this year of 2019 without getting very deep into it. In 2019, the first meeting of a Senate committee on North Pole was in March of Murmansk, Russia, and there was a number of discussions, but what called special attention was that the Russian ambassador for the Arctic, Nikolay Korchunov, spoke of Russia's northern direction at this meeting, and there he criticized Britain's policy of defense in the north, and what he mentioned as military structures under the hat of NATO. I'm here to mention this because there's been a agreement between members of the Senate conference or her committee and the Council of North Pole to keep defense and security out of discussion or we'll give them their lectures. In fact, he was questioned about climate change, and it was interesting to know that floating natural gas was the main focus of Russia's opposition to climate change. This is because the release of liquid natural gas from carbon gases is much less than ordinary oil or ordinary gas and coal. They see in this particular opportunity to contribute, as everyone knows, that Russia is huge, producing huge amounts of carbon fuels, and using very large amounts of it, e.g. in energy production and heating of water. But I'm not going to retrace this meeting anymore. I'd like to say a few words about a meeting of members of the Council on North Pole in May, Ottawa. In particular, we presented to the committee that Iceland formally took over the lead capita of Finnum at the Council of Development at Rovaniemim, just before May 2019. The focus of Iceland was explained, and the chairman spoke in particular about the need for the U.S. senators and members of the European Parliament to attend all meetings of the Parliament, but this has not been the case. They needed to find ways to make sure that these parties had their representatives at all meetings and that was a good decision, and they wanted to explore ways to do so. I'd like to use this opportunity to remind you of the Western Council and the Northern Council in these meetings. Even there, they even moved. Páll Højgaard, vice president of the Western Council from the Faeroe Islands, wrote his language and suggested that the protection and growth of languages be emphasized in the Western countries. This is an example of how these representatives contribute to the situation. Oddný G. Harðardóttir, representing the Council of the North, discussed, including, on the emphasis on the prohibition of black oil, which, of course, could have continued serious consequences for the environment and the global climate of itself as a result of waste pollution and high carbon gas emissions. The next meeting of the Senate Committee on North Pole in Bodø, November It discussed the security issues of the north, but not as usual, but only how important it would be to keep them out of the Senate Committee and the Parliamentary Conference to maintain the peacefulness of the region and good spirits in cooperation, while it was our contribution in the Icelandic Commission, it would be important to find the topic of discussion, of the North Pole defense and security, outside the Arctic Council of Congress, and to find an arrangement that would be acceptable to representatives of the superpowers. Our focus on this meeting in Bodø was three. First, digital development in the North countries, i.e. a good relationship between beds in this area. Secondly, a test of permafrost. It is present in vast quantities in these regions, releasing both methadone and carbon dioxide when it thaws. There would be a need for research in that area. Third, to emphasize the so - called indigenous educational project in the north, a kind of native schools, even movable, where the natives introduce us to the rest, both the inhabitants of the Arctic and the rest of the world, their vision of nature and nature protection. They have, let's say, a certain ethics that is largely common in this area, and it's very interesting and good for the rest of us to listen to them. That is why we have stressed the design of such a learning project in the north. At the same time, the Council of Congress was the northern dimension of Bodø. The northern dimension is the European Union, Iceland, Norway, and Russia's cooperation site on the development of regions north of Europe and was set up in 1999 and has been a somewhat biologically active place. There we attended the conference, the chairman of the Council of Northern Ireland, and now president of the Council of Northern America, Guðjón Brjánsson Gunnarsdóttir, president of Iceland's Western Institute and now Chairman Arna makes Bang a custom. The main issues of this conference were international cooperation in transport and marine safety in the Arctic, environmental cooperation within the northern dimension and sustainable tourism and cultural metropolitan activities. At the same time, there was a debate over improved health and social well - being in the region of the northern dimension and the forward vision and the development of the policy of this cooperation field, which is the northern dimension. The Chairman of the European Commission participated in creating the Summit declaration, stressing the extra effort on the carbon balance of soil forest and protection and showed the need to strengthen cooperation in the digital communication and information sharing within the north-south dimension. It is to be noted that in the meeting, a very pleasant, clear link between climate and north business activities was included, and it was included in the statistical objectives of the Paris meeting on the part of the Russians, which must be considered a fairly significant event. It is proper to state that these statements are adopted unanimously. Finally, in December, I will discuss an additional meeting of the New York and Washington Council Committee. There we were, the overseer of the Icelandic League, Eirik Sivertsen, chairman of the Council of Congress, and Finnish senator Miko Kärnä, chairman of the Finnish Committee. The purpose of these meetings was to enhance the connection between the Council of Congress and the United Nations, the U.S. Congress, and the government agencies. The meetings were organized in cooperation with Iceland's embassies and regular committees, Finland and Norway, with the United Nations. In New York, the tribunal representatives of the United Nations Environment Agency, the UN Developmental Cooperation Organization, represented the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Convention of the United Nations, and also met with an organization called DOA BOA, a legal office on the issues of the sea and sea legal matters. This was a number of great meetings, and it was very effective. Further, in Washington, the Norwegian senators met several U.S. senators and discussed the importance of ensuring participation in the Senate events. It would be best for a permanent international committee to exist in the United States Parliament. It was highly accepted to respond to a meeting invitation from the Council of Congress, but it was considered difficult, or even impossible, to have some form of international committee on the affairs of the north in the U.S. Congress. Emphasis was made to enable members of certain litigators and to invite them to all meetings. It has to be noted here that the pot and pan of the North Pole in the United States have been senator Lisa Murkowski, and we will also meet her on this journey. Finally, on this trip in the so - called Wilson Center Polar Institute, a private agency, we could call it. There may have been specific projects that were worthy of mention and that were to be considered in the following issue. It was a field of defense and security in the north, in a broad sense outside the Arctic Council and outside the Parliamentary Committee. This could be a conference in which scholars from many countries present their findings and interprets to stewards, politicians, and other scholars. Such a conference might be repeated and may even move from place to place with a different format, which would say a conference to discuss defense and security in the north. Second, see if the new international year of Arctic regions could be established, i.e. the year of the polar region, e.g. The IASC International Scientific Committee, or IASC, as we would like to say, by other scientific committees and institutions. And third, the need to establish a scientific study plan for possible fishing in the north. This is a list that I think needs to remain in the discussion as a project. It is clear that the North has become and should be more important in international discussions and the opposition to climate change and adaptation to climate change. It can be stated here and now that it is beginning to be revised in Iceland's Arctic policy, the focalal policy, which was last handled as a matter of Congress with a long report in 2011. It is a parapolitic committee. Under this report, dated February 3, 2020, and I have taken lightly, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson writes president of the book Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir of vice president and Bea Leví Gunnarsson. The report is presented here at the General Assembly but is, of course, available on the council website. By that, Madam President, I have concluded my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u76	Madam President. I present the report of the European Parliamentary Commission EFTA and EEA by 2019 C.E. The European Free Trade Association, EFTA, and the European Economic Area, EEA, play an important role as the foundation of the Icelandic foreign trade. With its involvement in the EEA, Iceland is largely the same business group as 30 other European countries, with some 500 million markets. In addition to the implementation of the EEA Convention, EFTA has built a powerful network of free trade agreements with non-EU countries or so-called third countries. The U.S. Senate Department of Parliamentary Committees EFTA and the EEA will form the General Assembly committee both on the EFTA and on the European Parliamentary Committee. At that time, the Iceland Department, along with four members of the State Department's Department of Foreign Affairs, will form the General Assembly Committee for the Joint Council Committee of Iceland and the EU. I'm not going to go through every aspect of this report. I'm going to go to a big part of the main event and show people that it's very interesting to read the whole report because there are both interesting points on the structure and history of the Senate committee but also about the individual meetings that we had during the year. In 2019, the Director Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Braunr Níelsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, and Jón Gunnarsson, was a member of the Council of Iceland. The warrs were why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, Halldóra Mogensen, Páll Magnússon, Vilhjálmur Árnason, and Þorsteinn Víglundsson. On December 4, 2018, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, of the VG Seat of Andrés Ingi, was taken as an assistant in the Iceland Department. The secretary of Iceland was Stígur Stefánsson, head of the International Department. Then I held for Iceland's executive position on both the EFTA and the European Parliament's Committee for Congress in 2019, as it is a radical arrangement and prehumanity at this time of the year to the Norwegians. At the review of the European Parliamentary Committee and the EEA on the EEA Convention and its activities it was customary to review the number of EU types on the internal market that await recording in the EEA Convention, on the other hand, the EEA/EFTA Member States, which measures the rapid introduction of the types already adopted into the EEA Convention. It is important to record the contract and induction in the EEA/EFTA countries without delay to ensure a legal agreement in the internal market which is one of the only essential factors for its effectiveness. Iceland has improved its effectiveness in this field, but in 2018, the General Assembly's guidelines on how to conduct the treatment of the EU were reviewed with a view to increasing the effectiveness of EU production and production. The rules were set up at the beginning of 149th C.E., so in September of that year, 2019 was the first full year of the new rules. It's been going pretty well. I'm a little better at the EEA Convention later, but there's been a little more than EFTA free trade deal with non-EU countries called third state, very high on the Council Committee of EFTA, as in earlier years. EFTA has been on a global level in free trade agreements, which are now 29 treatable and include 40 countries. This year, in effect, a contract with Mercosur, a union of four South Americas; Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay, and Brazil, was completed. The contract is now on a legal tour, awaiting the signing. In addition, EFTA has been in a vacation business with India, Malaysia, and Vietnam, although these may run miserably. The talk with India has lasted for ten years while discussions with Vietnam have gone much faster. In that case, EFTA has undergone an update of earlier vacation contracts that are primarily about to expand contracts that were previously limited to products and to add other aspects of modern free trades such as services, rights to think, measures of issues, public shopping and sustainable development. The EFTA Senate Committee in recent years has loyally supported the construction of EFTA holiday contracts, including those in the United States. by means of emissaries and senators calls to promote and support such agreements. To this end, the Directorate of Parliamentary Committee EFTA went to visit South Korea in 2019 and had discussions with the former government, members of Congress, institutions and stakeholders on the increase in economic cooperation with EFTA with South Korea and particularly with the 2005 national holiday trade agreement. Part of the motivation for the voyage is that the European Union has recently updated its agreement with South Korea, which is responsible for much more factors than before. It has been decided that EFTA will try to keep at least the European Union where it is impossible to do better. It is noted that the EFTA Free Trade Convention of South Korea at its time was actually ahead of the European Union, not very often. Britain's evictions from the European Union, the so - called Baltrexit. That was repeated. Then a business venture with Britain was covered after EU discharge and thus from the EEA Treaty, which is a huge interest in the state of EFTA. Britain is the largest business partner in both Iceland and Norway in the EEA. Three possibilities have been mentioned mainly in the context of the future directive of these enterprises. First, the four EFTA countries made a contract with Britain. Second, it would be considered that the three EFTA/EES countries, without Switzerland, had been able to negotiate such a deal, and thirdly, each EFTA State would make a two- sided agreement with Britain. The result will likely depend on what kind of agreement Britain and the European Union will make between their future relationship in the months ahead, and actually we were at the Council Committee of Brussels earlier this week, in which we received an excellent presentation of the situation, in view of the fact that Bbifit has now taken place. I'm not going to go much further into Bgret unless it's specifically desired, but I think the majority of people have become quite doglike in that endless language. Other issues that were at the top of the Parliament's Committees of EFTA and EEA this year include trends in the international trade and state of the International Business Agency, the provision for work protection and sustainability of free trade agreements, elections for the European Parliament, EU trade policy and the response of the Parliament to the #meto movement. If I am to mention only the position of the World Trade Agency, which is a significant concern, it was just before Christmas that the Agency's court actually became deactivated. At the court, there are generally a considerable number of judges, but due to U.S. opposition to a judge's orders, first in the Obama period and continuing in the reign of Trumpur, there has been no success in appointing a new court order. Judgments thus have a fixed time of command that lasts for several years, and if time cannot be replaced, the court will simply empty out. It always takes a minimum of three judges to get results in judicial cases, they must not be fewer than three, but in December there were two who completed their time of order. This means that the World Trade Organization does not really have the ability to resolve any issues that arise, either with regard to GATT, GATS and TRIPS agreements or their secondary agreements. If this is not resolved, it may be this year or in the coming years that are truly harmful to international commerce worldwide. It is not that the United States was opposed to the orders of some vandalism; rather, it was about the appropriate conditions of the judges, and they wanted to renew that system, as well as to set clearer rules about the operation. Now I may be getting a little deep into this subject, but it's important. During the past three and a half years, the United States has actually stopped saying exactly what they want. I hope it's resolved. But I come back to the Senate Committee, such as this, was very traditional in 2019 C.E. The Parliamentary Committee met twice in connection with EFTA conferences. Furthermore, the Directorate of Congress had a meeting with members of Parliaments, Council Committees, and Directors of Free Trade, as mentioned earlier. The heads of the European Parliament's Council Committee for Congress met with key members of the European Parliament following the election to the European Parliament. It was an idea that came up in 2018, and we did it. In effect, we were beginning to improve our dealings with the European Parliament, which, unfortunately, are sometimes rather gloomy. The European Parliament ceases a small amount to forget about the existence of the EEA from time to time and it is important for the EEA Senate Committee to regularly remind us of our importance in this large context. At that time, the EEA Parliamentary Committee regularly met for a meeting during the year. I'm not going to trace the unique details of all the meetings we had, but there were many and a great many things that came out of them all. But at the end of this, it is important to put this into context with international developments. There's a growing tension in international trade, there's a toll war going on. As a result of these traditional goals at a vacation store, it may be more important than has been in recent decades that both EFTA and EES are very powerful jobs, as well as for EFTA itself as a multinational organization. They may not have any special appearances in the air. The whole job's going very well and very well. However, it is important that the International Parliament and the Icelandic State do well to support this important activity, especially when we are having difficult discussions with various countries on the role of sexual equality, human rights, and other factors that do not all countries agree to live within a free business discussion. Still, there is something that Iceland and Norway have promoted, and I'm not minimizing the elements of Switzerland and Liechtenstein. As the talk of a vacation store in general becomes more difficult, these human rights will become even more difficult to uphold. This may be the main thing I'd like to mention. As I said before, the report itself is a fairly well - versed review of everything that was going on with us, and I just hope that the next year will be as good as it was in 2019. Under the report of the Committee, Prime Director Smári Mccarthy, Vice President Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Braunr Níelsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, and Jón Gunnarsson are written. I'm going to say that I went out of the report a little bit, so that's not all I necessarily told here about this reason. Senators who signed with me, but the report stands as a complete independent document.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u77	Madam President. Thank you. President of the Iceland Department of EFTA and EEA for his story. During his last year of work, he did a great deal of well - thought - out work and perhaps no reason to go into it. I just wanted to kill on a few things and one of the things that have happened to us very often, and before I joined the Committee, it's a blessing to the Bgret. It may be just beginning, for we were coming from a meeting on the Tuesday when it was just discussed, i.e. the next step that the British are trying to achieve a joint decision with the EU on some kind of agreement. Given the time they're going to do the job, I'd think it might go downhill, at least On the basis of how it worked out. It can be assumed that this will not be the case, but it was almost at the end of the meeting that even one contract may be signed entirely by the end of the year, and then we may be facing the British becoming a similar arrangement to Switzerland, that is, in effect, the only thing you feel is in the eye of that. But, of course, it matters to us too, and the other nations that are with us in this cooperation, how treaties will be reached, no matter what the rest of us do. At the meeting held in Vaduz in October, Aleen Mcleod, a Scottish senator at the European Parliament, who was just going over a matter from the standpoint of Scots, was deeply concerned about this espionage agreement, and the result became clear of what it will do in Scotland. Scots have relied heavily on European labors and have been very concerned about how to manage both the health and the care sector by Bgret. At this meeting, the communication between Switzerland and the EU was also discussed, how they had responded to a national law that they held in 2014 to limit the flow of immigrants to Switzerland. That's what upset the whole thing. We are, of course, under the contracts involved. 26% of the population in Switzerland are foreign citizens, and there are others who come to work across the border. I'm worried that this case will be something like that. Very difficult for the British to travel, free passage, and flow between countries. I think it also comes about how it will be won, not just to us, but to the EU and other nations, since it appears to be rather rigid. During the meeting in Strasbourg last year, there was a debate over the response of Congress on the work force, and it took the initiative of the Iceland Department. There it was. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson's son, with history, witnessed even. to study the International Parliament of the Union and the Council of Europe on the scope of sexual harassment and sexual harassment during the European Parliament. Of course, 85% of the female members of that study felt that they had been victims of spiritual violence. She also told of how we political women in Iceland participated in the #methoo movement, were very comfortable with it. I also mentioned in this regard that we were going to try to make a careful and thorough review of the results of this investigation by the International Parliament and the Council of Europe. I hope all members and staff have participated in this survey, perhaps one of the tools and tools to help us deal with the massive project this is, unfortunately. It is also supposed to be comparable to this survey that was conducted there. This meeting also discussed the future work of the Senate Committee. Letters were covered that had been between the presidents of the EEA and the EFTA and the European Parliament's gate. So they were wondering, on our side, always coming together in Strasbourg, rather than being in exchange. It was rather dramatic last time we had it here in Iceland, and that's why we were wondering about it, both to get someone to speak to us and to be able to have a conversation on a wide foundation, etc. It was one of the ideas we discussed. The conclusion was that after the last election, there seems to be more interest in caring for this more fully so that we will be visited by the May Congress from the European Parliament. I really hope that it will be a good part because this relationship is important to us, and it is also important, as I said, to expand the horizon, to see what everyone is doing in this cooperation. The head of the Committee only came on when we went to South Korea to try to pressure the government to update the agreement. He's getting pretty old. The United States signed 2010, which is far better than our holiday contract. Thus, the EFTA countries will only have a foothold for competitors, both from the United States and from the EU at the Korean market. We wanted to try to help them increase the markets of the land, both for agricultural and marine products, for revised sources of origins, fortification of the technical business barriers, and in general for increased service freedoms. Because this contract is so old, it doesn't include business and sustainable development, much less the human rights union that has now been added to a lot of contracts and is included in all the contracts involved. We had an opportunity to discuss two - sided relationships. The preceding discussion was northern issues, and I only discussed them there. South Korea has an audience at the North Pole and we know the interest of these nations, both theirs and others, in the Arctic. It's important that we cooperate with the audience to protect the Arctic interests, I think there's a great need for that. The summer meeting, held in Malbun, Liechtenstein, was in just another format because EFTA Advisor, a member of the labour market, was also present at that meeting. There was a slightly different appearance. Even there was a number of them. Business and sustainable development were being discussed, and there was a team of workers with proposals for work protection and sustainable development that have actually been in all agreements since 2010. However, it was just ahead of discussion during the last few years that was suggested in an effort to improve the equality emphasis on text that emphasizes commitment to respect human rights and democracy and all that is under it. It has been criticized that it is one thing to put something into the agreements and another to try to follow through, which is at least to get men to accept it at all first. A respectable president. We're running out of time. I agree that after our trip to Argentina, where we meet a representative of the Mercosur states, we see in our country a deal that I think matters and shows that the pressure we're giving by visiting these countries is bringing results. That is certainly what we need to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u78	Madam President, I'm sorry that I didn't make myself completely understandable here. I was going to go back to what I said. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, but took advantage of this opportunity to review only what both president and vice president of the U.S. Senate Committee EFTA and the EEA considered in their speeches, and I thank them very well for that. At first, I'd like to declare how happy it is to wake up. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy was chairman of the EFTA Council Committee and directed all committee meetings. I think it's very good when Icelandic senators take lead in this kind of work. It's also interesting what's tore up here in the report, and both president and vice president came in, and it surprises no one how much Bgret has been in the history of the Council Committees EFTA and EES during the past year. There will be tremendous political news that the British will walk out of the EU to try to achieve similar rights and bargains as we have here through the EEA Convention. And maybe, like a whisk. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir came in, that the British are not even ready to take in all that is required of them. We have often here at the General Assembly Hall discussing free trade agreements, and they play a significant role as the foundation of Icelandic foreign trades, and they are incredibly important to us, as EFTA is in the world's aim for free trade agreements. As the report shows, 29 treaties are in effect and 40 countries are included. It's hard to believe that the Mercosur deal is actually finished, and now it's just gonna go on a legal tour and that deal is waiting for signing. It's a huge step in a vacation contract that Iceland is involved in. I've been talking about the introductions of the holiday contracts that require respect for human rights and democracy. I see here in the report that EFTA has been working to prepare new contracts but also to update older vacation agreements, which are primarily about to expand agreements that are limited to the trading process, in order to include them. to think rights, to solve issues and sustainable development. Perhaps it would be interesting to have some. An officer here to tear this thing down because we have here at the General Hall a little over and often over these openings. In the introduction, it has been the will of many members of the Parliament to give a bold statement when it comes to respecting human rights and democracy in the countries where we are making free business agreements, which have been the highest contracts that have been planned and have been confirmed by the council of the Philippines but also with Georgia. I'd love to hear it. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy about where that work is at the time when it is time to discuss these things in the introductions as well as when it comes to sustainable development. It would be interesting if the senator saw fit to come up here for a little more talk to tear this up a little bit. Otherwise, I'd like to thank the members of this Senate committee very much for their work. From reading this report, we can conclude that it is taken up by Icelandic senators in an important way. I continue to encourage them in their international work. But as I say, it would be interesting to hear more about what I mentioned in my speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u79	Mr. President. I thank you for your good speech and good questions. Even if it's wrong, I'm going to try to answer the questions. For the past few years, EFTA has been working on creating a new contract section, or it can be said that the template for free trades, which is about to promote sustainable development. It's a very progressive step. There have always been some regulations that have been proposed by EFTA for the past few years. But now it's this TSD thing, as it's called, or the Trade and Sustainable Development. This new chapter is very good in many ways. Of course, one might always say: " Yes, but there should be more to do. But if you look at international and international relations as the art of the potential, I think that it was quite successful to make those choices. And then we're just going to have an experience on how to get third of the countries we're making negotiations to accept the initiatives to support our negotiations. I think, in any case, it's always important that we keep those points up. But we also need to consider what is realistic. While there is much work to do in promoting human rights, many countries in the world are sensitive to this and sensitive to criticism. We need to see what the experience of this TSD phase will be and how much will come out of it. Then there's the question of follow-up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u80	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for the counter, I think he did quite well with this project, which is exactly how to work together the free trade agreements and establish terms of human rights, democracy, and even climate and sustainability. It is difficult, and it may be viewed by many as a vacation agreement that is not to be dealt with. Nevertheless, I believe free trade agreements are just an amazingly powerful tool to pressure a certain improvement in the countries we want to own the trade and business on, as it were. A senator came on, an amazingly powerful device to push such a thing. Like what? A senator may have developed the art of the impossible to intervening these views, but I have full faith in the fact that the U.S. senators can accomplish much. that the journalists might be set free. In this regard, therefore, there are many things that can be accomplished. Then there's the sustainable development I'd like to hear more about in the case of the head of the Iceland Department how its senators see that sustainable development can be supported by the development of free trade agreements in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u81	Mr. President. It's absolutely true that this pressure works. When we were late, e.g. For the recording of a vacation agreement with the Philippines, as was done here, it created a particular pressure that is important. Even if the experiment is, in my opinion, the experiment, that we want free trade agreements with states like the Philippines, it's a lot to say to push a little bit, then we'll promote these views. Among the changes made in the TSD section or in sustainable development phases were changes in terms of equality focus and agreement commitment to respect human rights and democracy and the state of justice under major international contracts. Of course, it just comes into the big context. In fact, countries cannot skim one another to obey anything, but we make agreements in the hope that there is at least a mutual will to improve the status of each country but also that countries also improve themselves. I don't think it's anything to do with these efforts, whether by being a little boring with the Philippines or Turkey or any other state. Although I am, e.g. I imagine that recent problems in Brazil will come up with a discussion when that deal is approved by the General. In any case, it is important that we do not use this in the way that we say, " These are the rules, and we insist that all follow them. ' [[The president calls.]] We're supposed to use this as an opportunity to have the conversation. By doing so, hopefully the results will be achieved in some way as time goes on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u82	Mr. President. As chairman of the European Council for Iceland, I present the annual report for the National Department by 2019. I would like to start by talking in general about the Council of Europe and the Council of Europe, perhaps especially since this year is 70 years from the turn of the European Council of Europe. The European Council was founded on May 5, 1949 of ten Western European countries. The number of Member States is now 47, with a total of about 800 million inhabitants, forming a single unbroken political entity in the continent of White Russia and the exception of Cosvo. The role of the European Parliament is to protect the core ideals of member countries for human rights, democracy and legal states, as well as for promoting economic and social progress. With that objective, the counsel will even use it. The format and agreement of a binding international agreement. The European Court of Human Rights is the best known and established by the European Court of Human Rights. The Court will treat counts from Member States, individuals and groups due to alleged violations of the rights of the European Convention and its judgments are binding on national rights for the State. It may be worth remembering now that the head of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg's last days has been defended by the head of the Court of Human Rights. Controversies and international treatys of the European Council have had widespread impact on the entire continent. The number of covenants of the Council in various aspects of national life is an important measure for nations that are developing democracy and justice, but the measure of the European Council also applies to other international organisations and international organisations. Since the end of the Cold War, the Council of Europe has been The key role of supporting democracies in CEE countries, including with technical assistance in the area of law and government development, as well as election control. Since the fall of the Berlin Wall, the number of members of the Governing Body has increased rapidly. Montenegro is the newest member of the United States, which broke off national relations with Serbia after a national payment in May 2006 and became a member of the Council of Europe in May 2007. The European Commission is responsible for its administration by the Ministers of Ministers in the Member States or by their permanent representatives in Strasbourg. The European Parliament is a representative of the National Parliament of Member States, but the Member States and the Member States also agree to one group of local and regional governments each year. The Council of Europe is a kind of the European Parliament's concept of politics, economics, social issues, human rights, environmental and energy, cultural and educational issues. At the Council of Europe, 324 members of the Council sit and provide just as many. Unlike the Council of Europe's Ministers, where each country has one vote, a number of delegates will follow the size of a nation. At the council, there are nine regular committees and six groups. At that time, the president, 20 vice presidents, presidents of regular committees and groups of members of the Council's Commission, oversees its internal affairs. The same group appoints the Parliament's board of directors, along with the heads of the departments of the country. It gathers quarterly, one week at a time, usually in January, April, June, and October, in Strasbourg, France. The Board of Directors meets three times between meetings. Finally, in Strasbourg, a joint committee of the Council of Ministers convened together with meetings of the European Parliament. The role of the European Parliament is primarily to take initiatives to conduct and direct proposals to the Minister of Ministers, to oversee the scope of international commitments, and to pressure Member States for quick action in case of failure and also to be a platform for the communication and consultation of members of the Member States, thus strengthening the culture of democracy and strengthening the ties of Congress. The European Parliament's meetings discuss and reason on the basis of committees. The Parliament can direct recommendations and opinions to the Minister's Committee that deals with them and responds to events by direct action. Thus, the European Parliament takes very often initiative in making multinational covenants legally binding on Member States. For example, in 2008 the European Convention on Human Rights Action is rooted in the conclusions of the Council of Europe between 1997 and 2002. There, governments are encouraged to take concerted measures to curb the organized criminal activity of human halls. The European Council's treaty to combat sexual violence and domestic violence, also known as the Istanbul Convention, is also in line with the conclusion of the Council of Europe. The Istanbul Convention went into effect in 2014, and Iceland validated it in April 2018. The Council of Europe is a multinational institution where members of the Parliament from all European countries, with the exception of the White Russia and Corozo, work together on an equal basis. At the same time, the European Parliament's work has a direct bearing on the work of the Parliament, where representatives of the European Parliament are members of the local Parliament, in contrast with those of their own countries. for the European Parliament. Thus, meetings of the Council of Europe, where members of the Parliament compare their books and exchange their ideas, are a very important contribution to legislation at home and have speeded up the rapid democratic development that has taken place in Europe after the Cold War and supported it. Experience has shown that countries with clear goals within the council and who strive to achieve them can have an effect far beyond their size and political volume. This fact clearly sheds light on the importance of Icelandic participation in the European Parliament and its interests. But let us take up the main theme of the Council of Europe last year. During the year 2019, the largest issue in the Council of Europe was earlier communication between the Parliament and the Council of Europe with Russia. In 2014, Russia's national division was stripped of votes in the Council of Europe because of Russia's access to the conflict in Ukraine and the indentation of Crimea. The same happened when the Russians sent their division to the Council of Europe in 2015 and the Russians hadn't sent national units since. Thus, the Russians had not participated in the European Parliament work for four years, thus not being part of an elected judge at the European Court of Human Rights or the Commission of the European Council. Furthermore, in the summer of 2017, the Russians announced that they would be held after their Member States'payment to the Council of Europe until they would be fully approved in all institutions of the Council, including the European Parliament. At the beginning of 2019, the European Commission announced a recession in the European Parliament's work to cope with the changes in budgets. During the June meeting of the European Parliament, adjustments were adopted in the Parliament, requiring that no Member States can vote, votes, rights, freedom of speech or rights following comments to votes. It was referred to as commitment to the Member States of the European Parliament in the Council's Constitution. As a result, the Russians introduced a new national department, and despite any comments made to the terms, they were accepted without condition or disbarred. At the convention, the council called out that the Russians carried out the previous resolutions of the Council on the elimination of the Coringa and the ability to operate with the European Commission's surveillance agents. As in earlier years, refugees'affairs were high in the work of the European Parliament. The conclusions adopted during the year included conclusions on the role of developing cooperation in preventing people from moving, conclusions about the status of refugees on the Greek islands, conclusions to prevent violence against traveling and refugees and their abuse, and resolutions on the legal status of refugees from the effects of climate change. During the fall of the European Parliament, special discussions were held about saving lives in the Mediterranean Sea. At the council's resolution, the activity of free partners in that field was celebrated but repeatedly that the responsibility of European Council members was to prevent drowning people from fleeing the Mediterranean Sea. Liliane Maury Pasquier, president of the Council of Europe, used much of his time in terms of equality during the year. It is quite clear from her conquistador that it is important to have a wife and especially a feminist president of the council. This was the second time the president of the council is a woman. During a meeting of directors in March, there was a special discussion about the Istanbul Convention, which states that there is a conflict between sexual violence and domestic violence, but the implementation of the contract has met with opposition in several European countries. In April, the council agreed on a resolution on the delinquency of sex discrimination and sexual harassment at national conventions. This conclusion was rooted in a study of sexual harassment among members of the Council of Europe and the International Assembly of 2018. The President's Maury Pasquier promoted a cognitive awakening that she first introduced following the study's conclusion, which is not at my conference (#NornMaryParliament). In 2019 the European Parliament discussed the first addition of Iceland to its commitment to the Council of Europe. This was done in a special assessment of the commitments of Iceland to the European Council. This was, as previously stated, the first time being taken by a surveillance committee such as this, but in 2014, the rules were changed so that all Member States of the European Commission are now being monitored with their commitments being carried out at different intervals. The report on Iceland stated that the commitments to the European Council have been carried out largely by Iceland. In his conclusion, the council pointed out that because of the small size of the country, Icelanders in many cases had chosen to be content with informal rules rather than with legislation. As a result, the democratic institutions of the land were weak and did not accept sufficient measures. The European Parliament called for reforms to resolve this problem. Additionally, recommendations from the fourth and fifth assessment for corruption, GRECO, including GRECO, were called upon to follow. by working against the government's stake ties, reviewing the rules on the post-approval job and securing the independence of law enforcement agencies against governments. It was also recommended that a human rights institution be established and that a universal law against any discrimination should be set up. The one here spoke on behalf of a group of left members of the conference's panel report on the European Parliament's assessment report in Iceland, and I welcomed the proposal of a surveillance committee for Iceland. However, I declared my frustration that the Council had not completed the legal registration of a new constitution and showed that the nation's will had been clear in the 2011 Councilment of National Affairs. It is true that the Icelandic government would need to develop a comprehensive policy to deal with corruption and stakeholders in the administration. Although Iceland was often viewed as a role model for other countries in equality, it would still be a struggle to combat sexual violence and there would be a real need for reforms in legislation that would guide the needs of victims. Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Ivarsdóttir, why. A member of the European Parliament's Department of Iceland, also spoke about the report of the European Commission on Iceland and considered the report to be rather positive. She noted that since the report, there had been more evidence of corruption in Iceland. In 2014, she related that despite the fact that the report describes concern over the Geir H. Haardeur for the European Court of Human Rights, the trial had not been violated by the European Court of Human Rights. I would like to end up in this speech on the annual report of the European Parliament taking advantage of the opportunity to mention how well we have done in the European Parliament's Iceland Council, in fact, as follows. It is really fun to be president of the National Department, who is so interested in this remarkable institution and the values it represents; to promote and strengthen human rights in Member States and to respect laws and regulations to ensure democratic rules. It is not necessarily possible that the small panel of members of this great and important body of council in this grand institution are two members of the Parliament who carry out vital confidential work, one of the council vice presidents and one of the committee's committees. I especially want to thank you. paritaprevir Ævarsdóttir's daughter, Thord, for her good and powerful work as chairman of the European Parliament's Legal and Human Rights Committee, which has served for the past two years. I want to thank you too. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's wife, for her excellent performance in the times that he has entered the council as an assistant and how well he has benefited from it. Finally, I'd like to thank the Lord Bylgja the Year's Árnadóttir, secretary of the Iceland Department, for her fine work and professional ethic. I would like to encourage you, both members of the Generals and other interested persons throughout the Council of Europe, to present yourself fully in the work and activities of the European Parliament and the European Parliament in the annual report, which shows how powerful this organization is, the end of one of the most important human rights, democracy, and the laws and regulations involved in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u83	Mr. President. In the absence of the Chairman, I present a report from the International Parliament before 2019 C.E. I'm not going to read the whole report, far from here, but I'm going to review what has been the main source of the action of this committee. I'm going to begin by informing only about the International Parliamentary Association itself, for it is a very important organization in itself. This international scene is one of the few, in effect, where members of the Parliament have a direct approach without interference from the executives, so to speak. This is the scene of the legislature authority around the world. Member State of the International Parliament has a 179 Congress, some of which are not particularly democratic, but many are. Similarly, 13 regional members of the Parliament have added to this relationship. This is over a 100 - year - old scene where Icelanders have been a significant part of it for a long time. The aim of the Union is to promote communication between members from all parts of the world on international issues, to promote the peace and cooperation of nations, and to support democracy and the reelection. This organization monitors e.g. During the persecution, even imprisonment, and in some cases killed, the members of Congress have been very well aware of how the National Congress has been conducted worldwide. This is important. I think the Icelanders should place considerable emphasis on this organization as well as on other organizations as the above mentioned. This is important, especially for small people like Iceland, who have to rely on international and international activities, for we certainly cannot have much control over the world. We need to rely on international regulations and cooperation because we are small. That is why such a phenomenon and a cooperative scene at the European scene, the United Nations, NATO, and ASE are very important to Iceland, as it were, in my opinion. The International Parliamentary Association, or IPU, as it is called in English, emphasizes the importance of human rights as a fundamental component of democracy and Congress. IPU is a multiplicity counseling agent to the Congresss, and especially to the councils that may be slightly shorter than we are. This organization cooperates very closely with the United Nations. There are so - called four fixed committees on the scene of this relationship, called the Peace and Security Committee, the Committee on Sustainable Development and Economic and Business Development, the Committee on Democracy and Human Rights, and the United Nations issue. The head of the 2019 Iceland Department was whiskers. The council of Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörn, the president of the council, took her place when Áslaug became minister, why. paritaprevir "Saddles on. Andersen, but with me, there is a bang. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson of the Committee In fact, I see that the report contains an error, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson is said to be a senator for the Agency. We need to update this unless there's some news going on here. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] We'll update this. In this case, I would especially like to commend the secretary of the Committee, Arna Type Bang, who is in charge of this cooperation and who has been very helpful to us. I would especially like to commend her for her priceless work. There were a couple of meetings, as it turns out. Iceland department participated in spring and fall elections, but I also attended the annual meeting of young senators. I guess I'm still young in this respect. Men are young until the age of 45. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur's Davíð is also one of the young senators. In the International Parliament, you'll probably be old when you reach the age of 45, and we're still under it. This meeting was held in September. I was asked to do business at that meeting, and it was really fun. I was asked to discuss some of these so - called economic goals made by the Icelandic government, but I was also asked to cover only Iceland's economic development and the measures the Iceland has taken in the wake of the economic collapse. I'd like to discuss this, because I just enjoy discussing what I discussed at this fine meeting, but, of course, I informed, from my point of view, what happened here over twelve years ago. It's got a little bit of attention. While we are busy with the collapse, perhaps the whole world did not know what was going on. But saying so, it was a worldwide catastrophe. I think in future economic books there will be left here a small box about the economic collapse that occurred in Iceland. That was a big one. For example, when the three currency banks are combined, it would be the third largest failure in U.S. history, so these are amazing numbers. The loss caused by the collapse of the Icelandic banks is more than a total of foreign assistance to Africa, all of you think. In Africa alone, over a billion people live, and many organizations and countries are aiding in Africa. In other words, the amount lost in the Icelandic crash was higher than the world's contribution to the worldwide work and development aid in Africa. Another point in my opinion is that when the United States was building up, not just in Iceland, but throughout Europe after the war, I counted the U.S. Marshall Help. Compared to that number, the loss that occurred in the Icelandic economic breakdown is half the total Marshall help. Imagine, half of the Marshalls that built up Europe after the devastating war of World War II. These are enormously high numbers on a global scale. We are 350,000 people, the United States of America 350 million. This puts things in perspective, what the Icelandic government was dealing with, and the Icelandic people were dealing with. I also considered only what had happened. These were difficult times, and it was important that all classes, just to the left and right and middle, came to Iceland's construction. I think we should remind ourselves. I'm not going to review all of them, but there were many governments that came to Iceland's construction after the collapse, and especially the Icelandic business and the public. Of course, it made mistakes, as it turns out, but in recent years it has been quite successful in Iceland. Though he is now almost gone, we have experienced significant economic growth. We experienced a lot of economic growth, especially as a result of the introduction of tourism, and secondly, new fish, which had never been fished in Iceland, the mackerel, were in a very favorable time. This is important, and the macrois not a peripheral fish strain. For a time, it was the second most desirable of our stock, after a cod. He was very important to get out of this massive crash. This has drawn international attention. Paul Krugman, one of the world's most famous economists, says I'm not allowed to testify in English but I'm going to allow it, a direct quote from Paul Krugman speaking about Iceland, by permission of President: ▪Were ever asked outside the bankers and made the public pool the writing, Iceland let the banks go up and up and up in it, sociable as a social scramable network. Joseph Stiglitz, another world-famous economist and Nobel laureate, says: ▪ What'sceland did they do right? Would have been wrong to burden wilde genes with the mistakes of the finicial system.◯ I'm not saying that everyone has to agree with this, but this is their food, and the eye is obvious, that there have been things done just after the crash. It's not like that. It's not like that. I only reviewed what we did in other ways. There was a significant increase in taxes. [[Up front.]] We did. They put a capital master in here. There was also a lot of unemployment after the crash, and I think maybe we should dust off the action they were taking to cope with unemployment. Schools were opened here, contributing to all kinds of trainingprograms in order to cope with unemployment. Now we see that unemployment is on its way up, and it has doubled during this average period. Of course, it's not as much as it was after the crash, but it's something we need to watch out for. Unemployment sucks for the person. Work is so much of a person's sense of identity, purpose, and involvement in life, and of course it has a direct bearing on the financial situation, that is quite obvious. I think we should all worry about this together here in this room because nobody wants to see unemployment. This was part of what I went to this conference with young members of the council and had some questions about it. I'm not going to have my case much further on this part, but I also shed some light on what Iceland's position was 100 years ago. It's quite remarkable that if we look at the production of Iceland 100 years ago, it was similar to that of Tansani, Nepal, and Uganda today. We were one of Europe's poorest countries, even in the world, one of Europe's poorer countries, at least 100 years ago. We got up pretty fast. We are now the tenth richest nation in the world. Can you imagine, there's nothing so long ago? I went back 100 years. We may be able to go back 80 years. The national production of Iceland 100 years ago was one seventeen of what it is today, and comparable to Tanzania, Nepal, Uganda, Cameroon, and other countries, if we consider this in this context. And what did Iceland do to get out of this poverty? Of course, there are many reasons, but number one, we used our resources quite well. We used the fish, we developed technology, we got good ships, we educated our sailors, and we used our basic resource, the marine resource. We're supposed to be proud of the fishing road. We are often arguing over the seabed and fishing expenses, but we must not forget that the commercial industry is well run by well - equipped people. We're also supposed to keep it a little high, the positive things going on in the water. There is a innovation, and there is a process to take regarding the environment and other such. The sea road will always be the spine in your local practice. Second, we're a little lucky with neighbors. We are neighbors of the northern nations, and we looked at them a little bit. Organizations, legal environment, etc. So important is economic stability and structure. Of course, we've adopted a lot of things from Denmark and other northern countries. It has incredible value. Not all countries in the world are lucky with neighbors, so to speak, but we are. We owe a little to our North American neighbors, for such a broad concept, by the permission of a president, is of utmost importance. Let's think, for example. dry phenomena, such as proselytism, are relevant. Why? That's because if you're gonna start a business and you have to take a loan, you have to be able to prove that you own the person's property so you can mortgage it, for example. to borrow. This is a key factor if you are building, that the right of possession is written in some way, and you can rely on it, building more wealth on the property you own. Then Iceland put considerable emphasis on education and democratic participation, it was anti-corruption, etc. There are many reasons why we have achieved a relatively rapid list of relatively rich kingdoms. I'm going to stop at what I was talking about out there in the world when I was asked to speak at this conference. Finally, I intend to remind myself of the actions that the IPU, the International Assembly, stressed this year. It was not the least of all international action to combat climate change. This was approved by a form of emergency that was called after action. Similarly, after the hurricane Idai, they called for action to support Mozambique, Malawi, and Zimbabwe. It was emphasised on promoting conventions and peace and education. It was emphasised on the children's contract, etc. I'm not going through this. These are all so big and important matters that last year the International Assembly emphasized its work. Iceland's department was actively involved in this cooperation. I think we should do it with considerable force, as we have done in the past and should continue to do so, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u84	The President reminds us that the matter is Icelandic. The president has sometimes looked through his fingers if someone translates as hard as he tells them what to do. A senator and another man. Councilmen tell them to come to a poncho with translated quotations if they want to surprise them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson's Auguste for delivering a report from the International Assembly of Iceland. Since it is interesting to listen to these reports about our worldwide cooperation, it is sad to see how few we are in this body of Congress and how few are involved in the discussion. I simply wondered, " Is there any reason to change something about this form and to place these reports in a rather similar general program instead of taking one day under them? ' Hv. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson is an economist who is interested in this discussion, and his talk was very interesting. I asked for an answer. It was interesting to hear that. A senator would have gone out and talked about the collapse, which was certainly very large, and I have no doubt that it will be in the history books. But what I'm sure of is going into the history books, and what I'm often asked about when I'm in a foreign field, and it's also what I wanted to hear a little more about from what I'm talking about. A senator, is exactly the incredible success Iceland achieved in a short period of time. After the Gigantian collapse that occurred here, we are in a very short time at the most successful position we have ever had to experience one of the longest economics in history. Like what? A senator said that it was not very long since we had all the poorest countries in Europe, but now we are with the richest in spite of the collapse. I think there is a good reason, when we go to the international scene and discuss the events there, to let people learn from it with us, whatever it was that caused us to achieve this great success in such a short time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u86	Mr. President. I apologize for using the English part of my speech earlier. That's right, as a matter of fact. A senator speaks of, we should uphold what was well done, for this was absolutely unprecedented. 90% of the stock market disappeared in Iceland, unemployment rate tripled, our currency fell by 50%. Inflation took up to 18% and grew up. From the 19th century onward, we had not lost as many individuals from abroad. There was a lot of trouble and bad times for so many, and the whole community. State funds were fired at 214 billion dollars. In the first year, then 130 billion back, and then the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir was reduced, let's hold it up as well. Then came other governments and shared in the building. There are many of these and especially among the peoples of the land. These are all important steps we take. Of course, it was a painful time in the history of the land. Not to be overlooked is the fact that we also needed help from the World Bank, was the first Western state to come for help since the British did so, 1978, reminds me. We did so, not only, but we also received assistance from the Norwegian states and Poles and the Faeroes. As for Iceland, I'm going to try to translate it into Icelandic, this is in English here, with Presidential permission: Iceland is now an example of overworking a deep economic crisis without - and now I'm afraid to use English with this President behind me - disrupting too much of the nation's social division, something like that. [[The president calls.]] It is an international organization that points to what is well done, and we are certainly to uphold it. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u87	The President reminds us that a fine word, Icelandic, is an honor, like a credit card.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u88	A respectable president. I'm sorry that the discussion here may be moving on to something other than exactly what is contained in this fine report on the International Parliament. But I appreciate it. A senator for this, and he thinks it's very important that we keep this up. That's exactly what's going on in the history books, how much success we Icelanders have achieved in a short time. And when I tell the Icelanders, of course, I want to thank the governments who had to deal with that project and the members of this hall. But I completely agree with what. A senator, of course, is the people of the land who accepted this responsibility. That is also because we have given the people of the country the opportunity to do so. I feel like there's a number of times when you hear too negative from this place when you're dealing with economic issues because the economic situation in Iceland is very good. Even though we are now getting out of the economy and experiencing some recession, the Icelandic state is still very well equipped to cope with that situation. I was in an open meeting at night. This morning's Economic and Business Committee, where we had the bank managers and we covered the money issues and the posts. Here, interest rates have fallen dramatically, and there is still room to reduce growth if necessary. Homes in the country have raised a lot of savings, so I also feel that it is important that we here speak with a lot of responsibility in these areas. Despite the fact that this is going to be some recession, and unfortunately, unemployment, which is, of course, a very negative and challenging project for us, is still a way of dealing well with the demands of the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u89	Mr. President. In my second answer, I want to tell you exactly which way to go in Iceland. We went that so - called mixed way. This was the first time that the International Cash Fund took some note that there was a social government at work. There was no requirement for bloody surgery, some of which were cut down, but it was also decided to make money back. It was rather controversial among some categories. We introduced a wealth tax, when most of the money was given to him a government fund of about 10 billion. The fishing fees back then were three times higher than they are now. The government doubled capital taxes and made many changes in the tax system to try to find large banks, so to speak, to protect schools, nursing homes, hospitals, roads, etc. That was the thought. According to a report by the National Institute for National Affairs of the University of Iceland, it was reported that taxes on low income and middle income groups dropped or stood in place but grew in the high - income groups. I like politics, but maybe we don't agree on it. We had to make money to protect social infrastructure that we wanted to do. That was the thought. Another example. The wealth was completely broken at that time, remember 214 billion in a palace the first year, then 130, then 70 or whatever, so there was no money in the box. Yet, during this ideal period of the left government of green and green, the United States put 100 billion in interest of interest and child support. Half the government that is now in power has been established. This is one example of the matter of who is in charge, who is sitting on those benches. I also want to be positive, and I can say that there are many things we certainly did together, but above all, it may have been Icelandic companies and families who took on this tremendous blow and worked fairly fast, most of them, even though it has not always been done with everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u90	V.E.G. President. I present a report from the NATO Council of Iceland by 2019, in the absence of a chairman. I'm in Iceland with me. The members of Njáll Traustir Friðbertsson, chairman of the National Council of Iceland, and the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir is vice president. A respectable president. This will be some kind of a review from the existing report, and I'm going to go down to a chapter in general about the NATO Council, and then I'm going to discuss the main meeting attended by the Iceland Department, i.e. February, spring meeting, and annual meeting of the Committee. Then I'm going to complete my case in the opening section, which will get us along well with the Committee's work for this year's work to be discussed here, 2019. I'd like to ask the President to interrupt the report. NATO is an Council of Congress, which has been the site of the Council members of NATO for security and protection. Until 1999, the Council carried the name of the Northern Atlantic Council, then called the NATO Council. In recent years, the number of Member States and the addition of the NATO Council has increased rapidly and has been expanded in accordance with the changes in countries that have previously belonged to the Soviet Union and the countries of central and Eastern Europe. Nine democratic states from the former Communist states are now being added to the council, as well as to the neutral European states, Austria, Switzerland, Sweden, and Finland, which means that they can participate in activities and discussions at the council. The Council's work is increasingly focused on the overall security of Europe, economic and political problems in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and on the global security system. With the Rose-Roth programme, the council is also supporting the development of conniving democracy in Europe and nearby states. The 1949 Atlantic Convention did not expect a controversies, but in time the view grew that organized cooperation between Parliaments and the support of NATO was needed. The Parliament does not have a formal position within the Community, but gradually it has reached the close and active cooperation of its institutions. The main role of the Parliament is to promote solidarity and meet national conventions in the area of safety and protection. The Senate gathers twice a year, to spring meetings and annual meetings in the fall. The activities of the Parliament are largely carried out on five topic committees, political committees, Defense and Security Committee, the Economic Committee, the Scientific Committee and the Technologies Committee, and the National Security Committee. The three members of the Iceland Department share these committees with them. In addition, a great deal of activity is being carried out by the Mediterranean group, which does not have the position of a formal topic committee. These are the main topics of discussion, of contemporary issues that arise in their field of work, and of reporting on these reports. The nominees are usually presented in the form of proposals, declarations, or assumptions approved by the committee, and the council later votes. References are directed to the North Atlantic Council, which has the highest decision force in NATO, and are encouraged to take certain measures. However, the views of the Council are directed to the governments of the Member States. Although the council is independent of NATO, its dealings with the alliance have gradually become more permanent. Formal contact includes, firstly, formal responses to the Council's proposals from the Commission of the Community on behalf of the Northern Atlantic Council. Second, the secretary - general of the Union will address at the spring meetings and annual meetings of the NATO Council and respond to council inquiry. Third, the National Council and the Council of the North Atlantic meet each year for a meeting at NATO headquarters in Brussels. The NATO Council consists of 266 members of the 29 Member States. The number of delegates from each country depends largely on the population. The largest emissary is the American commission with 36 members of the United States, which is among the smallest of three members of the United States. In addition to the delegates, each Assembly of Nations may appoint as many defenders who are allowed to participate in the council but do not have the right to vote. Government ministers are not allowed to represent the NATO Council. A total of 61 senators from 13 additional Member States are serving at the NATO Council and participate in committee meetings, except for meetings of the Commission, and meetings but do not have the right to vote. Yet, they have the right to make adjustments. NATO, as I entered at the beginning, has two meetings a year; spring meeting and annual meeting in the fall. This is the two major meetings the Iceland Department will meet together, but then members of the Committee will attend the meetings that are adopted by the committees we share with us. At so-called February meetings, the board of directors of NATO and the Council of the North Atlantic will hold together as a political committee, a Economic Committee and Defense and Security Committee. At the same time, the Council Board gathers for a meeting in March or April each year. Then, a number of NATOs are attending a annual meeting on the Atlantic cohesion that will be held in December in the cooperation of the NATO and the U.S. Atlantic Council. Finally, committees and members of the council regularly hold seminars and meetings between meetings. In 2019, Iceland's department participated in the February, Brussels, spring meeting in Bratislava, and annual meeting in London. So at the February meeting of the NATO Council of Brussels, this joint meeting of the European Commission, the Economic Committee, and the Defense and Security Committee, it was conducted by specialists, officials, and generals of the Atlantic Community and responded to questions made by members of the Parliament. Then there was the annual meeting of the NATO Committee, with the Council of the North Atlantic at NATO headquarters. The main issues at the meeting were the battle against terrorism, the equal burden of NATO member countries, the European Union and NATO - in increasing numbers, I believe I will allow myself to assert, the core of these Council of NATO meetings - and the communication between NATO and Russia, and finally the instability of the countries before the Mediterranean. A discussion led Jens Stoltenberg, the head of the Community, who also brought in the information. Stoltenberg spoke, including the importance of having new defense technologies and reviewing the major activities that NATO has been involved. Stoltenberg said positive about how successful it was in Member States to increase their donations for safety and protection, but it is important to do even better. He also discussed the importance of climate control. Hv. paritaprevir Our chairman of the Committee, Nick Friðbertsson, raised the matter that the international community and NATO had long supported the Afghan people in their path to peaceful society. It would be important to ensure that women's access to the peace process and in the building up of the land. In view of the rights and status of women in an Afghan community, a positive sign would be at hand. In view of the lateness of peace negotiations and the expectation that a number of soldiers would likely be called home from Afghanistan, Njáll Trausti directed the question to Stoltenberg's question of how best to support this trend. Stoltenberg explained that the members of NATO are concerned with supporting the Afghan nation. A decision to leave Afghanistan would require that Member States agreeing with each other. In the spring meeting of the NATO council, committees work reports and meet with representatives of governments and international institutions and experts. There is then a meeting in which we will discuss the issues at the top of the international security and defense. The main topics of the meeting last spring were communication between NATO and Russia and how Moscow promotes instability in Ukraine, the challenges of China, and the security of the Internet. There was also a discussion on multiple threats, the resistance potential for dealing with unexpected events, artificial intelligence, and disarmament issues. The conference's communication with the Russian Parliament was discussed and emphasized the importance of continued discussions between the Russians and the NATO council. Cooperation with states outside the Community and stability to both the South and the East is also focused on continued support in Afghanistan. Then there was a discussion of the state of validation of the Northern Macedonian Member States of NATO. The preparation of the concierge treatment is already under way here, and in most Member States it is well planned. A political committee discussed three reports in their meetings. The first is about the security and stability in Africa and the challenges and opportunities for NATO, the second about the relationship between NATO and Russia, and the third of the 70th birthdays of NATO and the importance of the Community. The National Economic Committee of the NATO Council discussed in their reports including On Northern Macedonian issues: political change, participation in NATO and economic transitions and economic pressure taking place in foreign policy. The Council's Defense and Security Committee discussed that three reports and one of them deals with the development of security in the north, where members of the Committee described it. their concern is that the agreement on intermediate nuclear weapons, made here at Gorbatsjevur's and Reagans's summit in the Cape, was in danger of Russian treaties, and that it was important for the delegates to continue calling upon the Russians to agree. In terms of northern affairs, members agreed to continue to maintain a low level of tension in the region, as it is called. Now I think, because a respectable president has encouraged us why. Senators to use Icelandic language, there is no doubt about an English word that describes something more specific than I do. I think that all of us understand the importance of the recent low tensions in spite of increased military presence in the area, especially Russia. Then I'd like to state that the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter participated in the first noon meeting of the NATO council members held to promote the importance of equality within NATO and outside. It is intended that such a meeting will be held annually. Now that I've been through February and the spring meeting, it's this big meeting, the annual meeting. The main talks of the annual meeting were held in five topic committees of the Council, based on reports published by members of the Committee, and lectures by international experts on safety matters. At that time, a meeting was held that discussed the issues that had been held at the international security and defense debate and adopted a vote for the council's conclusions and decisions. The main topics of the meeting were northern issues, they were deeply involved in this year of work, 2019, and I believe that this year will not change, but also the conflicts of Syria, climate, and Internet security. A political committee discussed three reports in their meetings. The first report discussed NATO for 70 years, and why the alliance was as important as it really is. The second report discussed security and stability in Africa with regard to the challenges and opportunities in the field of NATO. The third report discussed the link between NATO and Russia. There was then a scaffold discussion on the role of China and the state of the Persian Gulf. I'm going to finish my case, a respectable president, by going to the opening phase which will well sum up this year's work, the work of the National Council of NATO, and the main issues scheduled for the NATO Council during the 2019 service year. To some extent, I have made a point of discussing these three major meetings that in the field of the council, the communication between NATO and Russia is highly emphasised. The rise in Russia's military activities and their shunning international commitments, which have had a negative impact on European security prospects, were focused on each of these meetings. The relationship has not been as bad since the Cold War as has been since the end of the Cold War and has deteriorated as a result of the Russians'break in an intermediate nuclear war contract. Then, after the end of the contract, the Council concluded on the support of NATO's policy, but the United States tore it up in August. However, members of the council agreed on the importance of continued discussions between Russia and the NATO council. During the year, the matter of the north came up with increased attention, and the Council concluded on the development of safety in the region. Special attention was given to the military importance of the North Atlantic in terms of the marine waters between Iceland, Greenland, and Britain. The senators agreed on the importance of maintaining a low level of tension in the area, as if I had come to, a respectable president, as would have been, despite increasing military presence, especially the Russians. The impact of climate change was then discussed as security and protection issues, including due to increases in marine surfaces and increased availability of natural resources in the north. The Internet security issue was addressed and the Council reasoned on the protection of NATO regarding security. There were growing concerns among members of the Parliament about Internet attacks, where their nature was different from ours, and it was difficult to trace from such attacks. The importance of integrating the activities of Member States and the Community itself and exchangeing the experience and knowledge of Member States was emphasized. It was then decreed that funding would be increased in order to maintain the development of technology and the ability of the Community. In view of the new safety pressures and how the Community can face many challenges and ensure its ability and strength to live up to its commitments, much was also discussed. At that time, the importance of equalizing the burden of Community countries, increasing European financial resources, and in developing Member States aimed to achieve the objective of NATO to produce 2% of GDP by 2024 in order to meet changing security prospects. - Then we'd have to, more distinguished President, if this were our goal, to make things better, we're so far from there. Other major issues under consideration at the Council of NATO in 2019 include the instability of the Mediterranean and North Africa, particularly with regard to the conflicts in Syria and the great refugee problems they have caused in neighboring areas and in Europe. The development of events in Afghanistan and the continued support of the Community to the national administrations, multi-item threats, resistance efforts to deal with unexpected events, increased threat to submarines, and disarmament issues were also discussed. There was also a debate over equality issues within NATO and the importance of implementing them into functions and policies related to security and protection through the introduction of the UN Safety Relation No. 1325 about women, peace, and security. In this chapter, the committee's work meets well and how it is built up. Finally, a respectable president, on behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank the secretary of the Committee. Under the report, write down. Councilmen Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Chairman of the Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, vice president, and Deputy Director Willum Þór Thor Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u91	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór for his tour of the Iceland Department of NATO last year. Now I know what to do. A senator has not, because of his work as the chairman of a financial committee and as a member of the Parliament of the Agency, had the opportunity to attend as many meetings as he would undoubtedly have chosen. I understand that if he may not be able to get my queries accurate in this counter, but I find it quite interesting that in this report not directly addressed to Turkey, in spite of the invasion of Syria by air raids in October, which caused quite a stir in the NATO states. I just wanted to hear a little bit more about this military operation of Turkey, which made up that decision on its own, about going into air raids on another independent state, and how they've been held within the NATO or the NATO Parliament. paritaprevir Willum Thor Thor Thor Þór Þórsson has attended.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u92	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry, and I think it's a very good question. It seems that I attended the autumn annual meeting, which was in almost the most serious events that were going on back then and the talks of principal leaders, Angela Merkel, Stoltenberg for NATO, were in an effort to get some upbuilding conversation with Erdogan, and some control over this delicate situation. Of course, this is mixed with many other factors, such as why. A senator knows. For Stoltenberg, from the previous report, I received a number of questions that led to my situation. What I might have thought was the most dramatic of all, but the way he tried to respect it, I allow myself to state, the different viewpoints of the members of the countries as they appeared in the inquirys, so it may be difficult for me to answer that accurately. But it had happened two days earlier that Angela Merkel had been meeting with Erdogan and had made quite clear that this had to stop, and Stoltenberg was on her way to a meeting the following day with Erdogan. I don't know what else to answer, but you just realized very well what it's important to be close to and feel the emotions of such a complicated situation going through.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and it is good to hear that at that meeting as a matter of course. A senator drew out a word exchange and questions to the head of the Atlantic Community on the role of the Turk during the invasion and the air strike against Syria. Like what? A senator correctly arrived in his tour of Iceland's report last year by the NATO Council, it is clear that the situation at the bottom of the Mediterranean Sea has been carefully discussed at the scene of the NATO Council. So I also wondered, " What is it? ' A senator can answer from his experience with the meetings he attended, and he understands it well if it has not been so in those meetings he attended, and he will inform us whether they had discussed the role, the role of French there, and even the role of the Turks in Libia. As we know, the situation in Libya is quite frightening and terrible, and perhaps not least the situation of refugees there, whether in an overcrowded concentration camp in Libya but also in a so - called free refugee camp, which is not run for Kingdom strength or strength from the European Union. The situation there is extremely bad. I wonder what. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson can answer whether the situation in Libya and the French and the Turks in this context have been directly discussed in those places. A senator attended.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u94	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator's questions are good. I'd like to say about the invasion of Syria and the air raids that we discussed in the previous enemy and Turkey, that they were condemned as they happened. That was perfectly clear because I didn't come up against it. As for Libia, it's a very large assembly, and we're involved in committees, and I'm a member of the Economic and Business Committee, and that wasn't a talk about Libya. I am confident that there have been other discussions in the same area. However, I was present when we discussed Afghanistan and our chairman did well, and I specifically reviewed this aspect, how our chairman came to our point of view regarding Afghanistan. But I'd just be trying to skate through some answer, which wouldn't be quite normal, if I was going to have a discussion with Libya from this scene.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u95	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for his detailed and excellent speech and reviewing this fine report. I just wanted to come up here and celebrate special emphasis on Internet security. There's a group of paintings I've been worried about since I got into Congress. We would have to look to the people we work with, such as in NATO and in the northern regions, how we can improve in that regard. But first and last, I wanted to express my joy with the emphasis on the Arctic field of NATO. As I mentioned in a talk under another international report, they seem to be one of our most urgent issues in international politics, and it's important that Iceland's voice be heard loudly and clearly in that subject. As is true in our present Arctic policy, it is important that we remain safe in our area, reminding us to do so. A senator has used the word "low " and I think it's just an excellent translation of it, and we avoid the possibility of a major military activity there. Yet, that is the case. We watch a growing buildup of military workers in the Arctic. That's what the northern kingdom in general wants to fight, and we have our way. I just wanted to thank you for this, and I'm sure I'll have more conversations with those on the NATO committee on our behalf. I have been assigned to direct a transverse committee that is working to review our northern policy, and I believe that this is a big and important matter, for we can have a beautiful and vital vision of peace in these regions and for security. When it comes to security, I'm not only thinking about traditional military security, it's not war or war, but most of all, environmental security. What's going on in the North is such a gigantian, has such a huge impact on us here, and that's, of course, a huge environment but also a huge security issue. I wanted to thank you too. A senator for entering it, and I think it's a good idea, that's why. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter has specifically met with women in the NATO council, it is important. I've noticed that myself. At least I've had one meeting where people were assembled from the European Defense Committee, we were audiences, where it was obvious that there was no woman on a platform and practically no women could speak until we reached this point. Of course, it is totally unacceptable that in 2020 or in 2019, as in last year, this discussion is under way merely by men, so it is important that both genders come to this discussion. In view of the discussions that were in opposition to them, I would also like to express deep concern about the military activities of Turks, i.e. The sheer sensitivity that appears to exist in NATO with it. Of course, I realize that there's a huge complex situation here, but it can't be overlooked what Turks have been doing and that Turks are a NATO nation and that this is how they act requires that it be discussed in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-06-58.u96	V.E.G. President. I have to start by thanking my partners on the Committee for cooperation. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir. paritaprevir The divinity of Thorsson Thorson, as well as of the members of the Committee, by a Bylgja of the Year's Árnadóttir, who has proved to be an excellent employee and has kept close in mind this group. At the national level of the European Security Agency in 2019, there was the highest debate on conflict in the SE region, climate, corruption and equality between the sexes. At the Summit, the conference discussed how the SE could contribute to the relief of the chronic struggle, but the last impression has been made of an important success in the Armena and Azera on the Nagorno-Karabak province and was successful in the resolution of the Council's annual meeting. The Parliament also agreed with an extra agreement on the security and rights status of Abkasia and South Ossetia in Georgia. During the discussion at the council during the year, the Ukraine conflict and the development of Monsterga was prominent. The president of the council, George Tsereteli, a Georgian, warned of an increase in instability in the relations between Russia and Ukraine in their address at the Summit and referred to the conflict in the Asov Sea at the end of 2018. But there, as most of them may remember, the Russians took a Ukrainian ship, held them and the sailors in captivity for a while. This has been discussed extensively at the meetings of the council. In his annual declaration, the council called for fighters to drop weapons, and Russian governments fell from the inside of the Crimea. In addition, the Council agreed to an extra resolution that the Russians'plan to launch nuclear weapons against international law and to have a negative impact on safety in Europe. During the winter meeting, a great deal of information was also discussed about U.S. comments on a ban on average nuclear weapons, and delegates expressed concern about increasing European insecurity when the agreement was not being won. This year, the President of the SE Council appointed special representatives for corruption, digital development, and Arctic development, and for the winter meeting in Vienna a special debate over the fight against corruption, money theft, and the funding of terrorism. Even there was a number of them. Showing the influence of corruption on the activities of the democracy, the state of justice, and national security. The Parliament also approved an additional resolution at the Luxembourg annual meeting on the role of Congress in preventing corruption. Iceland's department welcomed the order of a special representative of the North Sea. In this report, I'm getting closer to the Arctic. Climate was a significant subject to the annual meeting of the SE Parliament, and the council pointed to the link between climate change and conflict, and encouraged Member States to promote the implementation of the Paris Convention. The Iceland Department proposed changes at the resolution of a year's meeting, focusing on the impacts of climate change in northern and marine waters. Of course, as everyone knows, Iceland is very dependent on the waters around the country and the sea of the north in particular is a measure of good health, so to speak, and we are to allow no safe place to warn other nations of the need to take seriously on climate issues. We can then have some opinions about how to do this, but of course the problem needs to be taken or made aware of it. It was also noted that the challenges of climate change are mainly involved today, but as everyone knows them, youths have acted on it. This was also discussed at the autumn Summit of the SE Council held in Morocco this time. It was, I think, the first time this fall meeting was held in a friendship state, if I can put it that way, a state that has added to this meeting, which is good for me to know that it is not worse to be able to take this message out of the countries that are there. Morocco is a fine companion when we discuss this, for they have made great progress in various areas of their home. The importance of gender equality and the authority of women associated with a number of discussions during the year was highlighted, and the issues were natural and often related to climate issues. The Parliament also approved a specific conclusion on the use of digital evolution in behalf of equality. The conclusion repeatedly stated the importance of all citizens having access to the Internet, i.e. this relationship that, regardless of gender, age, or nationality, no one can do today. This is the introduction to this report. I'm not going to read this report all up letter by letter. I'm going to grab on to it, where only the Iceland Department's work is involved. Of course, this report is available here, and I encourage members of the council to study it. Mr. President. In a gross way, it is the responsibility of the SE Parliament to influence policy and emphasis on the work of SE, i.e. The Council of Ministers, and to monitor and assess the effectiveness of the Agency's work. In the matter of the council, the preparations are being made. They are then provided for the annual meeting and presented to the SE Minister of Ministers, the district minister of the Member States, and the Council of SE, where ambassadors and regular representatives of the Member States are seated. As mentioned at the outset of my case, three of us are in the Iceland Department, and we've split our jobs there. The committee of politics and security is the one standing here, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson. The Committee on Economic, Scientific, Technologies, and Environment is Bryndís by the Haraldsdóttir of Democracy and Human Rights, The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson. We had three meetings in the year to prepare for our participation in these meetings. Then, as president of the Iceland Department, I attended the preparatory and consultation of the Directorates of the Commission of Northern and Baltic States in Riga in June, and Bryndís Haraldsdóttir was elected by the ÖSE Parliament in White Russland in November. The Winter Summit was held in Vienna on February 22, and as is customary in this meeting, the committees are being met and isolated. Visitors address the committees, and their suggestions are discussed. At that winter meeting, a delegation of free associates was also called on the role of human rights committees in Moldova and Kazakhstan. There's quite a lot of effort to meet the Agency's Committee of Free Associations and try as much as possible to grant them their wishes. On June 17, a meeting was held in Riga, where the North and the Baltic States met and wrote their books together. It discussed a series of conclusions for the SE annual Summit. Among other things, we considered the site's effectiveness. There were also discussions about new election control rules. Then a resolution was presented from the Chairman of the Lithuanian Department on energy issues in the SE area. The conclusion focused on the importance of checking energy issues in relation to protection and safety issues including the countries too dependent on one source of energy, the same party could exert international pressure, etc. The conclusion mentioned a pack of three energy that made it impossible for me to support it with my associates on this committee, since I thought that this energy package, as everyone knows, would have an impact on Icelandic interests. The decision was then made and discussed at the meeting. There were other findings, of course, at this meeting, but one of the things that was very interesting is that there was a woman named Iluta Lace, a director and a member of a free group called Centrs Marta. It is an organization that cooperates with victims of human halls. She pointed out that most victims of human halls themselves had experienced domestic violence, even sexual abuse, as well as a very clear legal environment to handle these matters. I was curious at this meeting about the existence of a women's shelter in Latvia, and she informed me that a safe house was operating in some communities, and recently the first hidden home had been taken into use and was working to further this activity. At the end of this meeting, on behalf of the Icelandic emissary, I offered that such a meeting with the North and Baltic States would be held in Iceland next time and will be held in May 2020. The annual meeting was then held in Luxembourg in July, where we did our work according to the committees on which we have been assigned. This meeting addressed the prime minister of Luxembourg, Xavier Bettel, and made a big effort in his speech to warn of the rise of right extremes in Europe and to agree with them. During this annual meeting, I participated in the work of a political and security committee. Buttuis Haraldsdóttir participated in the work of another committee on the economic, scientific, technological, and environmental committees. However, in the Bryndís made by the Commission both accepted and were delighted to witness the reaching of the conclusions of Bryndís. With the adjustment, the council repeated the widespread impact of climate change on marine life, on the one hand, changing the oxygen content into the sea and the other, the acidification of the sea, and also the rising temperature in the Arctic region much faster than in the general world. The SE Member States were encouraged to respond to the threat of maintaining the atmosphere of cooperation and cooperation between northern countries despite increasing trajectories and resource use in the north. In a third committee on democratic and human rights matters, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson brought up the matter of gay people. He restated that the role of politicians was to ensure that the legal environment would protect the human rights of all citizens, and for that purpose the General had recently adopted a sexual law. In discussions with the conclusions on energy security in the SE region, the importance of protecting the rights of nations to use and control their energy resources and not all nations would be fortunate enough to have access to sustainable resources. That's where I even pointed. According to information provided by the World Cash Fund, more than 6% of the world's GDP was spent in subsidies on fossil fuels. Imagine: 6% of the world's GDP is about to pay off fossil fuels. I was also able to thank Dr. Hedy Fry, a special representative of equality, and Xavier Bettel, Prime Minister of Luxembourg, for their introductions at this meeting. At the end of this meeting, there was a Doris Barnett, where George Tsereteli was reelected for 120 against 84 votes, Doris Barnett, a German senator who was running for the same office. We then met a special lunch meeting on equality at the invitation of Hedy Fry from Canada, and the Swía side ceremony was applied to study the murder of Boris Nemtsov. Marrakes was, as previously shown in my short address, discussing equality and climate matters, and was very interesting to listen to the discussions there, especially the locals or representatives of the African continent who spoke there, very interesting. There, Bryndís, the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, stressed that climate change is one of the greatest threats to world peace and that it requires cooperation across borders. Of course, she also spoke of the government of Iceland as setting an ambitious policy to meet its commitments and considered the government's policy of that and, of course, other matters. I have to tell you, too, that Bryndís even said that. The independence of Iceland and the success of the present world order highlighting respect for international law, free trade, democracy, and international cooperation. The challenge of Bryndís member countries is to protect common values, respect human rights, and international law. In the end, Bryndís emphasized the value of equality between the sexes, which was a paradox in Icelandic foreign policy. Fortunately, that's the way it is, I think, when Icelanders talk about equality and business in the north, because most of these partners know where we are. At the end of this conference or this meeting, religion and, including, religion, were discussed at the end of the meeting. the site of research that is present in Morocco. Among other things, they discussed the meaning of religion and its ideologies and were interesting to hear how the fine man there spoke about Christianity and Islam and other religions; very interesting and good. We have a winter meeting ahead of us, the first meeting of this year. It will be expected to have a standard format, but the priorities of Iceland will likely be similar. We talk about environmental, equality, security, and defense, of course, Internet security, and, in fact, how we can make this world better and safer. But this is one of the main roles of the European Safety and Cooperation Agency.
