ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u1	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees with a change to bill to legalize the national law and decision of nationalities, national boundaries and delinquency, no. 58/1998. A lot of reviews came up with the commission. The bill suggests changes in national laws and national boundaries, national boundaries, and delinquency. In particular, adjustments are provided in terms of state-and-party operations, noncommunications regulations and regulations on the planned retirement of the Committee. The purpose of these changes is the existing experience and the predictable solution at the end of the procedure. The subject of the bill can be divided into two parts, i.e. changes in regulations relating to the switch between the license of state and rural society due to national and national rights and changes in the handling of the Wild Committee protocols. In accordance with local laws, a minister's permission is required to use water and earth's rights, wind, mines, and other minerals within the country. To use land and national rights within the country in another way, it is necessary to allow the local government to exist. The bill suggests the use of study and other minerals under the permit role of rural society that have citizens in their administrative domains, but it remains to be agreed with Prime Ministers if use is intended for more than 12 months. These changes were largely unconcerned, but they showed a view that it was more appropriate for a minister to continue the license force to secure transparency and equality to allow. The greater part suggests that the approval of the Minister needs to be continued, as well as that it is suggested in the bill that a minister's authorization to provide further guidelines for the management and use of nationalities, including cohesion and transparency, should be clearly defined as distribution of land use. So the majority do not consider it a reason to suggest a change in paragraphs 1 and 2. The bill. The committee presented the viewpoint of stipulation to Article 4. The bill, which suggests that the state has the authority to increase its demand, would be inappropriate and dissociative. At the same time, landowners who would have already had land in the treatment of the Wilderness Committee would have to go through such a thing again. This article is suggested to increase the possibility of the State to increase its demands on the affairs of the legislation committee and to legalize the committee to treat areas that have previously been treated by the Committee. The bill's report provides a detailed explanation for the reasons why the above sources are desirable and accepts a greater portion under those views. In particular, the majority of these points call attention to the proposed authority of the state to increase its demand to match the case's status. Then the more part shows that the authority proposed to be given to a homeless committee is subject to the requirement that a nominees have made a comment on the State's claim. Furthermore, the majority point out that with the bill there are also two changes aimed at increasing the possibility of land rights to obtain a review of the results of the Wilderness Committee. It's very detailed in the bill itself. In handling the matter, the committee discussed a significant 5th point. The bill involved in the planned implementation of the Wild Committee when areas outside the continent will be treated. Many reporters made a comment on the subject, especially on the subject in a report. With a 5. The bill is suggested that the Commission be allowed to initiate a procedure for land areas outside the coastal coast of the continent with a challenge to describe justice and then accept standard procedures. This change is designed to be a means of economy for the Wild Committee and for the courts where a number of islands, saviours, mountains, and rivers, known as areas outside the coast of the continent, are significant, and as the members that initially call attention to their rights, events do not need to be dealt with in greater terms. The reviewers made specific comments on the effect of Article 5. The bill for the interest of the owners of the sea. The reviews made it clear that the terms of the second capitula driver's column of Jón's book, which has been targeted by the Internet law, should refer to the terms of the second capitula driver's log, i.e. depth based on 20 mesh sealets. For this reason, the majority of the segment points out that the right to fish and run is based on this depth rule, but it does not require direct possession on the ocean floor within the Internet layers defined as such. Since the requested provision of John's Gospel has not been canceled, the seaowners may still have the exclusive right to fish within the Internet songs that are thus defined according to the book of John. However, the bill will not alter the right, if it exists, for it does not include changes, delinquency of hunting rights, or other existing property rights. With a 5. The bill is not under the law that falls not already under the standards of the law. Rather, it is being proposed to administer their case in a way that differs from that of the continent. The more important thing is that this change should be of particular benefit to potential right heads. Much of the evidence, then, is that material adjustments are not needed 5. The bill. Here are some minor adjustments to correct and correct which can be found and found in the leading wing of the section. Under this opinion, write why. Councilmen Páll Magnússon, Þóra Thoran Árnadóttir, Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, Jón Valdimarsson, Birgis Birgir of Ármannsson, and the one standing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u2	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of history. During this bill, there is strong criticism, such as pa·rou·siʹa. A senator rightly mentioned, on 5th paragraph. involved in the planned treatment of the Unanimity Committee in cross-border territories beyond the coast of the continent, i.e. on so-called beach ground, on sea soil. I want to ask you why. The senator's comments, e.g. in the review of the Association of the Owners of the sea, who wondered about the work and tactics behind the bill, as it were. A senator mentioned in his background, especially in the books of Jón's Book of 121 on a principle of depth. Counts 'em out. A senator's concern is not that it is a concern to go on this journey when such explicit debates come to the realization that they are actually walking on the Constitutional rights of the owners of the sea? My question to why. A senator is this: Is it not necessary to try to make peace with one another, and instead of going on this journey, to the owners of the sea? I remind you that according to the Supreme Court of 1996, it was unmistakably clear that the decision of an Internet law in the light of the landowner's fishing rights should be based on the principle mentioned earlier in the Jón Book. I also found this interesting. A senator mentioned earlier when she said that the owners of the seamen may have the right to do so. I feel like a whale. A senator is questioning that, and that's what worries me. So, then, are we in the process that now the owners of a marine must begin to prove their rights, which they have rightly had since 1211?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u3	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is possible that we can offer only slight changes and believe that what has been brought here by the owners of the sea - that, in fact, this is not the right thing to do. We had all these reviews on the committee, received visitors, and discussed matters, and suggested that this be the case. However, we will likely consider the matter in the context of a discussion to determine certain issues. Maybe it's also going to happen here, huh? A senator quoted my comments on this matter, that we believe that what we are here to make changes is more beneficial than not. About 5. ... isn't, as it says here, passing the law under an area that doesn't already fall under the law, it's just talking about how the trial could be different from that of the mainland. I don't think I can answer what. A senator better than we can see, and it may be as if there are a number of other factors that we can never fully accept. But I don't think we're going into some kind of uncertainty.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u4	Mr. President. I'm glad the case goes back to the Committee. I think it's very important to do a thorough review. It's a serious thing when envelopes come from such large organizations as the unions of marine owners and Iceland's National Farmers in the world that the bill is not in accordance with the constitution. It is a natural very serious thing and must be carefully considered. The comments of these individuals are detailed and well supported, including the following: is, as I said before, quoted the Supreme Court from 1996 and the scholar's opinion on this subject. There are serious problems in this, in my opinion, Mr. President, which are important in handling the stitches carefully so that you are not going on a journey that may then lead to a state's thank-you, etc. and the individuals involved in significant damage.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u5	Mr. President. The person listed here does not feel that he is having a case that violates the constitution. In any case, the committee stated that this is not the case. The matter would have ended otherwise if the information there had given the basis for understanding by those who came before the committee, and we need to remember that they were more than just the owners of the sea. In the Supreme Court, which includes... is being quoted as referring to a distance from a heavy surface and to a reference to John's drift column, the fragmentation of grid shapes, and the depth of sea water, that it has not been canceled. However, it is also pointed out that any legislation has not been adopted since 1919. So for a long time, we may be at odds with the interpretation of the book of John, I presume.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u6	Mr. President. In view of the exchanges that have taken place here, I wanted to know that there was a discussion on the committee before the case was finally paid over last week that it would return to a committee between 2 and 3. Um, um... magazines to discuss them as a matter of concern. paritaprevir This is the case with Þórarinsson's Birgir and comments on the position of the sea and its rights. Other aspects of the committee concern, including the product of the money to be decontaminated by the use that is pointed out for at least One statement is that what was originally meant when the 1998 National Israel law was passed, i.e. that the profit of their use may come to the peoples themselves. Of course, in the meantime there have been changes in government law that in some way might affect this and without the committee's decision on how they intend to handle this opinion, this is also a factor that they consider to be a basis for reviewing between 2 and 3. I don't make a special requirement for that. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir will react to this, or answer, my answer. But I just wanted to go to this part of the discussion to show that the plan is to take these terms for further consideration between 2 and 3. and, of course, in the context of that discussion, the comments given during the discussion today will be considered if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u7	Mr. President. I'm just gonna come into this with regard to the income it made or it's made. Like what? paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year explained this by means of law on public finances, adding the law to income that falls into rural society as a result of land and land rights, as well as other projects that are already listed in the law to protect the building of infrastructure and planning. I believe it is urgent in view of the growth of tourists who visit the population and the pressures it brings, and we know. And then there's a plan of planning the basis for good policy development on building infrastructure within national boundaries. I just wanted to kill myself on this thing without making a claim that it's going to fail.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u8	A respectable president. I'm happy as if the committee takes this case back in between the 2nd and 3rd. and maybe there's good reason to do so. But I'd like to ask that question in the light of some excellent comments about the many languages, whether at all. Perhaps a manager could answer whether the Committee's discussion of the matter was a subject of national interest. It's quite clear that with the change made here, and why. One executive refers to a law on public financial matters, you might think that it was not merely a change in the financial resources of the nations but also a change in national property. It was evident with the original purpose of the law that the people of the land were built, not as traditional government owners, but as money from foreign citizens for land use and observation, and some projects on the people themselves, but not in the Kingdom box. This change, however, might seem to be changing the nature of the local people in that they act as if they were about to be cared for by other citizens. And now I shall not say if it had been possible, but I wondered if the committee had specifically discussed this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. When it comes to languages as big as the people are concerned, it is possible to have long moments and extensive discussions because there is something very important about the national soul, our country, and our nature. I agree that when the bill was submitted and accepted, despite the warm emotions it displayed at the time, it was a huge step towards the national community, the value of which we have already declared. I think this is a long way ahead of us. We did not take any particularly deep discussion about the nature of national boundaries at this time. Regarding the arrangement, as I did only in the final answer, the pros and cons of changing the law and the laws on public finances make this one of the things to be changed. Whether we want to change the public financial law to include There may be other ways in which there may be other discussions. This, however, is one of the things that we discuss again and take a little deeper into it. Although this income is available to the state, both infrastructure and planning are laid down in view of the current plans for the population and the highlands. I think it's clear to all of us that we can in the way this is suggested, even though the funds go into a government fund, of course do the work that used to be done by a local partner or landowner, depending on what it was like.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u10	A respectable president. I think it needs a little deep discussion and discussion on the nature of nationalities in broad context when it's being made by law-changing decisions, as suggested here, about unprecedented decisions, I'll let me say, including. to repeat a case that has been resolved before judgment, although it is in a specific area. In view of the data and the legality of what is in the seas and the public in lakes, I think it would have to, at least, be to know clearly what meaning is. Councilmen place in the concept of national lands and their rights and responsibilities with them as well as with regard to the government's property rights in those nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u11	Mr. President. Early discussion of the matter included the case of the prime minister. The role of the State as a landowner, a national owner, is that it would be very important to them that the State would publish national policies. I think it's totally possible to agree. I don't agree with what. A member of the council that this is an end to the rights of those who have already made demands. The committee noted that it was not to speak of a case that has been judged or something that should dishonor the rights of those who had gone through the whole process before. It wouldn't be the meaning that this case would be recorded, and I think it's very clear on the bill, and it's being made up in our committee party. It's not going to be about taking up a case unless new data is presented or something, not to be closed forever. It can be both ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u12	A respectable president. I recommend my share of the General and Education Committee that is signed by the river. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Kolbröndóttir, member of the Central Party and representative of the Central Party of the General and Education Committee, which is the sole member of this committee. Most recently, when the bill was treated, a high level of criticism was observed on Article 5. involved in the planned treatment of the Unanimity Committee in areas beyond the coast of the continent. The reviewers made specific comments on the effect of Article 5. to the interests of the owners of the sea because of definitions in the bill's report on the term e-mails. The lesser part agrees with the above criticism and believes that the law of the 2nd capitula driver's column is directed by the Internet law. The minority stresss the effort to respect landowners' rights. The bill is suggested to remove Article 3 of the 4th issue. Section 3. the law on nationalities, and the decision of nationalities, national lands, and delinquency, as it is stated, due to the use of national lands, shall be devoted to similar national projects. The minority feels that a better consideration of the viewpoint has to be made on the subject of change not merely a change of currency but of national property. This change will lead to less national segregation among government property. The minority feels that there will be a thorough examination of the purpose of changing national property in this way and immediately reveals serious doubts about such views. Then, in its review, the national groups in Iceland agree that the changes proposed by the bill are that the main policy for unnecessary, and mainly to increase the State's activities at the expense of landowners' rights. That's what it's all about. in that the bill suggests that the state can obtain permission to increase its demand as well as its nominees as a nomad committee, it will be permitted to treat areas that have previously been treated for certain conditions. The UN reports that such changes are a factor in maintaining the insecurity of land owners against the State, reducing the trust that existed between the State and landowners in the areas taken for treatment of the Wild Committee. The minority joins with the Landowners and believes that great interests are spent in maintaining peace and harmony between the state and the landowners. Finally, my rights are to the point that the right of possession is at peace, according to 72ndre. The constitution and respecting the ownership of landowners will be as much as possible. In view of the above, the smaller part cannot be short enough for the bill to be fulfilled. Under the headings of the column. paritaprevir The middle party, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir'sdot, a representative of the General and Education Committee. The case contains many reviews, and many sources were called before the committee. I want to draw special attention to some points in the reviews, and I would like to first introduce criticism of Article 5. and goes down in three reports that came to the Committee. First, let me mention the comments of Bjarni M. Jónsson, owner of the marine world and expert on marine and coastal systems. His review says, with the permission of a president: In fact, there is 5. It would be unnecessary and much easier to comply with existing laws that show that the border is a base of depth, as shown by John's book of four hugs, or 6,88 meters [6.88 m] from continent, hills, rocks, draughts, and rocks rising from seawater. Very likely, the Jón's net law-enforcement analysis is the best, the simplest, most reasonable definition of the earth's boundaries that have been treated by the Unfinished Committee to this time, where it is everywhere the same around the country. The second period of law aimed at the distance rule of 60 hugs or 115 yards [ 115 m] from a smoldering board may be there, but at all times, what is more determined within the area must be determined as far as it is concerned. cannot allow mining outside a hundred and twenty-five feet [ 115 m] net layer, but within the depth limit of the grid law, it goes further out. To complete the views given in the review of Bjarni M. Jónsson, he continues to say, with the permission of the president: The one that will later be used for a legal explanation is desperate. There are a number of songs in which Internet law is defined as 115 meters [ 115 m] from a massive surface. Question is raised that the earliest and key laws are released from the report - the 121 Johns Law, which is still valid, including those that apply. the main interest or the fishing business. The authors of the report are concerned that it's a lot of work to deal with this, and I don't give much money because it's already on the table. In addition to this, I would especially like to call attention to the comments of Björn, son of Samúelsson, owner of the earth's palace position in a smokehlah carpet. He says, with President's permission: ▪[E] strongly protests that this change should be brought in with vague information that does not appear in the bill plains itself but only in the explanation of the bill that is so silent and difficult to read that most people give up on the reading that may be planned. This is the preparation of an unmistakably improved property exchange by the state that is particularly uncomfortable with marine landowners, especially in and around the British ground, where the difference in flood and sea flows can reach 6 meters in the midst of a massive dream, and measured from that tide to a depth of 6,88 meters. If you want to own the ocean, why not just buy it instead of trying to steal it in that worthless way? So says Björn Samúelsson in his review. For interested persons, Björn referred to Skúli Magnússon's statement at the University of Iceland's Law, which he worked in September 2001, asking for a review of the law on the control of fishing, on the protection of the marine fishing rights. The result Skúli Súl Magnússon's conclusion in this case is that according to the rule of 2nd capitula drift column, there is a limit to marine ecology laws. In this context, the third thing I would like to draw special attention to is the comments of Erla Fridur's Friðriksdóttir, who lives on the Far East. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Signing makes a comment in a report on some of the articles on the bill, 5 / 15 ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - This is comparable to the comments of Bjarni M. Jónsson. On the way to the comments of Erla Friðriksdóttir, by permission of the President: ▪ Only the distance rule where Internet laws are defined at 115 meters [ 115 m] from the current level. This is part of the bill, said 5. Gr., that's to say there's fear of the moves. Both the majority opinion and the representative of the Independence Party of the Committee have been identified. paritaprevir A year's Ármannsson daughter, the plan is to bring the matter up to a committee between discussions and special attention. This subject. If I have just noticed, the committee has specifically been announced that the representatives of the Unanimity Committee and the owners of the sea and likely after the increase. But the question arises: Why were these points not carefully examined before the issue arose? ... awrong.? Notes seem to be so intense and serious that it would have been perfectly normal to work the case more closely on the Committee before it came in here. Next, I would like to draw special attention to the information received to the committee and to the second point I entered my committee's section representative, the Central Party. That's a review from Víðir, Smári Petersenur, the Supreme Court attorney. It focuses on that point. paritaprevir Andersen's victory came in earlier in the debate on national definition and on the view of changing approach there. I'm going to refer to the review of Smári Petersens, which says: ▪ Let's leave the country at a time. 2 mg. You will be protected for reform, for oversight, for follow-up, and for similar activities within the nationalities, at the further decision of the minister. On with the permission of the President, Smári Petersen will continue: ▪[E] The change was supported by the process of removing from the law a market-based income stock in line with the principle of public finance law that there are no market income stocks in individual laws. On the contrary, the review says: ▪ The purpose of the arrangement is, not to produce a market income, but to ensure a particular place for people of the nations beyond the other property of the State. Thus said the following in the bill of law No. 58/1998: (For fully formatted text, see publication) 58/1998] is based on the fact that nationalities, such as local traditional property or land, should not be treated as unique but, in this case, by preservation and custody of the common goods of the nation, should be taken into account, even though the interests of those who have already earned their own rights for use within them should be taken into account. As a result, earnings that may fall on account of the land's use and land quality are proposed to be used separately for national projects, but do not enter a government fund or individual department funds. National society is given this unique position, similar to that of automatons. It still points to the historical speciality of these areas. I have to explain to you a surprising reminder that this matter is not addressed in a thought - provoking manner before it enters 2nd. It is obvious that the thought behind this 1998 implementation of the law is not in the way that this is a traditional market income market, such as many of those who have been suspended in connection with the implementation of new laws on public finances. A Víðir Smári of attorney Petersen appeared to the committee, and the fact that the committee was put before the committee must mean that at this point the committee feels that the viewpoint of the narrative is not being made that there is a reason for taking these matters into account and that I would like to make a lot of remarks at this point. The third thing that I wanted to come in briefly are comments in the comments given to the National Association of Landowners in Iceland regarding the regulations discussed. This is how the review begins, with the permission of a president: The European Union considers the most unnecessary changes proposed and that the proposals have been made primarily for the political purpose of seeking to increase the authority and authority of public authority, i.e. State and rural society, at the expense of landowners' rights. The reviews on this subject include all around the state's parish, which has often been called attacks throughout the number of years of treatment by national nations since 1998. This approach of the government has sometimes been compared to that plant in the little horror shop that never gets enough. Today, the plan seems to be that a case that has already been resolved by a board of Wild Committees. On this occasion, I will make a note that there will be a divorce on the present level and that there will be a special review when the issue arises between the 2nd and 3rd. In addition, there is a number of factors to consider. At the end, I would like to point to one of the members of the branch committee of the greater section, in the section on the case of the Unanimated Committee, which says, by permission of the president: ▪ For the Committee, it presented the view of Article 4. The bill, which suggests that the state has the authority to increase its demand, would be inappropriate and dissociative. At the same time, landowners who would have already had land in the treatment of the Wilderness Committee would have to go through such a thing again. This article suggests increasing the possibility of the State's ability to increase its demands on the affairs of the legislature committee and that it will be legalized for the Committee to treat areas that have been previously treated by the Committee. I challenge it. The General and Education Committee to take a few steps back there, attempting to approach the matter in a way that would be counterargument to landowners and not yet put up with the high standards that have been established in earlier national resources. Of course, it is clear to all, as shown in the conclusion of the committee opinion of the greater part, that views are highly divided in these areas. That's a lot of criticism. where landowners refer to the Jón book rules for depth targets instead of only looking at the length. Finally, I'd like to say that I think it's absolutely necessary and good to hear that once the decision has been made to bring the matter into question. At the same time, I'd like to criticize that this has not been won deeper, so to speak, taking into account the views of landowners to a greater extent than it seems. I hope when the case comes in to 3. By that time, if it does not so well go to sleep on a committee, these factors will have been taken into account, for we must be lucky to protect the property of the owners of the sea in this case, and, of course, wherever it may be, in the way of normal. At some point, we will be able to stop taking the government for granted, acting like the plant in the little horror shop.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u13	Mr. President. In celebration of the speech of the Bergþór. Ólason I wanted to reiterate what has previously been shown to be the full will of both the majority and the smaller parts of the committee, to accept the matter again to review certain issues of opinion that have been presented in the discussion. I can agree with that with what. A member of the council that it is important not to root out new opinions on matters that have already gone their way and have come to a conclusion. In many parts of the country, there is a measure of calmness following a considerable disturbance with the work of the Wilderness Committee and the decision that concerns the people in the past 20 years or so, and it is not intended for the majority of this committee to make war or to contribute to the continuation of war. Of course, it is important to have a viewpoint in this discussion, and since then the committee has made the decision to go through it between the 2nd and 3rd. how appropriate the comments are, what might be the source of undue suspicion. Nevertheless, I think it is beneficial for us to have the views presented here. But I reiterate what I said here earlier that it is not intended for the greater part of the General and Education Committee to promote war in this respect, and it is also not intended to impair the rights of property which are protected by law and constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u14	A respectable president. In itself, it's not anything I'm going to do in response to what I'm going to do. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargis, other than to rejoice that the committee, I allow me to say immediately at this point, approach the matter in a way that, apparently, is to be taken back to the real material treatment between discussions. Sometimes it is that material discussions become very limited. Congress officials find that cases are referred to as tokens rather than to other things. But I reiterate that I am happy to hear the tone in which I spoke at any moment. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargia. We must resolve in this matter to respect the ownership rights available according to a constitution and to take back one or two steps as far as the appeal of the public is concerned in farm possessors.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u15	Mr. President. First, I want to say thank you for what you're saying. paritaprevir Birgir, Ármannsson of a year, said that it was not intended for more of the committee to make war with landowners and, especially, the owners of the sea. This is an important part of this discussion because it is just what is being done by this change of law in the bill, that is, of war. It's just that simple. You're right next door. A senator said that these national languages have been very controversial and have been completely out of focus. That was so that it would take just a few years to resolve these issues, but they are now over 20. In this regard it can also be noted that farmers were assured that they did not have to survive the cost of these lawsuits, but it was not possible, and many farmers on the law have had to account for the considerable costs that have not been paid, as promised. It is proper to keep it in place so that it will be discussed in this discussion. Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason here traced some comments that are very important to come out of the world, and I want to agree with them. When a senator stressed the need to win this matter much better, he said earlier. I'm glad we have a discussion with the committee again. This is absolutely necessary. However, it also shows that the preparation of the situation was not sufficiently difficult, so the committee has now received it in this way and is trying to scratch the tray with a better review of these items. I'd like to, Mr. President, only to enter the information of Iceland's National Landowners and add only what they have to say. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason came in earlier. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ It is yet to cut down the same knee by not allowing it to stop in the offcoming zones of the Unauthorized Committee but to open up a possibility for the government to continue to weigh that the individual rights of the territory that has been covered and that these areas are not nationals. In other words, the conclusion remains to be carried on. And here's what it says: ▪ In those areas, it appears that they are now to look for some gaps that have been in the State's budget for their treatment and to try to stop them, for the better of the State. It is natural to believe that it is a means of making the government not even to enjoy the conclusion that has come but to continue working on landowners, farmers on the legalities, etc. I have to say, though, that the only positive point for this bill may be that the landowners'permission is being extended to bear the ruling of the Unanimated Committee under the courts and be reimbursed for the Committee. This has long been the struggle of Iceland's Landsam takers, but it says: 7th. The bill is a directive designed to increase land owner's potential to re-arguate the Wild Committee, which is completed by not requiring the approval of the Data Centre, i.e. Governments, as well as the proposed reimbursement of the Commission under administrative legislation, will be extended. That's a good thing. - You're right to say this is important. The organization says that the bill's proposal to reimburse the state's authority to reimburse the state's tenets is in general an advantage for the government. If they are natural, they are reducing equality, while diluting government sources to increase the claims of the operation of a noncombat board and providing new requirements after completion of the treatment of a non-committee committee. You should keep this under control: After the treatment has finished, it is permitted to supply new requirements. The organization also says that this plan has failed to destroy the trust that has developed between the State and landowners in the areas where these cases have passed and the National Association of landowners want to call purgatory a wilderness commission. In this respect, there is an excellent expression in itself. The review says: ▪ In accordance with current laws, the State cannot again describe the demands of a land that has previously been treated by the Unanimated Committee but has been ruled or judged by a land of possession. It is the relevant landowners who thought that the treatment for the Wild Committee was finally completed and that they could have their own land in peace, that they would have to go through such brutalities again, and that the state can almost every time it pleases them to accept the ownership of them - the Constitution of the government - again. One of the main objectives of the law on nationalisation has been that not a state of uncertainty about national property status, but a change in the amount proposed would lead to the very opposite. I think everybody sees it. It's that my mind knows nothing at all to make such a journey. Then it is proper to assume that landowners' national organization highlights 70 st. The Constitution, of the just treatment, does not see that it is being taken care of in any way. In addition, they stress 72 C.E. The constitution for the protection of property rights. Besides, I'd like to mention specifically, as I mentioned, in fact, only the opposite of what. early in this discussion, the review of the Association of Marine Owners, who make strong and serious comments to the bill, and just about the change to the treatments of the Unanimated Committee in connection with deforestation of areas outside the continent. It's the famous 5th fart. The bill. She can add an additional step in the treatment of areas beyond the shoreline of continental waters and the general public of lakes, as it is called. This role is being extended to the Wilderness Committee, which they thought was finally ending after all these years, but it is as follows. It is also the assessment of marine owners that the bill in the form it is now breaking against the 2nd capitula drift column and the 72nd gr. The 1944 constitution. These large - scale organizations believe that the bill is out of harmony with the constitution. This is serious, and such comments must be taken seriously. I'm surprised, Mr. President, that the case is all the way here when comments like this are still there. Chapter 4 of a paper with the bill says, "like a dog." The speaker and the senator traced his speech, that the 70th requirement of order be kept. The Constitution, of the just case, and of the 72nd par. the Constitution, for the protection of property rights in the implementation of changing procedures for land areas beyond the coast of the continent and for the general public of lakes. The organization has concluded that this claim does not hold an opinion, and there is something to go into the stitches, and I expect it to be done on the committee. These changes in the bill do not result in violating the Constitutional rights of the marine landlords. They make serious comments to the definition of the expression "net law", i.e. to aim, as we have seen in this discussion, the border on a distance rule, or one hundred and twenty-five feet [ 115 m] off a heavy surface. The marine owner's organization believes that this is not true at all, and it should refer to John's 2nd capitol drift column. It is based on certain depths of the sea, not on land. The organization was amazed at the work at the bill, that is actually contrary to the current John Book of Justice from 1211 on a threshold of four hugs, or 6,88 feet [6.88 m] from a massive surface to which the laws are still valid. Just keep it up. So, in a triumph, there is, in fact, an unmistakably improved possession of the state, which is completely forbidden and especially against the landowners of the sea, especially in and out of the British world. - Here are some very serious comments. Then, from 1996 onward, the U.S. Supreme Court hearing, as if I previously traced to the discussion, that it is clear to the decision of Internet songs in the light of the landowner's fishing rights, instead of the Jón Book's bottom line, as suggested in the bill. To this end, Mr. President, it is clear that it is very important that the committee considers all of this to be seriously considered, these comments and comments received by the committee. I've traced two of them, and more senators have entered them, please. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason was also the source of reviews that are the same. It is imperative that this be heard because there is a great deal to it and when it comes to it, this can cause, if there is not careful enough work, if there is a financial obligation, and if this is involved, much damage. I expect the committee now to give careful consideration to this and reach an acceptable conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u16	Mr. President. I'm gonna come up here and say something because I think there's a pretty big word in the discussion. Hv. paritaprevir Birgir's Þórarinsson say it's getting better in this country. Aggressiveness has also been said in farms' possession, that this is what is being done with it, that it is the result of this bill. I'll come up first and foremost to protest. As shown in a bill report, the main purpose of the legal process is to overcome the uncertainty of land ownership, and it goes on both sides. There is reason to accept some of the laws of law as a review, especially in the light of the experience of transracial and rural activities, as well as the end of the work of the Wild Committee. The remaining issues are largely those that may not be concerned and are complex and difficult to deal with. It's been handled all right, then. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir did so in his background speech. She stated that the divine law in the book of John had not been canceled but was still valid. So I can't see that it has to be made up of some special discussion. However, there is an increasing stage that is being added to the extent of the data collection, some of which are reduced to islands and rocks simply exist. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. A senator, though my answer may have been primarily to enhance his clarity, whether this is not for the benefit of farmers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u17	Mr. President. The answer is soon to be answered, w. Senator. I believe that this legal process in which the government has been represented for more than 20 years is not for the benefit of landowners or farmers. On the contrary, this has created farmers with enormous concern and expense. I remind you, as I said at the beginning of my speech, that it was believed by prayer that this was only to explain the essential uncertainty, etc. and farmers wouldn't have to worry about the costs in this regard because they would bring it all back. On the contrary, there was nothing true about it. Many farmers have had to go to an enormous expense as a result of their government's lawsuits, and they have not been reformed. It is vital to sharpen it, and the committee should take special note of whether it was not proper for the government to enter it and to pay back the cost of their initial promise, but it has not been established. I think it's a good thing to do. In addition, the bill has been opening the way for the government to continue working on these issues, even though the conclusion has come. They have been able to trust that once these matters were completed, they would not need to worry about the continuation of the government and the claim and the discovery of any gaps that could possibly lead to further legal proceedings. That's what the bill goes on, and I feel it's a clean, direct approach to landowners and farmers on the grounds of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u18	Mr. President. I wondered, " Do I have a word for it? ' A senator in the beginning, as if the whole country in Iceland is the land of farmers. I could not understand a word at any time. A senator like that. If that's his interpretation, I must object to that interpretation. What's being done here is to sort out who's got what. It may even need to be. to do this by checking the sources, by collecting data. That's why I think it's a good thing to be simplifying how to do it. To date, it is only the state that has not had the opportunity to change a claim, but others have been able to do so, and they need to be some equal in both ways. I believe that's what we're doing with the bill, i.e. to ensure that there is equal resolution and that the difficult issues that can be over when it comes to determining what is and what is not. The nature of the case began with what was the easiest. The hard work remains, and then we need a clear procedure on how it is done. I think with the bill it's taking a very important step toward doing it. As we have seen, though, the matter will be taken into account, so that some things may be cut off. [[The president calls.]] But I say again, I believe that in the ground, it is the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u19	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. Hv. A senator asked me if I thought that farmers really own all the land, there is no such thing as Landland. What I meant in this case is that farmers were led to believe that, when this journey was in its time, there was an explanation of uncertainty. Farmers have been willing to explain uncertainty, but they were also told that this would cost them without cost. Then what happens? The State presents its highest demands and is far larger and more demanding than expected in the beginning. Then farmers must resort to protection at the appropriate cost, etc. Which I said unto them before, that they might receive their reward. They received it in a small way, and many of them own considerable amounts of money running around. To make it clear, this journey was quite different from that of farmers at the outset, and it should be kept in place, then. Senator. Other than that, I believe that it was being opened by the bill to continue this process; when men finally believed that it would come to an end, and there was a measure of calmness, as it were. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson farms rightly referred to him. But I understand that the policy is in the process of fighting because it is clearly clear that this matter should be continued. They're going to turn to the sea where they didn't expect, and there's an explanation that's not quite true and that's skimming at Jón's Book, etc. [[The president calls.]] I just think there's a lot of stuff on this road that's completely incorruption to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u20	V.E.G. President. I'm going to come up here and say a few words from the past history of the Committee opinion of the national bill and the decision of a country. I feel that the discussion has been very nice and that it has calmed my mind, and that the matter will also be taken up, and further discussion will be discussed, and, as noted in the comments. When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir The Birgir son of an Ármannsson would be the course for the matter to be handled in a just and quiet way. What struck me in the eye of reading this matter is more likely to turn toward the seas, islands, and rocks, and what was presented in the history of the committee at the head of the river. paritaprevir Ólason's Terrain on the minority opinion of the General and Education Committee, as a matter of course. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir sign, and I'm not going to repeat it. The concern you see in the reviews is my opinion of all the rights. I'm amazed that the matter has come to this place based on the reviews. The book of John will be spoken of, and criticism has been shown. Not to have been testified by the excellent laws which are since 1211, and are always with people, though it happened, when I was heard in a matter. paritaprevir Gunnarsdóttir Gunnsdóttirs, that nothing had been taken up since 1919, I know nothing about it, but these laws are in effect and have only recently come true where they apply. I just want to quote some text in one of the comments I have here on the phone. It refers to the distance rule where Internet laws are defined at a distance of 115 feet [ 115 m] from a massive surface. In this regard, the size of grid songs is of importance, with two definitions, a depth marker, and a distance rule both of which aims for large flow. In the majority of cases, the depth target laws provide a much larger area of the ocean than the distance rule and all associated fish fishing conditions in the affected area as well as sea income. So there are great legitimate interests at stake. This is especially true in British Germany, where these two things really apply depending on where you are in the butterfly. A hundred and forty-five feet [ 115 m] from heavy snow ebb is actually appropriate, with further depth than on the east and north Brefjords, and then these old lines of Jón's book on the depth rule, four hugs, or about 6.8 meters [6.8 meters], are a fine price because there's a lot of shallow water from the islands, or even further out, and it's coming out well. It's odd not to mention this in the report, and I hope the discussion will be corrected. The report, about some of the articles on the bill, was about 5. .., reports that high in 11,000 islands and cuts along Iceland's shores have been drawn into maps but only a small part of them have a name. They sent in a review and made a comment on this; however, most of them carry an island and cut a name, if not all, and I must agree with it. I know quite a few things about Bárfjordur, and although I may not quite know what the islands and the rocks are, there are a lot of numbers over it. And they shall bear names of all islands, and all that is grass's, and every harvest whereof I know. I don't know that nothing cuts a name. So I find it a little strange to see this text, that it's said that a small part of it has names. In fact, names that do not come out of the sea during a massive flood, so to speak. I felt that there would also be more work to be done. This is what I would like to make. It has been observed, as I said earlier, in previous talks and reviews, that speakers are concerned that this situation has not been fully explained and that it has been better handled before this discussion. It's not in this case, but I'd like to mention it here in the rest, and have appeared in the early stages, at 2nd round. And I have asked the minister of the seafaring, which is the charge of the ironing. It has something to do with these national boundaries. In other words, in the minds of all those who own islands and land to sea and make unfair use of this, a tax or a resource price is taken from clog's heart. They liken it completely to the fact that they had to pay the resources by mowing the grass on the island as well. I'd like to put this aside to raise the issue that this is rather unfair, but it's bordering on a violation of property rights because what comes out of the water at someone and then it's amazing that the person needs to pay the resource money by making use of it. Otherwise, I'm not going to keep this further, hoping that the committee will work out the errors presented in speeches and reviews, and I'll be watching that from now on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u21	Mr. President. I'm only going to participate in this discussion of bill to legalize the law of nationalisation and the decision of national property, nationalisation and rights, as it is called. There are some things I wanted to mention. First, there are several goals listed in a paper with the bill, and I'm going to go over them in the first place. It is first regarding the planned retirement of the Wilderness Committee, that these laws are being set to correct the procedure and make it more comfortable or more efficient to allow the planned retirement of a noncombat board to be tolerated. As for this, I say, I remember the time, Mr. President, when a nomad committee was formed, and it's gone a long time ago. [[For example, you're an adult too.]] I think it's been 22 years. And I remember more, Mr. President. I remember what was said at that time because it was thought that a board of the Wild Committee would complete work in ten years, I think it was about six or eight years, that it should be completed in 2007 at the latest. Since then, 13 years have passed, and it is now scheduled to complete in four years. And what is this, Mr. President, has cost the nation? It's certainly a nice bonus for the lawyers and lawyers who have been working around the table, i.e. People on behalf of the government, defenders on behalf of farmers and judges on behalf of the government. How much has this cost? I'd love to get numbers over it. Maybe they exist, I haven't seen them, but they're hundreds of millions and I'm sure they're much more than that. This is in no doubt billions, Mr. President, over 22 years of this operation. It was this way in the country back in the day that if the people were arguing about some small game, which they used to do, the farmer, who would not be able to stand in such a rush for years, at the appropriate cost, bought the land that was covered. Buying the country and saving their time, saving time, saving their trouble, and saving their means may have been much less expensive. But the government has decided to take this journey long ago, and it is not completed but it is now scheduled to be completed in four years. I certainly hope it will, but this is inaccessiblely expensive and without much national gain. What is the economic advantage because the border is there somewhere between property and national lands? I also see in the bill that something has been left behind because farmers and the state, especially the state, are expected to be given increased authority to adopt older cases where demand has been established and perhaps there are some landless owners or at least some landowners. They have not been determined to be considered sufficiently. One of the aims of the bill is to stop into these holes and give the government permission to retake these cases at a cost and protection on the part of those who may consider the right of the same country. That was one of the things I was going to discuss. Of course, I was also going to talk about the areas that the state is going to work in - it may not be fully clear if it hasn't been done long ago, it seems to me - that an uninhabited committee will address the issues involved in identifying property rights to land beyond the shoreline of the continent, as it is said, and then the public lakes. There, people meet landowners who feel that their rights are being taken, and there are disagreements over the understanding of property rights, how far - reaching it is, for example. in e-mails and what the internet laws are at all. For some reason, Mr. President, the General, or the lawmakers, have decided to take out old ordinances that I love very much. If the law does not simply remove it, I feel that it is unreceptive from the Hall of Laws, as I understand it, and it seems to be regarding some provision here, both in the book of John and in the Grey Sea. I especially care for the regulations of Grey Eyes, that no exposé has been made. And I have to say, The Gorges of the land, The Book of Standards, which shall say, ▪ When sealet stands on the ground, twenty grids are built deep, out of land, or out of cut, and skins out of the sea to the sea as the thaw stands on the ground. It can't be found, I've been looking for this before, in the lawroom, not in the computer library, but it seems like it hasn't been canceled yet, and I miss it. There are also other laws, such as those found in the book of John, which appear to have been made out with no obvious explanation, Mr. President. It speaks of a stipple of a deep cell net of some ▪20, which we read repeatedly in the comments about the bill from the owners of the sea and landowners, which they believe would refer to the depth criteria of those gray - eyed rivers and John's books, as if it had not been removed from the law and even 1849, when the fishing decree is given, had been specifically stated in the 21 streg. The decree, that hunting there should be for the former ordinances, namely, From the grayás and the book of John, which is now not to be found; neither is the 21st chapter. The order. The tracks are removed, and this is led to the fact that in ordinary human languages, there is a difference between the normal understanding of Internet law, i.e. 60 hugs, or 115 meters, that can be found on a wide scale in the laws, or a depth target, that I was referring to, which is then somewhere around a depth of 7 feet [7 m], which is often much farther out of the sea and much more, especially on shallow shores, such as the Brassurfjord, and at the bottom of many distances. Mr. President. It is important that this is spoken of, that the State is not overindulging in the rights of landowners, and that many have mentioned it in the past. I don't need to mention the constitution that protects the right of possession, of course not to be handled by humans' rights of possession. According to the opinion of many landowners, the State was organized by great inequities in these matters in the past. The first time that a newspaper committee started work, a newspaper written in the press accused the State of much indiscriminateness toward landowners in a demanding manner. After many quarrels, peace of some kind came to the fore. But I would like to warn in the General's symposium that the State will act in such a way against its citizens in the vague aim of seeking to seize the rights of property that may often be difficult for humans to prove. There's something else I want to draw attention to, and it's public lakes. This is a time to make special provision for the public of lakes. That's interesting. Will the government, Mr. President, begin to demand that landowners have some right to the public of lakes? What if two people have a lake on either side, and it is a large lake that the public is in the middle of it? Will the Kingdom, then, require some kind of right there, whether it is a school course or a fishing right or some sort of water rights or something else? Is it really so that we should begin to see that the state begins to spend large amounts of money, effort, and expense in making such demands? I don't quite understand what you're going to do by starting a possible lawsuit or at least Expenditures for the general population of lakes. Usually, I think, all the coasts of lakes depend on property, except maybe in the peoples themselves. I'm asking, what's the point there? Is that the water of the rights where farmers count for fishing? Is that what humans are slying about and going to do to the bottom and to do the rights of learning and all that is called, except perhaps some kind of hunting rights, to the property of the State under these laws, the peoples' law? So I would like to reiterate what I have said: " I believe the state should be careful in these matters, not of disorderly regard of the landowners, and to set down its standards, and to put it out of moderation. '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u22	Madam President. I'm a special student of innovation in almost every aspect of human life and even in the law books. But I have to admit, I'm a little surprised to hear what I'm saying. A senator, legally instructed, brings what I can understand as different from a complete innovation in the interpretation of John's declarations. As we have seen during the discussion, they focus on the provision of fishing rights. That is why I wondered for what purpose. A senator straddles here from a mesh, such as in a giant net, according to the argument that this is potentially contrary to the rules. It's what it is. A senator saying this is a matter of fishing? Where it is. A senator is versed in all I can do but, president, let me ask, Count why. A senator's not specifically pointing out something in the law, should we tell the book of John, that they have disappeared? Is it so simple to cancel ancient law columns that it is enough to be released in other laws?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions, which I simply didn't understand fully. I realized, though, how he was dealing with the law and when it was considered abolition. All I said in the speech chair earlier was that I hadn't found these laws in the library of the computer. I even asked that in the platform if it could be right that they had been suspended here, formally, I meant, of course, or were you covering this up? They would no longer be published and where they were then. Are they in force or not? I hadn't looked for more, and I asked if they had been officially canceled, and I couldn't find them. All I said was the gray saying I specifically mentioned and this Jón's song. Actually, I knew it was 1st. The fishing directive would have been canceled. That's my explanation for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u24	President. It's always good when you can help people in life, and there are some things in the universe here, even though they don't feel on the Internet and even though I haven't made lice in the local legal collections on the Internet. However, prior to the Commission's interview, an adjustment of the bill to the laws we are considering was made to a greater part of the General and Education Committee. In this regard, John's Gospel, the law of the 2nd capitula drift column, and a host of questions arise. A senator thought aloud here in a pinta just before. It has been entered that the right to fish and to run is based on the depth principle of the dog. A senator spoke of earlier, 20 mesh sealets. This article specifically shows that there is no direct ownership at the bottom of the ocean within the Internet layers defined as such. Since the rest of John's book has not been canceled, the owners of the sea still may not have the exclusive right to fish within the Internet layers that are so set out according to John's book. It was with the President's permission, although requested afterward, a reading from the committee's opinion. At times, we might consider the evidence that we are considering.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u25	Mr. President. I'm not going to go in such a noose for an example. A senator like him was here earlier. I'd covered it, and the Jón's books are now in the Hall, many of them, but not the particular one that I mentioned for depth purposes. And the comments in the Committee that this value - if it is not in the library and it may have been canceled, what is the value? The nominee? So I had legitimate reason to come up here and mention that this goal was not to be found in the library, no matter what this committee's suffering. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u26	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a board of committees on the bill to legalize the changing of various laws due to the cooperation of the European Economic Environment Agency on consumer protection, research clearance and administration. A greater part of the General and Education Committee is considered. The Commission has consulted Þórsdóttir Ólafsson on the matter in its discussion of the media committee, the Ásthildur from the employment and innovations Department, the Heiðdís Magnúsdóttir Magnúsdóstir and Sigurður Sveinsdóttir Júlía from the National Institute of the Media, the Guðmundur's Ásgeirsson from the National Institutes, Áði Hjölju Hjörnólna, and the Inga Þorvaldsdóttir Árnadóttir from the National Institute of Iceland, Símonardóttir and Ýr Vésteinsdóttir from Lúðvíksdóttir and Þóðóðóðóðóðóðóðóðóðóðóðóðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurððððððððurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurðurður The committee received reviews from the FDA, the media board, the National Institutes of Economic Affairs, the Neighbours Institute, and Peritoneal Protection. The bill suggests that changes in the area of consumer protection will be made as a result of the implementation of European Parliament and the Council, from December 12, 2017 of cooperation between national authorities responsible for enforcing consumer protection laws and decontamination of Regulation No. 2006/2004. The changes aim to ensure that governments implementing the Commission's legislation on the protection of consumers, to which the Regulation applies, have the authority to investigate and enforce as 9th. Brew, like 10th parr. The Regulation, requires. Along with this bill, the Allied Council bill was given a proposal that the Regulation will be adopted as such in Icelandic correctly by a reference method. In fact, it is falsely referred to in Article 330 of printed committees, that is to be a reference to the language No. 331. I assume they're going to try and correct it. The bill also provides proposals for changes in the surveillance of the Netostry based on financial and marketing surveillance legislation, No. 57/2005. It is suggested that the principle of reconciliation be established, the publication of guide rules and priorities. The review of the Commission was primarily about the changes proposed on the provision of commercial and post-marketing surveillance laws, No. 57/2005, telecommunications Act, No. 33/2005, as well as media law, No. 38/2011. At that time, the Commission received a memo called the Department of Professional Road and Neoplasms on the subject of comment on the bill. Now I'm not going to lie here reading the committee opinion beyond what I've already considered. The nominee is nonexistent, on ten pages, and the development of more parts of the General and Education Committee is then made up of a special Senate document on four pages. I would like to mention, though, that there is a suggestion for a change in the value of a law. Twenty-seventh. On January 17, 2020, the bill is suggested to gain the value of the law. That time has passed and contributes much of it to change the law so that it will already be accepted. Otherwise, I refer to what I said earlier that the opinion of the committee is here on ten pages, followed by the adjustment of the forms on the roof. 1035. Under the committee's opinion, Páll Magnússon, chairman of the Committee, Árnadóttir Kolbrönnadótttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Árnadóttir Þóra, Guðmundur and Steindór Valdimarsson, Birgir Ármannsson of Aar, Jándímsson, and Turnar Ingi Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u27	A respectable president. Initially, I was going to offer a written opinion, but it would have developed, so it might not end up in an entire committee opinion, though much is involved in the slight change that I want to discuss. Also, I thought about making a change proposal that reflected that change, but then I discovered that the adjustment proposal would include a second vote for the so-called B team, which I will define more later. I fell away when I realized that it's just as possible to vote for them in a vote at the end of the 2nd. Therefore, there are no written documents of my language. I make it sufficient to discuss my warnings only to the bill, which is otherwise, as far as I can see, the most excellent. After discussing these matters, we will see how it works. I'll have to mention, though, these B-teams of the bill. It may sound a bit complicated, but the b-joins I'm talking about are under bans where a telecommunications company is involved. These are the "B" teams of the following: y., D-joins 10. par., d-joints 13. y., C-joints 15. Okay, y-yeah, y-ye-ye-ye-ye-ye-ye-ye-ye-ye-ye. par., D- team 18. par., 23rd par. and b-joints, 25. g. This may sound terrible, but it's the same team, it's the same words that are repeated over and over again. The bill is set up with regard to the change in various laws, as indicated by the name, and there the same change is inserted. It's about the various institutions, e.g. The European Medicines Agency may react to any harmful behaviour to the overall interests of consumers with one of the four possibilities a, b, c and d. This is the b-joint of these four joints that I comment on. The A team is that the Agency can provide a requirement for bans so that the provider or server who operates on the Internet soil will have to remove material from the network server or set up a clear warning given by consumers when entering the Internet soil. It's the a- force, so there's nothing about him checking. This means that there can be a restraining order, someone who can be hosted, for example. The website needs to remove the contents from that address. Taking material off the Internet, often not, is not necessarily the most fun thing you do in online matters, but sometimes it may be necessary. I can't see that it's damaging the idea behind the Internet or technical implementation that's suitable for it. It's the a- force, it's fine with him. Then I'll go c-joint, jump over the b-join for now, I'll explain it last. The C team means that it can be set up by law to remove, disable, or limit access to Internet servers. All right, that's fine, too. The D- team includes shutting, lock or refile of domains within the respective organisation, e.g. Marketing Authorisation Holder. Again there is little about self - examination. All of these are emergency measures, and the bill is very clear and none of these are meant to be done regularly. This should be done under very special circumstances when other options have been tried. That's one reason why I think it's justified. The B team, however, involves having a communications company limit access to Internet access. That's a fundamental difference. A respectable president. It is the same fundamental difference as going to make a landlord care for some of the State's duties under some particular circumstances or to let the Vegas intend to make sure that somewhere in his home owner's duty. Communication companies such as the phone or phone calls or someone else can get an order, as per law, and need to close access to third party as an intermediate. That, in my opinion, is inadvisable. It's basically incomprehensible and it's the wrong way, and I don't believe it. Therefore, I will vote against these b-joins, which I listed earlier, when it comes to a vote at 2nd. We will see with other requirements. Happily, the bill does not suggest that this is done very regularly. Rather, it will take place only under very special circumstances when other things have been tried. This is not always the case when people have an idea of setting a ban on the other or this, whether news media or so - called file sharing deli pages that allow users to share the authors' documents' unauthorized material. On the other hand, there is a fundamental factor in the fact that the Internet is supposed to work, so we're all connected to everyone, in my opinion. There is a very undesirable development if national or regionalities somehow begin to separate themselves from one another. Some of it makes the business itself. For example, Netflix did not let you in at the time if you were from Iceland. It was better, though, for at least Netflix itself made the decision. I thought it was boring, and there's one side effect of old-fashioned authorial rights that set up that position. But it is more tolerated from a technological point of view. The fact that the authorities are shutting down the intermediate requirement for users that they may overlook such limitations, and this knowledge is made suspicious and has been made suspicious, despite its wide scope. That's the technology that, for example. Chinese authorities and Saudi authorities are trying to stop users from using them. I don't like all the interventions involved that make such technology suspicious because it's the technology that makes Saudi and Chinese read about democracy and individual freedom beyond their borders, a very important right. We should, if anything, design our legislation so that as many people might overlook the limitations described in the B- force I mentioned. That's the basic reason I'm against these b-ions, it shouldn't work, I don't want this way working. I don't want a nation to shut down a share of the Internet for its citizens. I don't like it. I want the citizens to have all the weapons they need to get past these limits. I think it's important that democracy works, and I assure you that it is essential to achieve democracy in some terrible states, such as Saudi Arabia and China, to name two obvious examples. This bill and the other issue, No. 331, based on the European directive, I think. This is a matter of principle, excuse me. In the 9th. the European Regulation shall have these ways that are listed in the joints a◯d, which include this source, due to Article 9. The Regulation. In contrast, this is different in the Regulation. It's not four, it's three, and it's not even number 1, 2 and 3, they're called ii, ii, and ii, and it's used the goddamn Roman figures that I personally resent, if not clear. These three sections include what is reflected in the bill as the a-, c-, and d joints. But then there is a final statement, with permission of the president, including requesting that a third party or another official authority carry out such measures in the first place. I was now inquiring about this committee in the treatment of the General and Education Committee on the matter of the legal interpretation of the Ministry. The legal interpretation is that the team I mentioned earlier is necessary to fulfill this Regulation. It is possible that it is right. However, I am not entirely convinced that this is right. I'd rather give it a shot at letting go of the b-party instead of having it on page 9. See, the exact "G" section of the 4 mg. 9. ... because I don't think the wording clearly indicates that the middle-of-the-view is going to do this, that a telecommunications company does this. I see no reason why it shouldn't be reported specifically. That a third party or another official authority performs arrangements, which are described in the joints a, c and d, I can imagine that there is something other than that a communications company or another middleman performs these actions. I guess that depends, I'd say, how the system is established in each state. One nation could have its domain registration set up so that it may be the third service agency to handle it, but the registration is done by a government agency or vice versa. I don't think it's obvious that we're compelled to pick up this b-party under the regulations and for these reasons I think it's preferable to remove it. I also asked for the treatment of the case in the General and Education Committee about the extravagation of such a ban. It has to be said that these events can't be expected to be a terrible many, if any, since a ban will be required on the basis of the B- force I listed earlier in time, and hopefully not. But when grounding, e.g. in a shared.net or thepiratebay.se at the time, I think it is extremely important to have a public list of what has been banned. The problem is that the state is in the same mood to advertise what it is that the state is trying to prevent users from accessing. It may be more relevant when it comes to the file sharing and such, the mix-up, because this is probably talking about service, such as a small loan company or something like that, which users don't work very hard to access, they wouldn't really try to get into the service if they couldn't look it up at zero one, in contrast to such things as Authorized material in which people are willing to spend one minute or two on getting past some limitations. Not that it is in itself that it is difficult, it is a simple matter to get into pirateBay, you go into Google and you tell them how difficult it is to get into the first page, then you're in on piratebay, more complicated. More important, this technology is not used today, not normal, because it cannot work unless it goes too far as I have transferred some fistulas. I have to admit that the problem with these b-parties may not be extremely serious in the context of other comparable regulations that have been legalized or proposed. On the other hand, as I previously traced, it is important to me that there is a clear and central list somewhere officially, a list of all that has been limited access to, why and when the ban expires. This did not get a clear answer, I thought, on a universal and educational committee, i.e. when such a ban comes out. So when would that end? Suppose someone sets up a small loan company, does it in Kazakhstan, or in some area where we find it very difficult to influence the course of things. There's a restraining order and a Síman, and call, and Vodafone, and all these communications companies, they say, "You don't let people go on this page." They will. Then the little loan company stops, it's over and there's some other company, a dollby business, or someone selling bread and cakes or anything. The same IP-talan is used as the same address. Does that mean, then, that there is a decline in the law? I can't see that it's going to drop automatically. I can see that someone could go through some specialss and cancel the ban because the conditions for that action would no longer exist. Those answers were given to us in the General and Education Committee. But I can't imagine that this is really going to work. If this law of b-joints were involved, we'd always be losing a little bit of the Internet. A little, but still someone. Basically, I don't like it. When we put a restraining order or some restrictions on how long such restrictions should be carried out, at least, even if we agreed to be justified under some circumstances, to be careful about how long such restrictions should exist and under what circumstances exactly they fall apart. If they don't drop automatically, I don't believe that someone will realize that they should cancel some page that they don't know exists - because there's a restraining order. So there are both legal and Internet reasons why I'm against these b-joins. It is extremely tempting to go out on comparable measures that are much more serious and that are much more damaging to the Internet, but I intend to let it go this time, even if only because I doubt that someone will go through all this talk just to listen to that other important message. I'll get him in there later. But saying that I'm going to cross the available b-parties and will see to it that my support for the rest of the case is in the final payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u28	A respectable president. I recommend the Management Board of General and Education Committee on the bill for the cooperation of the European Economic Environment Agency on consumer protection, and is presented in the name of a greater part of the Committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Ásthildur Þórsdóttir Ólafsson by the Directorates of Business and Developments, Matthildur Benediktsdóttir Magnúsdóttir, and Sigurður Guðmundsson Dröfn from the National Intelligence Committee, Þórunn Anna from the International Habits and Inga of the National Institutes and the Inguna Árnadóttir and thekrauts of the National Affairs. The committee received reviews from the Narcotics and the Neighbours Office. The bill suggests the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council No. 2017/2394 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for implementing consumer protection laws provided in Icelandic legislation. Furthermore, the European Economic Protection Act, No. 56/2007, will be canceled. At the same time as the bill, it provides a bill for changes in consumer protection laws affected by the Regulation, Article No. 330 and I spoke earlier. In handling the matter before the committee, there were no material comments on the matter. The majority, however, suggest that the bill be added to a law code. In addition, the more part contributes to changing the value of the bill. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following modification: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. After 1st. Come a new article, along with a headline, as follows: A field of values. These laws apply to the cooperation of the government in the European Economic Area on consumer protection and sources for the research and implementation of consumers by governments. 2. 1.mg. Section 4. put it this way: This law already comes into effect.◯ Under the committee, the writer Birgir Magnússon, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Ingi Andri Pétursson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Árnadóttir Örún Örún Örjörn, Birgótir Aarmannsson, Steindór Valdimarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u29	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a board of committees with a financial and business proposal for a bill to correct the change of various laws regarding the permit, on deck. 1025. The main element of the bill suggests that there will be a decline in terms of permission or registration due to the further stated activities that are not considered necessary to be in law. In addition, the bill suggests that laws that are considered out - of - date and that they no longer have independent values will be canceled. Other aspects of the bill's subject are referred to as a report. In between 12 and 13. Law on Shopping, No. 28/1998, a permit is required to run a trade or commission using a vehicle as well as the conditions of such a permit. With a 5. The bill suggests that these measures will be removed and that this will no longer be a work permit. In the treatment of the case at the Committee, this change was criticized and included: It was pointed out that the permit unit created maintenance for sales companies and contributed to greater trust and expertise in business through the use of vehicles. The rights of consumers have been shown to be far better guaranteed today than when a license to sell used vehicles was applied in 1994, especially with the development of a law on business control and marketing, No. 57/2005, and a competitive song, No. 44/2005. These laws apply to all occupations, and specific evidence is necessary to increase official monitoring of a particular activity in excess of others. Otherwise, I refer to the committee's opinion. In the field of industrial law police are assigned surveillance of legislation. In the treatment of the matter, the commission was made to point out that the surveillance was unremarkable and lacking. You might want to reexamine the global surveillance of industrial law. It was then pointed out that there was a need and a record of individuals who have received the rights of the law. The committee is aware that a minister has already appointed a group to report a report with a reimbursement in this regard. According to a minister's commission, industrial law monitoring has somehow moved to the market and there is a lack of resources to stop unskilled activities in the legal industry. Most charges are dropped, and the rare occurrences of the conviction of the ratio are unlikely to have a warning effect. The Minister's Group is aimed at reviewing industrial law monitoring with the aim of improving its implementation so that all persons in the field of law-sponsored industry work according to the same protocol. Work should also include shortened terms of therapy by the government and increased effectiveness of monitoring, e.g. so that fracture repairs have a real warning effect. The Committee encourages the work of the staff to include considers whether and how it is wise to keep and publish a list of published male and master letters according to industrial law. It should be noted, then, that at the time of the bill's death, a series of licences will be removed and, as a result, there will no longer be a basis for their remuneration. The committee suggests that appropriate remuneration parties will be put away in the laws on the increase of the state funds in agreement. The committee also suggests that provisional regulations for commercial work fall away, as this no longer serves a purpose. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the bill will be accepted by means of the changes made by the committee's opinion. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Smári Mccarthy, and Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gundarsdótttir, were absent from the case. Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir writes under contract at 4 mgr. 18th par. Orders of staff members of the Generals. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " The men of Brutís, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, who is a guide, and I run into her, in her absence, the Þorsteinn's son of Hamlund, Braun the son of Níelsson, Oddný G.; the Harðardóttir of Chardur, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and Silja the Dögg of Döggi, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, as well as the one standing here, Óli Björn, the son of Kárason.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u30	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a change in various laws regarding permit measures and simple regulations. I have to say, it is completely incomprehensible for me to decide to abstain from licences for the sale of used vehicles. I don't know how to think of this. It's incomprehensible to me that people say that it's okay because it's better spent elsewhere. I'm asking why. In view of the FIB's comments, the head of these laws explains how he can make such a claim, and it clearly shows that this can have such an effect. This can have an effect, as we have seen, in Europe, where there is a kind of war situation, where people can install fake car sales and cheat. We're going that way instead of adding up the legal requirements for a car sale. The reason is that there is little money to discuss is impossible. Although there may be tens of thousands, there may be tens of millions. I'm saying for my part that I don't have any reason to take it out. I'm asking why. One authority: How does he see this reasoning, why on earth do we not heed a warning from Europe? This can lead to the growth of all kinds of illegal activities. And would it not be reasonable to assume that such a sale is needed because a large amount of money is being taken?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u31	Mr. President. Here, perhaps a fundamental difference in the ideologies we have. A senator will follow. I'm afraid there's a special reason to allow a certain job to happen. Here in the past, there may have been valid reasons why, although I'm going to question it, there should be a special license to sell a vehicle. I don't think there's any evidence. In addition to what I said in the past, it may be noted that there are private rights for consumers to get their rights to the traders, which include the law on consumer loan judges, No. 81/2019. According to the law, the NTSB will replace the NTSB of fiscal and Service Committee. I think it's perfectly obvious that when we keep these laws in mind, consumer loan judges, when we have the competitive law on business and market, there is no way that consumer interests are being walked in the least way. This could even lead to increased service to those who are buying used cars because of the increased competition that is involved in canceling permit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u32	A respectable president. I can't agree with what. Senator. He points to this option, this charge, but has he read about the cost? The person must live up to the cost, and it must shut down many who spend little time buying cars. I also understand that lawyers cannot go to court, nor can they go to court. Hv. A senator says he wants to cut off these permit divisions. So he'd also like to dissociate license companies for real estate, wouldn't he? Why don't we just take it all the way? For my part, I say, "No, I can't see the evidence in this. " I'm asking why. Senator: Has he read the FIB report? Has he read it accurately? It makes clear what is going on. I say for my part, it's not a big deal, and I don't see why this is the only way to go. There's exactly the same evidence for having a permit in there for used cars, such as property. Hv. A senator may shake his head over it. But I say in my own dues, and I explained that those who are going to go on the legal route that is indicated have to live up to that cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u33	Mr. President. The difference between me and what. A senator is that I want the simple rule. I'd like to simplify the rules of employment and employment in general. Hv. A senator wants to authorize it as much as possible, and I'm just asking them why. A senator: Why, then, attach us to used cars? People are attacking other less - important investments. You can buy TV for one and a half million. So should we not permit it to be granted so that no one can sell TVs that are not allowed to do so? We can just take the state electronics store back, etc. There are hundreds of thousands of people on their way to buying kitchen rights. For many, it is a wonderful investment. Why don't we just let it go, too? Where are we going to end up, top dog? President? I just don't understand this discussion. We are to simplify our routine and make it easier to do business, and this is to improve the business and to improve the interests of consumers. Senator. It's that simple. History shows this and proves it, and it does not matter how often or how fast it is. A senator shakes his head.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u34	A respectable president. We're still discussing this weird bill of changing the law on permission departments, simple regulations. I have to say, you can say nothing about this speech from earlier on. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason. As the situation is today, people can sell their cars without going to a car dealer. But the situation is that it will only make you feel safer if you go to the car safe. Then you've put your responsibility on him. He's been through a permit squad and proved that he knows the rules and laws involved. It's just this security we're asking for. I say for my part that we should increase our demand and make it even better so that people will be even more safe because they have recently provided examples of automobile cars where mileages were moved down. It tells us that there are offenders out there, and that's why we have to tighten these laws, make more demands. I say for me that mixing into this kitchen rights or television sets is just a twist. We also know that we can go online and buy television or use a kitchen renovation or something, but we have no safety or guarantee of what it is like. But if we buy it through a store, we at least have a certain consumer security, so to speak. So freedom is there. What we need to do is increase safety and arrange for people who sell used automobiles to make sure that there is more security, such things as selling cars where the miles are sold, they will not return. In this context, I would like to point out the very detailed FIB report where they strongly object that this route has gone and even point out that the North, Denmark, and Sweden are taking part, trying to curb illegal car sales that has come up on the Internet and that the car market is floundering. They point out exactly how we're doing here. But what are we doing? We're just letting in anyone who has no idea of law and order. Someone can just start a car sale and start selling without having a license, just start selling. What is the responsibility of doing things like this? I can't get it, and I'm kind of speechless. If we're talking about a huge cost of getting a license to run cars, the fee is only 41,500. This is not too much for one person or anyone. This is a 47 - hour course. I noticed, too, that on average, the selling of used vehicles is on average every year, in the range of 60,480 billion. We're not talking about any pennies. FIB points out that last of us were 2,600 vehicles for sale on the website.is so that it is not as if anyone could sell it. And on seven major automobile sites on Facebook there are over 400,000 members, i.e. individuals who have requested entry. So nothing's being stopped. But there is a measure of security in saying to consumers: You can choose. You can choose to shop with someone you don't know who is, whether he has any experience in selling cars, or you have a choice to go to a responsible car store. That's exactly what we're talking about here, trying to get the bottom of it. It seems, though, that this was to be discarded. Here's the word FIB says, with the permission of a president: In the North and around Europe, we will discuss ways in which we can draw close to an unacceptable situation in the car trade. In Europe celebrations have been particularly seen as "the Swedish model of the model, " which is a means of improving business practices and consumer protection. It is disappointing that consumer and consumer ministers's invitation to break down a simple system that represents industry and consumers rather than tear down. It just shows in black and white that there's something wrong with this, and I'm telling you, in my respect, we're not supposed to accept this case at all. I would point to the real estate sale in that context, we wouldn't want it to be so that the legal value of real estate sales would be removed and anyone could take over and start selling property. That's exactly the same thing. We, as I have repeatedly, have to put this into place, make more demands so that those who shop in a legitimate car store are at least sure that the person is responsible and even harden it so that those who are cheating by moving down miles will not be able to do so. During this council, we are under obligation to make sure that such business practices are not completed, and we can do so by making sure that this bill as it is here will not be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u35	Mr. President. One of the aims of the Independence Party, as I understand it, is to increase freedom and fight for healthy business, to compete enough, and to put business first in an honest and natural way. We have seen two manifestations of this independence policy at the present assembly. The independent group has already found members who operate the market manager's activities, such as the U.S.A. A taxi driver who is now to cut down on the trog, who is to benefit the consumers as they are told. Similarly, a single class of people who are legally validated, who have professional guarantees, etc., are taking all of these in the name of Liberation, and who give permission to the general consumers who are in the position of investing in perhaps their second largest investment during their lifetime. Then I'm just talking about the average loss, his biggest investment is possibly the real estate in which he lives, and number two is the vehicle or vehicle he has. A recent review of the bill presented here, written by sources who have a direct link to this operation and a great deal of experience in the way it is carried out, is a warning against the approval of the bill. It's the Icelandic car owner's Fong and the Garage Association. But the Independence Party says: "What do these men know about this? We just need to do this so that it is simple to start this operation and then have a committee in a town, which definitely doesn't cost anything, and the independence party has started because it is shrinking the Kingdom system, to manage it if anything comes up in the business of these parties, i.e. car sales and consumers. Mr. President. There is no such thing as the legal value of a car sale between 1990 and 1995, likely in 1994. It is because, at that time, merchants often suffered financial damage and various inconveniences because of shopping people who were not able to do so, did not do their job as they should. That's why they put the rule around these activities. West America has an excellent language that somehow is that if something is okay, it should not be changed, it should not be appropriate. This arrangement that has been made since 1994, Mr. President, has just worked out beautifully. There has been little question about the need to go to court with disagreements over sales and purchases of used automobiles simply because the work environment of those who are supposed to handle business has been in the way that both men have had to have legal and professional guarantees very close. The commission says, with permission of the president: ▪ In spite of the failure of the permit, the committee will continue to enable users of used vehicles to acquire expertise in this area until courses are made. They are encouraged to do so. They do not have to, but they are encouraged to do so. I can't imagine any man who is going to save any other trouble to attend a course that doesn't have to be done, just because he's encouraged to do so. Then you say, " If these studies are necessary, why aren't they legal? ' Where are the benefits of doing this business? You must also wonder where you're going to stop. Here, an absurd metaphor of some television project and kitchen dish was drawn up. In fact, if I remember correctly, it takes a store permit to do business at least the last time I knew, even a situation, so that comparison is pointless. You must ask with someone like this, a legitimate automobile dealer today: Where are people going to quit? Next will be the rights and responsibilities of a real estate salesman? Will open law firms be made easier? Where are we going to stop in this simple act of order? It was, as I said before, Mr. President, not of any of the rules that were inherited at the time. It seems that the person present is quite familiar with these circumstances, for as previously shown in a speech at the council, he was in the first administration of social security agencies and was one of the first to obtain these valid rights by attending a course. Hence, the person here knows quite well the conditions that existed before this campaign of order. You can talk blue in front of you because with this bill approved, it'll be all flat and flat and there won't be any trouble. But I'm willing to bet a bag of chocolate raisins on that it won't. As soon as this bill is adopted and started to work, the situation will be the same as it was before 1994. So it will be such wild West conditions, and misogynistic people will storm out, just as they were before 1994. In fact, most people learn from experience, even an animal in a lab home learn from experience. If they get a flow, they don't go where he is anymore. They go somewhere else, they learn from experience. But the independent party has not learned from experience and has no intention of learning from experience. V.E.G. Tourism, industrial and innovation ministers are not going to give much for the experience in these matters but are now going to open this market wide wide open. It is very good to simplify a rule, and, of course, it is very good to contribute to more competition, etc. But I'm just not in the same place as the Independence Party in that case. I would've wanted to go to the marketing party at a retail store or something, change the competitive law on holding, etc. It would have been a real project that would have been good for the consumers. But to get off with some larrk and go after a car dealer, it's so small. Apart from car picks, there's only one side of the business. The other party is the buyer or the buyer. And while it is most noble to make it possible and easier to establish a business enterprise, Mr. President, it is equally necessary to ensure the right of those who will do business with the same parties. This is as important as it is. But that point, Mr President, is nowhere in the cops here, nowhere. It is not to think of this group in any way or in any way unless it is pointed out that they can do their business with a committee that is to be established and, as I say, probably costs nothing and that it is supposed to increase the state estate of this committee instead of having only proper rules like values today about these transactions which keep it well well that very few cases have put their way out of business with used vehicles. The other day, a nice man who does this work told me that a lot of his time today would go into correcting some documents that are worked with when a vehicle is sold through media such as, I can't remember what they call, Brask and some stuff like that. There people are selling vehicles to one another, but they don't put the papers right. This fine man, whom I know to be truthful, told me that a great deal more of his time would now go to correct both registrations, bets, the deeds as such. All of this would be in an image. When the hard bank hits, people who have had problems with a legitimate automobile dealer are looking for a way to get off the case. But after this bill goes into effect, these same people will probably just go to this committee, where the Independence Party is going to expand the state display, to seek its rights if something comes up in their business with the rights of a car dealer, who doesn't even have to have a position according to the bill and can only be selling on the streets. As we have previously stated, those who commit to be recognized are like the Garifuna Union and the Icelandic car owner's Félava, absolutely opposed to the fact that this case will be settled in the way it is here. You must ask yourself, " Why do people want to ruin this matter so determined that they do not listen to warnings, exactly as the warning given here is. ' He could agree with nearly every word that says in these comments that I quoted, both the Driver's Association and the Icelandic automobile car owners' society. But with this, there's nothing to be done, Mr. President, nothing. So I'm still going to be the person who warns that this bill will be turned into law. I'm warning of the consequences if they do. It may well be that I'm going to join some of the liberal preachers on the part of the Independence Party. It's just gonna have to be. But I point back to what I said earlier that if you want to do something about competitive in Iceland, you should jump on the competitive act and try to skim off the most obvious defects instead of doing things that work well and chasing a small class of men who do good under considerable pressure and who have been very modest in the last two and a half decades of these changes made. Mr. President. I hope here at the council will be a mutual agreement to avoid the mistakes here on Earth. We'll make plenty of them here in this place. Of course, I will take part in winding down these mistakes at the moment, with a new legalization that I know will soon be looking at the light of the day. I will, of course, participate in correcting this efforts, which is not designed to improve the situation of used automobiles in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u36	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalise a change in the law on home loans to consumers, no. 118/2016. The bill was negotiated at the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs in collaboration with the major economys and is its objective twofold, first of all, to complete the implementation of Directive 2014/7/EU on loan agreements for consumers in the context of apartment housing. The directive is generally called the mortgage directive. With law on home loans to consumers, No. 118/2016, and Regulation on the same topic, No. 270/2017, the property loan directive was largely adopted in Icelandic. Since the Directive had not yet become part of the EEA Convention, it was not set up on loans of lenders to cross-border trade, how to conduct monitoring of such organisations and cooperate with law-oriented authorities in the European Economic Area. It is necessary to add these terms to the mortgage law now and complete it with the implementation of the directive, as it was adopted by the decision made by the joint committee No. 125/209 of the 8th May 2019. Today, no credit cards work in Iceland. If that changes, it will call for no surveillance on the part of the Department of Economic Affairs, the Bank of Iceland and the Neighbours. However, there is a small chance that creditors will start working in the country in the near future because of the expertise and smallness of the Icelandic loan market, as well as the limitations of the laws on loans in foreign currency to consumers. Second, it is the goal of the bill to change the terms of the mortgage laws and to set consumer loans, No. 33/2013, which deals with loans related to foreign currency. The main reasons for the changes are indications and inquiries received by the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs recently from individuals who receive wages in a foreign currency or who live abroad that they do not have the authority to take home loans or consumer loans in Iceland because creditors did not lend in these circumstances, although the law allows them to do so. The loan of a foreign currency refers to a loan that is borrowed from or bound to a currency other than loans or property he intends to pay his loan. This also includes loans expressed in or limited to currency other than the currency of the Member State where loans are borrowed. The above definition is relative in the sense of evaluating whether a loan is related to foreign currency is mainly determined by the consumer's position, not by the Icelandic kroner's position. This includes that when a Icelandic lender lends loans in Icelandic dollars, the loan may still fall under the term, such as if a consumer is in a currency other than Icelandic dollars or if an consumer lives in another EEA country. The nature of the matter according to the assessment, borrowing may be classified as such at the time when credit is agreed. As a result, for example. to suggest that it would be considered a loan linked to a foreign currency if someone was moving to the country and wanted to take Icelandic loans to buy property in Iceland but could prove that they had made money in a foreign currency until the loan was paid. This must be kept in mind that with law No. 36/2017, about the change in terms of growth and insurance law, Iceland's Seal Bank law, consumer loan law, and real estate loan laws, were reimbursed in this country, which had been banned from the implementation of growth and insurance laws, No. 38/2001. The Management Board's Motion Act was responding to the reasoned opinion of the EFTA on May 22, 2013, that the law against dwindling insurance in Icelandic dollars, on interest of interest rates and insurance policy, did not agree with the 40.g. The EEA agreement for free capital flow. With law No. 36/2017 was also required of the various new rights and duties of consumers and new lenders to ensure protecting consumers from such loans. At the same time, Iceland's Secret Bank was authorized to use a national language tool, i.e. setting rules for loan institutions that limit loans associated with foreign currency to non-employment stakeholders. This document has not been new so far, and creditors have not recently offered these loans, and they have therefore not created any special risks. Those who followed a discussion on this subject back then no doubt remember that this provision by the Federal Bank was a sort of security valve that would prevent the re opening of the possibility of foreign loans. I think this adjustment was handled well, but so far foreign loans are not present in the Icelandic financial market, and it is only expected that the zebra would resort to this measures if there was a risk of building up in our system. Back to the way I'm here, the Secret Bank has to do with the subject of the bill. It is important to remember that even if the bill is neutral on whether it is paying foreign loans against Icelandic income or Icelandic loans against foreign revenues, the changes submitted by the bill are primarily due to the problems of those who are moving to the country or those who have one foot in Iceland, e.g. working in the airport or working abroad as experts, with their income in foreign lands. The bill is primarily here to meet the problems they face in Iceland. So they are faced with neither foreign loans, which the banks don't generally offer and are very undesirable, and most of us agree that we don't want to see such loans based on a mortgage market or on a consumer market, or the Icelandic loan because of what I've been doing here. Then it is important to keep in mind that even if the rules are neutral in this regard, the Secret Bank has always been the source of the foreign loans to squeeze them into their care. Among the reasons why creditors do not want to lend loans to foreign currency is that a consumer has one - sided right to convert the loan into a loan that is not linked to a foreign currency. A consumer with income in a currency other than a dollar borrowed from dollars to buy property in the country would thus be permitted to change that loan from loans to other currency to dollars. The same should be true of a student abroad who received a loan in Icelandic dollars; he should be entitled to turn the loan into the currency of the country where he was paid. This may be expected to happen when circumstances for this were generally favorable to the consumer and so the lenders, e.g. see the change in currency if many consumers use the correction at the same time. Because it is a risk that lenders refuse to take, they have not taken this step. This has led to this situation that we're here to describe. As an example of individuals who do not borrow, there are sailors, airline workers, such as I have mentioned before, students, or others who work for their benefit or study, who receive pay from other currency sources other than Icelandic crowns or who need to live abroad. In order to help consumers be offered a loan in Icelandic, U.S.A., even though they have income in a foreign currency or live abroad, there are some proposed changes to their mortgage laws and the consumer loan laws designed to help with such loans. The changes also apply to loans from other currency to the Icelandic dollars, since according to our commitments on the EEA Convention, we should look to the circumstances of the consumer in evaluating the risks of loans and not indiscriminate between currency. The most important change in both laws is that consumers'rights are suggested to change the posts of loans associated with foreign currency, which are not relevant to non- foreign currency, when loans and bets are paid for bail, e.g. In an apartment building, the same currency, such as the Icelandic crowns, is in the same currency. In such cases, consumer currency risks are much smaller than loans and bets of different currency. The variable right of the consumer will continue to apply if there are loans and bets in different currency, such as if you borrow in euros to buy a vehicle in this country with a mortgage on it. Other changes proposed to the consumer loan laws are that of a general balance of payment, 2 million for individuals, and 4 million for couples and partners also apply to loans related to foreign currency instead of in all cases having to perform payoffs on such loans. It is also permitted to provide loans related to foreign currency, despite the negative results of payment, to meet the criteria for borrowing in general despite negative payment, i.e. that further information from an consumer will show that the consumer is likely to receive the loan. In such cases, as with other loans rendered despite the negative results of payment, documented evidence support for decision, explained to consumers, and preserved them for appropriate support. In the processing of the bill, we had a consultation with the Department of Employment and Development, Iceland's Secret Bank, the Neythal Office, and the financial organisation. Forms that the bill was published twice in the government's consultations first, in August 2018, and then this year in February. There were reviews from the International Habits Association, the Organization for Economics, and the Neighbour Services. There was a reason to react to some of the comments through changes in the bill letters. The objective of the changes proposed in the bill on loans related to foreign currency is that creditors will start to offer consumers who live abroad or who earn money in foreign currency loans in Icelandic dollars at a time when appropriate, when appropriate, a special payment on such loans is due. If that is the case, those involved will be able to take on the money you owe and when appropriate make a home. A respectable president. It is not surprising that when it comes to foreign loans, the steps scare. However, the fear of repeating past problems is not to be made to eliminate a particular group of people from being able to borrow from the head. to buy housing. We must also keep in mind that financial status is being monitored systematically, and the cow has legal authority to deal with if loans associated with foreign currency are likely to pose a danger. Remuneration of loans in foreign currency is not forbidden, but such loans can be associated with risks, and it is now assumed that this risk will be reduced in various ways. A respectable president. I suggest that this bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee, after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd. At the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u37	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. 1023, 608. It consists of a bill to correct the animal import law, No. 54/199, about the centres of contaminants and isolation. The bill is written at the Department of Professional Road and Development. Its main purpose is to ensure that a food agency can perform its legal role in preventing serious animal diseases from reaching the country, restricting its spread, and preventing the risk and damage from spreading animal diseases. Thus, with the bill, changes in the arrangements for the isolation of animals, access to imported animals in isolation as well as changes to ensure that the Agency's personnel can seek police help if they are prevented from doing their jobs. First, the bill suggests a change to 2. The law will allow animals to be sent out if they are e.g. Imported without permission, but the current directives state that they are immediately plowed. This will make it clear when the import is complete. Second, the management and isolation centres in Article 7. The law. At that time, the sources of the Food Agency will be clarified in Article 15. Corrected in cases of severe infectious disease, abnormal or unexplained falls, or illogical suspected infectious disease in a convalescent or insulation centre, and the obligation of the operator to comply with the instructions of the Food Agency. As we have considered, the primary objective of this bill is to ensure that a food - control agency can better carry out its legal duties. The effects of the changes proposed by the bill, including to ensure further management of the Agency is expected to contribute. In such cases, when import is prohibited or released, it is strongly felt that moderate care and control of animals may be given the option to send an animal out of the country. The defined product requires changes in the current animal import legislation and therefore this bill is transferred. In particular, it should be noted that these laws are not due to the changes in the order of importation of dogs and cats following a new risk assessment performed by former head animal physician Denmark at the request of the Ministry. On the basis of this, changes in regulations including regulations will be required. to explain terms, shortening the isolation of dogs and cats and the phrase of a specific condition due to the import of help dogs. These changes will take effect soon. If the bill is unchanged in the law, it will not affect the financial resources of the state. A respectable president. I have traced the main subject of this bill to another part of the series, which contains a detailed discussion of the subject of the bill. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-03-68.u38	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis of national initiatives in agriculture. Transporters to this council arrangement have a problem. Councilmen Ágústsson Álfur Águsústsson, Ásmundur Gunnarsson, Ingi Árnason Kristjánnsdóttir, Mnæfjörður Gjörg Þórarinn, Wömlmurfjörnarsson, and Pétursson, Jr. The suggestion reads: The Council concludes to hide the Environment and Resource Minister's Environment and Resource Minister's work to be completed in 2020 by government, farms, land healing, employment, and the public aimed at increasing the share of the public in carbon - healing activities and thereby starting a national effort in land - healing. An article with the Parliament's odor proposal reads: This arrangement suggests that the Environment and Resource Minister will be assigned to establish a field for government, land healing, farmers, employment, and the general public to increase the share of the public's share in carbon exchange by land healing, thus making national efforts for land healing. This price - sharing site will be set before the end of 2020. The aim of the proposal is to increase carbon binding, prevent soil erosion, and heal wasteland through increased involvement of the public in land healing. The model for the construction work of Farmers helped to heal the country, farmers' cooperation and land healing projects that have been operating since 1990 and have proved to be a real experience. With increasing environmental awareness and the education of the public, more and more companies have offered customers an opportunity to balance their business with carbon. Job activities in the project may include offering a carbon balance of land - healing business. Thus, the public's involvement would be dual, one directly involved in land healing, under the guidance of land healing, on the other hand, by the balance of their business. The objective of this Parliamentary proposal is to ensure that the climate of the Treaty of the Government of Jakobsdóttir's daughter Katrín, the climate action program for 2018-2030, as well as the UN's global objectives, no. 13: Climate - related activities. Other international agreements that could be made to meet are the Paris Treaty, the United Nations Convention on Action against desertification, which has been in force in this country since 1996, the International Convention on Biodiversity, validated at the General Assembly in 1994, and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which went into effect here in 1994. Soil is an important resource. It is the foundation of the world's greatest food supply, but soil destruction is one of mankind's greatest threats. The destruction of vegetation and soil has long been a major environmental problem in Iceland. Therefore, the movers suggest that national efforts to achieve land healing have given few countries the opportunity to reduce land use emissions and to promote carbon binding in vegetation and soil.
