ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u1	There have been letters received from the following advisers asking for every appointment to provide written answers to queries. From the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Minister for the Scourge. 904, on the activities of a Merit Research Institute, from Bjarni Jónsson. From the secretary of finance for the petition. 922 on the income of state funds from prescription-based prescription sales, from Sæmundsson. From the health minister for the trim. 965, for a waiting list on Vogi, from the Sigurður, and on a Páll Jónsson. 963 of premature deaths from Sæland Haranda. From the Minister of Justice for a petition on the deck. 961, about the number of police officers on February 1, 2020, from Karl Gauti Hjaltason. Finally from the social and child-relevant minister for the petition. 988 of the special regulations for greenhouses in the building order, from the Halla Signý of Kristjánsdóttir's Daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u2	The President wants to announce that lunch is scheduled from noon. 12 o'clock. 14.15, i.e. that a meeting will resume at the end of the day. 14.15. Then votes can be expected, and after that a discussion begins on the report of the prime minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u3	Consider: Prime Minister, health minister, foreign and development co-work minister, travel, industrial and innovation minister, social and child - care minister and transport and local minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u4	Mr. President. We are dealing with unprecedented situations that require extraordinary cohesion. The president of Europe's Central Bank has said that if the world's governments do not respond radically, we could be heading into a situation similar to 2008. Iceland's government has been moving, but it's still too vague and too weak. We must not wait for reality to somehow come up. Rather, we need to take initiative, boldness, and discouragement. Despite its well-being, the welfare system is much weaker because it has been run right for a few years. We've been starving our health system, we've had the infrastructure down, the equation devices have been weakened. Now, it's time to take action and turn this development around, blow life into small companies, increase green jobs, but most important, we need to strengthen the welfare system so that people, homes in the country, can cope with the down cycle ahead. We need clear answers, tops. Prime Minister. How will we react to increasing unemployment? How will we react to the move to the United States? What measures must we take for the people and for the homes of the land? And how do we expand our business activity? The Company wants to work wholeheartedly on solutions to Iceland's government, but I ask back: Will the government call the government the opposition, the employee movement, the representative of the sector to shape solutions and enforce them in a safe and decisive way? V.E.G. Prime Minister. As a result, we are all now in the same boat, and all of us simply need hands on deck.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Now that the government will come for lunch, we will have a meeting with the presidents of the Board of Governments just to review this situation. Tomorrow we will have a meeting with the labour market partners to review the situation. The plan was to have that meeting today, but due to the frequentness of the night, we decided to postpone it until morning. Clearly, we are faced with trials. They will be temporary. The government will do what it takes to get us out of these terrible things. It's a good place to live. The situation is far different from 2008 when we faced the hardships we faced. We have a powerful currency reserve, a low debt rate, a positive business balance, a much lower debt of homes and employment. The situation is good, and the government introduced the first action this week to support the companies in the country, and it is of course relevant to the people in the country because the companies in this country are no more than the people working there. This government has certainly not weakened the equation. Rather, our efforts have been resulting in more equations, whether in terms of tax change, a huge increase in money into the health system, which really matters now when this epidemic rages, have been reduced in the health - care system's costs, but we now see that countries are facing an almost impregnable threshold to cope with the epidemic. This government has indeed been strengthening the welfare system and its infrastructure, but the situation is that we will need it. The activities we presented on Tuesday were only the first. We will need further workforces, social stability, and, of course, investments to ensure that we get on our feet and that we will. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u6	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear that. The prime minister intends to speak with the government, and we will work wholeheartedly, at least In the Conspiracy. However, we cannot ignore the fact that over a period of years the combination has been getting sick. The road system has been failing since some recent operation. It is important that we continue in that direction to increase the equation in the community because it will be precious to us, not only in this time - to - day crisis, but also the next time we have to deal with such things. We need to be careful in every action and to reduce inequities. But it is clear that this will be difficult for many of the people of the land. It's our job here to do everything we can to protect the people, protect the homes and defend the companies in our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u7	Mr. President. That's what we're doing. A senator agrees. It will matter greatly how politics deal with the problems facing us, and let us not hide the fact that this is not going to be easy. But as I said in a previous reply, we are very effective in coping with the challenges. Since they will be temporary, it is vital that what we do be righteous, sensible, and serve the interests of the whole. How important it is that we make the best use of what we can, and this will be our effort! We also know that we will never agree on everything, but I believe in the United States of Congress that there are people standing here ready to rise above the pressure of the day to deal with this as regards the whole nation. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u8	President. Today's newsletter contains an interview with the Director of the Mothers of the Church of Pétursdóttir, Önnur H.. It shows that for the sake of Covid-19 the decision has been made to discontinue the distribution of food to the clients of Mothers Control Committee. Each week, hundreds of homes rely on food distribution from a Fed Control Committee, where they just can't afford to buy food. The assistance has now ceased, and the same report shows that there is no discussion in the Almanavers'response programs about people who live in so poverty that they cannot provide for themselves. The present epidemic will cause one of the worst victims of low or unstable income. I've missed in recent days hearing Prime Minister discussing how her government will ensure that Covid-19 will not have a serious impact on those who live in poverty in society, which is one of the most vulnerable groups in society. We've just heard of it through the show "Abject poverty" in Iceland where there's a frightening figure about a lot of people living in poverty here. President. My questions today are simple. Who guarantees those who cannot afford it when such activities as the Fed Control Committee are lost because of the risk of transmission? Who will make sure that the people of the land who are under siege or insulation have food? Where do the homeless go for isolation, and who is responsible for monitoring their health?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the inquiry, which is actually about two things, one in general, about the position of poor people in the community, especially in times of distress today. It is clear that governments must aim to ensure social justice just as they have so far. Let us not forget the measures taken by the government last year in connection with biographies, all aimed at increasing social stability by improving social housing, changing the tax system, increasing child - welfare. In other words, increasing social stability because economic stability cannot occur without the social. It is very important that governments, as mentioned earlier, make up market operations, and so on, have this guide. For the question of the why. I believe a senator on the Fed Control Committee to the highest level. The social and child - care minister, who is in charge of government relations with this self-opposed organization, such as those involved in such assistance, will review with them how they can ensure that the Alternian Response Plans will also cover that operation. I think there's something that can be solved, and I expect the highest. Minister of Social Affairs will take what has been presented here today and will follow it immediately today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u10	Madam President. I thank you for the answers and hope that there will be measures to ensure that this most sensitive group of people in the community does not have to suffer for these actions and that we will protect these people. Today, however, we also face a cold economic climate that could even lead to a crisis. As we know well in Iceland, economic hardships can have a major impact on the health system. After the last economic collapse, the system had to endure long - term cuts that had long - term consequences. We are now dealing with one of the most serious epidemics in memory of a country that affects health systems that have been underdeveloped for far too long, as well as with the ideal and working conditions of the health - care professions. Covid-19 should be a clear reminder to us not to allow the next economic decline to produce such an effect. So I ask, how's the government doing? Prime Ministers to make sure that this economic depression does not have a negative impact on the health system? Will she continue the repair work now done in the medical system and ensure that we will be equipped to cope with the consequences of this epidemic and the next?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u11	Mr. President. I think it's right for us to come out here, because of that. The senator asked specifically after who was present to monitor the health of those under a contagion, so that health care has a list of all those who are infected and who are keeping an eye on their health.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u12	I asked about the homeless.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u13	Yeah, I understood why. A senator would be asking for a follow-up of the health of those under the district, which is now being answered. The health system. We certainly have been giving in there. The last Monday morning was a pleasant report that had been signed under collective agreements involving huge changes in the shift work program, which is most important to the professions operating within the medical system. I hope that other contracts will be completed on the same page. This is the greatest change in this arrangement for decades, and it has been related to what we have so often discussed in these halls, which are the best health - care groups, especially women's groups, those who work within a shift plan. This is a big step in progress, not to interfere with the fact that when we look at the structure of the health system, we need to watch everything, not just investments in concrete, but to man's system with good people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u14	A respectable president. It's really changed, what was pretty manageable last night has become pretty difficult and kind of more than that. Then, of course, there was some difficult news and weird things we got from the United States this morning, where the country is closed and grounded for 30 days without telling friends like Iceland about that decision. It is at times like this, a respectable president, who we must stick together, and even though I criticize that the information supply was not necessarily any particular information, especially toward the government opposition, I especially rejoice at the climax. The prime minister has been preaching to the chairman's meeting in the afternoon. It is important that we political leaders unite, that we not only raise fears, that we work together for the benefit of the nation, and that we also try to connect more with the job, not only to professionals, but also to the employee movement. Now, it is important to communicate information and increase transparency. We need to watch our people. We need to be clear and have clear answers, information for the homes of the country, for the small companies, for the big companies, for the community everything, so we can get through this. This is what we need to fit, and that's why I have hopes for the conversation and cooperation. I declare that restoration is sincere enough to support and help us get through this storm well. But there is also a question, and that may be the big question: Then what community are we looking out for to be here after the storm is over in three months? It has rarely been so important that we calm in the same direction, that we do not calm down toward isolationism, not to panic, not where democratic devices will be abused for economic sake. We need to be careful that economic allowances and also that democracy is preserved and cared for. [[The president calls.]] This turns to calmness toward solidarity, the public health of citizens, and the security of the city, and especially the freedom of society. I'd like to ask the highest. Whether she fears the threat of fear in connection with the larger issues that the government and all of us face.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u15	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, who introduced much in his inquiry. First, I'd like to say that because of the decision made by the President of the United States that last night he presented for a travel ban to the well - held European countries outside Britain and Ireland, the Icelandic government has made protests against the U.S. government. V.E.G. The secretary of state and development immediately contacted the U.S. ambassador, who is not in the United States, and followed by his replacement, and has likewise requested a meeting at ease. A foreign press committee on the first occasion to discuss the situation. This emphasizes the need we believe that the Council is as enlightened as possible and is in place when such events occur. I'd like to say, then, because of what. A senator mentioned the situation that has certainly changed from day to day, that the news of the night puts everything in perspective, and it will matter that we react, but we have what we need. Me and the Icelanders have had some experience. There are some of us here in 2008, and I'm going to say that it can help us at such times. We know what we did wrong and what we did right and, fortunately, we did so much more right than wrong. That's why Iceland's been very successful in the last few years. It is a temporary catastrophe that is, of course, unprecedented, but do not forget that other nations face exactly the same situation that we do. I believe that our experience and perseverance as well as the ability to stand together when problems arise will make it impossible for this to have no lasting effect but, as I repeated earlier that we were standing up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u16	Mr. President. Now with experience, it is good and important if a person tries to learn from it. I'll agree with the highest. Prime Minister, in connection with the collapse, people had to stick together. Many decisions were good, but many were also inferior. What matters most is that there will be no dancing in political opportunism, that the government and government stand together, and that, as I say, they will not, they will be able to make sense of the power and energy we're going out of this with the devices and tools we're going through solidarity and harmony, that we're working to use the energy and energy that we're in Icelandic society. This will be done, not by sailing from democratic decisions and democratic devices so important to us, but by using the power and power of the democracy, the deity of democracy. I've criticized the government for some kind of information and not giving clear answers. I didn't like the press conference the other day, because the companies are still in limbo about how they're going to react. Let's do this together, we'll go over it together, we'll give you a clear answer. [[The president calls.]] I strongly encourage the government in this regard, and I would also like to commend her for having answered the Americans properly. V.E.G. Secretary of state, well done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u17	Mr. President. Hv. A senator mentioned political opportunism. I think we'll always see some political opportunism in this situation, but less, the better. The less, the better. Of course, this is important because of reason. A senator speaks of democracy, and we are a democracies community. The General will surely have to handle this and the actions that the government presented this week to support the companies of the country and hence the people of the country, for the industry is nothing but the people of the country, of course, will enter a council where they will be implemented. They will be taken up on the right level, at which point they will be held. A financial and business committee, and then the council will give the opportunity to review this democratic nature of the case, and I'd like to say after spending some time at the General Assembly that it doesn't matter where it comes from. All of us should listen to fine ideas that may come up in our activities at General Assembly, but we must also be aware that what will happen in the near future will need to make decisions from day to day, as we saw here this morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u18	A respectable president. Now that the Covid-19 virus is headed to the highest altitudes, the food distribution is closing by the Dys resterium Committee and it is uncertain when Iceland's Family Help will have its share. In this distribution, the people in our society, who have the worst trust. To our shame, a large number of people need to rely on food distribution from nearly the first day of the month. What are they going to do for these people and for those who are so sick at home that they cannot take the miserable walk of seeking help in order to pray for food? Who have sick people, cripples, seniors, and low-payers who have no food and cannot feed themselves? Is there a phone number for that? Is there an e - mail address for it? We know that not long ago in normal condition, an older citizen was released from a hospital and sent back to his home, and all that was available in the refrigerator was the malt flab and the cyborg bottle. Is it now that someone will be home, and there won't even be a malt bottle or a light bottle in the fridge? What's going to happen? Minister to do? How will he react? Then, too, it would be nice to know, because new contracts have now been made for the lowest paying people, $112,000. increase: Will she go to an older citizen and invalid at the same time or will she be used as has always been, some index trick to make sure that people don't get it? This was made clear in the figure I was affected by the fact that out of every three cents spent on the disability and older citizens, two are taken back in the decline year later. Then the government and its sanctuaries come from raising three cents, but it only raised a dollar and it didn't even raise the insurance policy. Are we gonna change this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u19	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Guðguund of Ingi Kristinsson for the inquiry and, as the prime minister entered his answer earlier to another inquiry, that this is one of the tasks we are now carrying on the table, along with a number of others subject to the impact that Covid-19 will have on Iceland's community, i.e. how we react. It's starting to take place, and I hope we can publish something very quickly. The same is true of other operations that we are doing within the Ministry, e.g. on labour market resources, etc. We'll get a bill into the council, hopefully by the end of this week, on the pay under siege. There are measures to make up for the unemployment of those who need employment to cooperate with the employment agency. We're trying to win all of this as fast as possible. Of course, we rely on a good partnership with a council and a health committee in case there are any legal adjustments or issues involved in the council. Like I say, this is one of the issues we're working on right now. We know the importance of the work of a Fed Control Committee, the Red Cross, and other sources. I thank the senator for his insistence and seek his cooperation and support for him and his members, the welfare committee and the council for all that lies ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u20	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers give answers because these are his clients. He's a social minister, and he's a paediatric minister. There are children in the community who don't have food, and there are children out there who worry, parents worry about their children, and children worry about what the future will be like. However, there is also a group of outdoor people who need help. We just have to get an answer now. We're supposed to get into that there are people who can look for something. There may be a phone call or a email address asking for help. We have to do this right away. We're supposed to make sure the people get all the help they need. These are the weakest people. Under these are sick people, very sick people, suffering from underlying diseases, and terrified. They do not know how or where to seek help because the distribution routes have been closed. We need to find a way to make a package, a food package that has been pointed out to these people and get them to do so right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u21	A respectable president. I just agree with what. A senator and there is a work to be done. This week we have made a great deal of contact with the European Union because part of what the Senator mentions is, of course, on the hands of the local community and we have been discussing how countries and rural communities need to come together in particular as a member of the community. The fact is, much of that service is on their hands, and although social Affairs and this government determined what is involved, the rural communities have other things. There, too, conversation and action have had to be made to coordinate the way in which rural society operates. But, as I say, we're running in this and we'll keep doing it, and news is that to be expected within not so long.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u22	A respectable president. When discussing, the actions that must be taken in connection with the crown and all that follow are the amazing position that comes up after the news of the day from the United States, and with the government's foreman in mind, the highest. Prime Minister, we must remind you that there are three measures that the government needs to take and control now. First, it is the storm that was at the beginning of December. There, the government has gone well to the earth in the way it was done. Then there are the measures involved in this coronus now and the government appeared this week and introduced the first action. Then there is a third pack of measures that includes measures due to the general cooling of the economy that have been observed since the late part of the last year to be absolutely necessary. I now state a lot of concern over the fact that the government's announcement is now being made from the conference at the Ministerial Assembly on March 10 that it appears that this team will be extended to some that, by permission of Presidents, in the press release on the government budget: The plan should not be changed before April 1, but the aim is to put it forward in mid - May It was initially announced that there would be lines for the injection, and in this context it is necessary to push the government, to speed this up, whether by means of supplementary funds or by any means necessary. You can't wait until the start of the summer with this. Then, for example, they are contractors and companies, Istavia, Vega, just missed the window. I want to ask you something. The other point is the seventh item of the presentation at the Ministerial Relations, which tells us that the local IL Fund will be moved by bank depositors to support bank space. Wasn't supposed to happen anyway. Prime Minister? Now, it is important that the market and the job life feel that the actions that are being introduced really weigh. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Bergþór tiri Ólason query. First of all, I can make you happy. A senator by making investment plan or government plans will not be waiting for us to implement a financial plan. On the other hand, I think we're gonna do what. A senator agrees that as the situation is today in the world's economy, there is no point in implementing financial plans until the next five years. We need to get a better grasp of the situation before it is submitted, but we expect that we will be able to put in place an investment plan that can start immediately this year. It is very important to deal with both the anticipated cooling of the economy, as well as the additional school that may be caused by the epidemic and the subsequent events of the economy. I refer to the frequent times of the night. It is very important that we react immediately this year, so I expect the investment plan to be introduced separately during this month. Of course, it will also be discussed at the General Assembly, for, as I said earlier, it is important what the senators have to say on these matters. No matter where good comes from, it is important that this will be done in a greater solidarity in the council, and that will be done by specific measures. In terms of the introduction to the IL Fund, which has been inside the Sensian Bank, no decision had been made to enter the business banks, although with the possibility that they had been separated from other factors, when the Housing Agency was set up. However, this was mentioned as one possibility. The decision has now been made to do so. The plan is to strengthen the bank's financial position so that they can provide extra money for companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u24	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the answers to the strategy. It is important that you do this now in the month. The answer to the IL fund is quite surprising to me, that the decision was not that the funds could not remain in the Secret Bank, because in the bill Minister of Financial Affairs, 381. Since April 1, 2020, it has been reported that the fund does not have the authority to maintain business accounts from the bank. April 1st, 2020 is only in less than three weeks. Was the government going to stick this money under the pillow? I think this is part of what the job life and the financial system calls for when it feels firm and effective and that the action is real reaction, not information about things that are in one way or another in the process.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u25	Mr. President. There is, of course, no secret, as revealed in my previous answer, that with the establishment of the Homie-Manic Institute and the separation of IL's letter, this was not going to remain in the Secret Bank for a long time. But the decision to place this on business banks is new in this context. There could have been other means, perhaps looking to make up a bank or something like that. The decision is that all the banks can have a cash slot to provide financial support for companies. I believe all of this was worked in a very open and transparent way because of what happened. A senator calls for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u26	Mr. President. In view of the fact that the matter went to the General and Education Committee between discussions and that here in the Senate, a question was raised as to whether it was binding the government's hands too and restricting their freedom of expression if they witnessed any conflict in their activities was given the Commission opinion that the bill for protecting the informants was found that the law of the P.I., whether by law, law, law, or change, according to the same procedure. 914, do not prevent them from sharing data and information according to the regulations of the bill. Information or data to meet criteria 2 or 3. Doesn't constitute a violation of silence or confidentiality bound by law or in any other way. The objective of a bill on a silent personal guardian on the deck. 914 is only to ensure that the obligation to represent a personal protective representative, whether they work in a public market or in a public labour market. It cannot change the collapse of both groups of silences if information or data were to be provided in accordance with the source protection bill. The Ministry of Presidency thus considers, and as a result of a discussion on the topic of the committee, both of these matters work together well. I just wanted to explain this because there was a request for answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u27	Mr. President. I recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, as well as the changes to the bill for changing the law on various fiscal and tax expenditures. As mentioned in the Committee, the Commission was contacted by members of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, Marel, KPMG, the Committee for Financial Services, Delotte, the Association of Industrial Affairs, and the Association of Travellers. The bill suggests some changes in tax laws related to both taxation laws and individuals. The objective of the bill is also ... todiscriminate a legal problem and to explain tax-relevant legislation. Other aspects of the bill's content and objective are referred to in a series of articles. With a 14th and a 15. The bill is suggested that local pay-offs of non-employment parties in this country be removed from the US stock market and the stock market. Government funds are small, but they do cause the relevant problems because of doing business with the Icelandic stock. The Commission's review of financial organisations to the Committee shows that stocks can be sold on a global market must be implemented by an international financial agency. Two such companies, Clearstream and Eurocles, are responsible for this market in Europe. With the proposed changes, these enterprises will continue to be obliged to provide information on trades with the Icelandic shares to the head of the tax, but they have concluded that foreign intermediate organisations have refused to stake Icelandic shares for financial enterprises where they feel they cannot meet the conditions for information and reporting on the market. The Ministry's memo to the Committee shows that the Ministry considers that the information between clients can provide in accordance with the requirements of information provided by the tax takes place the change proposed in the bill. The majority of the accounts show that this definition of the Ministry is correct and shows the importance of explaining the importance of any information being involved in a Icelandic trade has to be submitted to the government tax manager. Encouraged by the Ministry and the IRS, as we are now calling the head of the state to keep in mind that the requirements in this respect do not weigh more than the relevant ones necessary. In Figure 8 1. Section 3. income tax laws show the principle that income taxes of interest should be paid on the land of bank accounts, stocks and investments, bonds or other requirements and financial gains. Exceptions from the tax obligations are presented in 2◯3. hereinate the machet including the interest rates from government bonds and bonds published in their own name by financial companies or by energy companies are free of tax laws under closer conditions. The Commission's review suggested that there may be a reason to eliminate tax contributions so that they would generally cover a registered market bond. The tax duty was set up with Article 6. Laws on State Opportunities, No. 70/2009, appointed to face the massive drop of income and the budgets that have been paid for the economic collapse and the great debt they leave behind, as shown in the report of the bill that became their law. The majority believe that there is a reason to reevaluate the tax responsibilities, i.e. the decision to cancel or whether it is wise to make changes in other ways, such as by reviewing its release. Such work requires a comprehensive assessment of the effects of the changes to be made and encourages more of the items to be conducted in the Ministry prior to the collection of the bill. In contrast, the majority suggest that a change in the bill considered here should be made so that the local payment of written bonds will fall out in the same manner as suggested by Article 14 and Article 15. for the change of the seventh part of the law, as you will see later. To Figure 6 of Unit A 1.mg. 30. g. The regulations on income taxes require that foreign experts be allowed to apply for excerpts from their taxable revenues in this country during the first three years of employment recruitment to specific criteria met. One of these conditions is that a foreign expert may not have lived or lived in a country for five years before he entered the country's home. The bill suggests that instead of considering five years ahead of the year when the person starts working 60 months before the start of the work in this country, there is an estimated number of pneumonias or householdlocks in the three months of that period to be started. The plan is that an expert will give up up to three months to move to the country and prepare his work for work without compromising his rights. With a section four. The bill is suggested that a new paragraph be added to 49th par. income taxation laws that set the time limit for the terms of interest rates and selections are considered acceptable. The report of the Tatar to the Committee includes It should be noted that the expression "discovered " is not clear enough and that there is a better way to define the conditions involved. The majority agree with this tax proposal and suggest that the terms of the decree be referred to 1 mg. 1st over 31. income taxation. As stated earlier, the bill suggested that local pay be put out of the Icelandic stock market and stock bonds and that the commission be given the indication that there may be a similar change in taxation of interest from written bonds. The Committee concluded that the loss of the market due to interest on written bonds could be of great importance to the success of the stock market of Icelandic enterprises, which did not fall under the exception of tax-free interest revenues, such as the government stock version, financial and energy companies. It would have been burdensome to pay taxes, such as in connection with duty to keep posts, in some cases made foreign mediators reject governments by such letters. In this respect, the more part contributes to the removal of the product in order to maintain the standard pay of interest on written bonds. The reviews to the Committee pointed out that along with the change in the laws on the local payment of public pay proposed by chapters 14 and 15. The bill would be a reason to make changes in the laws on the local tax payment on capital income. KPMG pointed out that with the same argument as we had of evasion of local property, there could be a review of local payment due to interest between national partners with limited responsibility to shareholders. A exchange between such partners would not be a permanent taxation, as income tax laws required the recipient's authority to reduce them from income tax stocks. In spite of this, the payer would be obliged to keep in order to pay for his money and return it to a government fund. In fact, the deduction duty would result in disaster for both the receiver and the recipient, as well as the government's funds would not make money from the pay paid standards. A review of Marel's comments to the Committee includes: modeling a change in the law of local tax pay on capital gains in order to provide behind reimbursement for stocks recorded electronically at the stock market, will be moved from stock markets to financial companies. The review points out that the current budget can easily be solved by delivering the required financial pay, but such arrangements are widely used abroad. Business companies are involved with shareholders, so they can obtain information about their tax status in a simpler way than do publishers, i.e. the partner itself. In addition, financial companies have knowledge and have systems to handle tax pay rapidly and safely, end up already doing their calculations and their return on interest taxes. This proposal also supports the financial organisation, as is shown by their comments to the Committee. Then the Ministry and the IRS don't comment on the proposal. The majority of the indications listed above are valid. Gives the more part to add to the bill a chapter about changing the law on paying taxes on capital incomes that will require the obligation of the partners who fall to Article 1. income tax laws to keep in place, and to give their local pay as well as due local cash pay from electronic stocks transfer from a publisher to a domestic financial company that has their stocks. 23rd degree. The bill is presented with a change to 25. the legislation on the value tax, the decision of the cost tax, the study and the management of the government taxpayer on the merit tax returns, etc. P-E-T-T-T. The bill is suggested to postpone the national tax management to provide an extension of the infusion report from 21 days to 30 days. The report on the bill says that the delay was extended from 15 days to 21 days in 2010, with a significant increase in the introduction of the reports from the value of valuable tax laws. It is reported that the reports have not increased to a degree since that change went into effect, but there are often more complex issues of opinion. It is noted in the review that the deadline to extend the length of time will only return to allow the head of the state to decide whether the report should be considered further or not. In those cases that are not considered to be a reason for further consideration of a report, the report is completed. When further thought is warranted, the deadline is breached by consultation to pay taxes. Then, the national taxpayer would be obliged to investigate all the internal reports, reducing the scope of this aspect of his surveillance work, and therefore there would be reason to extend the deadline. In view of the above, the larger part does not consider to be a reason to extend the specified extension and suggest that the 23rd paragraph be submitted. The bill will be removed. With 13th, 18th and 24th. The bill is suggested that temporary measures be added to income tax laws, public payment laws and the credit laws. The decision is intended to respond temporarily to the European Court of Human Rights, which has failed in recent years and with regard to whether the treatment of tax fractures in this country is in opposition to the European Convention on a 2-fold penalty. In accordance with the preliminary guidelines, stress under more precise measures should not be applied from January 1, 2020 to July 1, 2020, if the case of taxpayers has been referred to punishment. A financial and economic memo to the Committee suggests that the period will be extended to 31 December 2020, with the objective of providing a bill there at the Fall Council of 2020. A greater proportion contributes to a change in the provisional measures so that their content covers the entire year 2020. With XVIII. section No. 135/2019, which took effect January 1st, was a requirement to add a tax on fluorinated greenhouse gases (F-gas) to their import into the Member States' legislation on environmental and resource taxes, No. 129/2009. During the legal treatment of the bill, the Committee received a letter from the Industrial Association that made comments that no reimbursement was allowed in the case of reimbursement sold to the export of fluorinated greenhouse gases, e.g. as part of a system or device produced on land. A report by the above bill shows that taxation aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions so that governments can meet their commitments in climate change and meet the goals for noncarbonization in 2040. In addition, green taxes are stated to be based on the pollution reform policy, which includes that the person causing pollution pays the cost that results. The majority of them consider valid reasons to recommend the views listed in the above issue of the Industrial Association that authority to reimburse the tax should be given in certain cases. Thus, the majority suggest that at the bill, a section on the change in environmental and resource taxes suggest that the legislation be added to the Member State's Member State's provision for reimbursement of the tax for F-gas import when transporting the donated product effectively from the country. With this, of course, we are adapting the competitive position of the company or the manufacturer. With law No. 117/2018 extensive changes were made in the implementation of the product charge on a moving vehicle to the country. The changes were attributed to changes in automobile emissions, as was further attributed to the bill intended to respond to the changes made in the registered emissions of new cars, since the change in the methodology of this methodology would not be intended to increase the stress of the product tax and thus the income of the budget. The Group of Tourists has pointed out that the change in emissions methodology has led to unforeseen consequences for RVs. Their emissions were not approximately 20% higher by the new method than the old one, but they multiplied. This likely resulted in a peak taxation rate of 65% according to the 2nd issue of 1. Section 3. turned the product of vehicles, fuel, etc. The difference between consumer sales prices could run for millions of dollars on account of this, depending on whether the emissions of that car were recorded according to the old or new methodology. This would likely lead to the better looking for older vehicles who had registered emissions according to the old method. Older vehicles were generally less insecure and were, in fact, more contaminated by the less documented emissions. Clearly, this situation would need to be dealt with by means of law. The majority agree with the direction of the travel agency, making it clear that the legislature's plan was not that RVs were subject to large increases in products as well as the recording of new international standards for the disposal of vehicles. The majority believe that this situation requires a more permanent solution but suggests that the product law will add temporary measures with temporary release. The regulations stipulate that if I can read it correctly, the stress paid on an RV should be reduced 40%, although it does not reduce below 150 g/km. The requirement for reducing the exported vehicle as a driver's vehicle, to fall into the category of vehicles or automobiles according to traffic regulations and to the regulations supported by traffic regulations, and to the point that the vehicle is considered to be a port in the sense of population 2. Tax layers if there was no structure for dwelling, and I hope all members of the council understand this. Sets the extra item to add a new article to VII. section of the bill for this purpose. Other forms of change other than those described above are technical and amendment, not intended to have material influence. According to the above, the greater part contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes proposed to a special Senate document. Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson was absent from the case, but he signed this opinion in accordance with 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Those who sign are considered valid. The men of the assembly who stand here, Óli the Björn of Kárason, Brimes the Brynjar of Níelsson, Birgir the son of the Ármannsson, and Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Shabbur the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u28	A respectable president. I recommend a Senate resolution of moral values and priorities for health care. Health policy must rest on a solid moral foundation, and reconciliation must be made with the values to provide guidance for the target. As the United States of Congress knows, the last legislation of health policy was adopted to 2030. In order to achieve the main objective of the policy, which is that the public in Iceland enjoy a safe and efficient health care in which all citizens are assured, it is absolutely clear that financial and other means of health care are needed. At the same time as agreed health policy, a decision was made to implement the policy would be made on a five-year basis. Such programs would be updated annually during the course of health care. With agreed medical policy to 2030, the Allied Council decided on the following objective: a state of moral principles that lay the basis for priorities and decisions in the health system and a constant discussion of moral guidance. Following the approval of a health policy, a five-year schedule of action was decided to achieve this objective within three years. The proposal for interpretation as recommended here is part of achieving this goal. It also helps to create a discussion of moral values when it comes to priorities. The moral values suggested by the Council to conclude that it is guided by Icelandic health services are aimed at agreeing to a state of agreement and setting priorities in good order. Values are, first of all, human immunity, second of all, need and solidarity, and third, efficiency and efficiency. - Honorable President. It is not by chance that I mention the values in this order because they are mentioned in a row following the importance. Publicity includes important moral values and is a fundamental value that goes beyond other values. Thus, it is fundamental for other values to come. Many of the things involved are people's means of space over which each person has an uncircumcised right, stressing respect for each individual's human dignity under any possible circumstances. Furthermore, the term means that all humans are equal and have the same right to preserve and maintain health care and that they recognize and recognize general rights. It refers to the interests of those that are essential to the basic rights of individuals, the rights that are most sacred to man. The value includes access to health care and other protection of life, and the maintenance of health care should include the basic rights of individuals with the limitations of health care. The next order is need and solidarity, but there is general agreement that those who have the greatest need for health care at any given time should take priority and that it is important to be careful about the rights of those who are in a sensitive position, no matter what the reasons for doing so, and may not be able to seek their own rights or protect them. Finally, it is the value of practicality and effectiveness which should be guided by priorities in health care. It is a matter of justice for all in the community that health care is targeted, effective, and as practical as possible. In this light it is important that health institutions constantly improve and become the front order for new and critical technologies to be introduced. We need to make more use of the technology that exists, e.g. distant health services and other electronic solutions always look to new technologies. It is important that the above measures be based on the measures taken by the health care provider. When it comes to the future, it is urgent that health institutions make sure that employees receive instruction and time to adopt the moral values that I have studied. Furthermore, there is a need for organized discussions about values and priorities in health care at all national health institutions and governments. Finally, it is suggested that the health - care minister be assigned to appoint a multidisciplinary and spirit - appointed body of the National Committee on Priorities in Health Care. Name them as stewards, and they may include. published a guide's opinion of priorities according to this synonym. A respectable president. I have explained the baseline values considered to be most relevant to the community in Icelandic health care, baseline values based on discussions and consultations held in November 2018 and in a lab held in October of the same year. The proposal for this discussion is therefore based on a broad and broad framework of priorities and decision-making at all levels of health care. A respectable president. I assume that the proposal will end with the previous discussion referred to the question. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u29	Mr. President. It's like the highest. The president knows I'm not supposed to go up against a senator or a secretary of the same party. I'll bring it up here to nod a few things. First of all, I give my proposal a special welcome. Here is a very important step that has not been taken for Icelandic health care in this way, and it is of utmost importance. I was so fortunate to be allowed to participate in the workshop during October. And again at the church, over a month or so, where there was much speaking in these words. It's very nice to see how the Ministry is doing. A health minister has taken up the ideas and work there and made this document. I'm not going to list it any further, but I'm thinking that in this section, thinking on the future, we could add one factor to that which is talking about moral values, that while taking them into the education and discussions inside institutions is very important that we find ways to factor this further into health professions and ensure that when they arrive at the scene, they have been placed at the bottom of the equipment they need to participate in such discussions and based on their work within the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u30	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to fix a medical device. The current medical legislation is from 2001 and has not changed significantly since that time, despite the rapid development of technology. Medical devices vary from patches and contact lenses to sophisticated hospital equipment. The bill is composed at the Ministry of Health, including the implementation of two regulations, from Article 5 of the European Parliament and the Council of 2017/745 of 5 April 2017, on the medical devices, and on the basis of the European Parliament and Council 2017/746 of 5 April 2017, on the basis of a physician diagnosis in a bottle. The rules went into effect in Europe on May 25, 2017. The medical protocol is implemented on May 26, 2020, and the field of diagnostic medicinal measures in a bottle will be carried out on May 26, 2022. Therefore, the implementation of the regulations must be completed in this country prior to the validation date of the Regulation on the medical device on May 26, 2020. A respectable president. The objective of the bill is to ensure the quality and safety of the medical equipment with public safety and to ensure that production, maintenance and use of medical equipment is in accordance with the best knowledge at any given time. The agreed bill would make a new global law for medical equipment. The bill is very rich and includes improved and clearer medical instruments and better monitoring in this important language class. With the bill, the European Commission is introduced but at the same time the Agency's surveillance and authority sources are explained and established. Europe's protocols are aimed at harmonising legislation in the European Economic Area and ensuring compliance with the rules of therapeutic practice. As a consequence of the EEA partnership, the regulations in the EEA Convention must be agreed. There is not much room to deviate from the requirements of the European Orders, and this is primarily due to the implementation of responsibilities and requirements on the basis of the regulations of the Regulation. However, there is room for European rules to set specific rules or to implement the individual regulations of the Regulation. The bill therefore contains the key principles of the Regulation, together with specialist regulations, which make up a new overall set of laws for medical equipment. A respectable president. In view of experience and learning from the value of European instruments, increasing the requirements and quality and safety of medical equipment are set up in the bill for improving the safety of users of medical equipment. The European rules intended to introduce the principles of the rules are extended, but the bill clearly indicates that they are involved not only in medical purposes but also in non-medical instruments. Under the bill, you will now find a device without intended purposes of the kind that have specific characteristics as medical tools but are not marketed as such. These include contact lenses and filling materials for the injection into the face. Increased requirements for therapeutic equipment are set for monitoring and follow-up with commercial therapeutic equipment. Changes in the application procedure for clinical trials and increased requirements for clinical laboratory testing, including data quality and access to data are also being performed. There is an increased demand for advising procedure for the informed person. There is some change from the existing rules and is intended to improve the quality of the procedure. The European Data Bank on Medicine is more important in the Regulation to introduce, but it plays a key role in meeting the objectives of this legislation. A specific authentication system has been established in this context in order to ensure the traceability of the medical device provided by the manufacturer. It's even has been used to prevent counterfeit devices, as well as to ensure the traceability of an device and to ensure rapid and reliable internalization of damaged devices. The manufacturer is obliged to develop a so-called implant card with implantable tools. The implant card is provided with a health care facility responsible to provide the patient with the card. Detailed information should be available to the patient, such as information provided by means of a reliable device, warnings, information on the shelf life, follow-up, etc. A respectable president. As stated earlier, the bill introduced by the European Commission Regulations on these matters and therefore primarily concerning requirements and responsibilities which are supported by the Regulation, however measuring and allowing the implementation of certain factors. This has to do with language requirements, e.g. the instructions for use and the label of the medical equipment. The European Medicines Agency is authorised in accordance with the regulations and monitoring of the activities of the regulations and the National Competent Authority. The European Regulations as the bill this is aimed at enforcing countries to determine inland law whether recycling of single-use medical equipment is permitted, but the bill suggests that the Minister will implement the regulation on recycling and further use of disposable equipment, and this is the principle that is actually in place from here. The European Regulations do not prevent increased medical requirements provided this is in accordance with the Regulation. The bill therefore contains regulations that are not modeled in the Regulation but are considered necessary to achieve the objective of the quality and safety of the equipment, the public safety and the patients with safety concerns, and measures intended to ensure that production, maintenance and use of medical equipment are in accordance with the best knowledge at any given time. The bill contains a provision for the responsibility of the owner of a medical instrument to ensure that the user will receive instruction and training for right and safe use. The responsibility of the owner of the device is also laid down to conduct regular quality and security monitoring and maintenance. To make sure that the safety of the user and patients is put in the bill that a minister is allowed to set a regulation that requires that only healthcare professionals with a particular education and experience are allowed to use certain devices. In this Regulation the obligation of the operator is to keep an electronic record of the implantable medical devices provided to the patient or to give to another person or to the source. In view of the experience in the practice of the earlier medical legislation, it was decided to place them in medical institutions and healthcare professionals to include information on the individual patient receiving a transplant, e.g. information about names, social names, or other identity names. This experience points to a so-called pipp-chest pad case. The bill also provides clear permission for the Agency to access or receive information from the registry. A respectable president. The bill was prepared with the National Competent Authority. Then the bill was published by government consultations and agreed on on on January 10, 2020. The main institutions and stakeholders were informed that the bill and on December 23, published by the Ministry of Health on the Office's Homepage. A total of five comments were received that were considered, and the changes in the bill were made accordingly, as shown in the bill report. The evaluation of government funds has been performed and if unchanged that law is expected to affect the spending side of state funds at the discretion of a specialist in the Institute of Medicine, but in the bill there are new legal rights and it is assumed that the additional revenues of the Agency will be below the cost of status. A respectable president. I've explained the basics of the bill. So, allow me to suggest that the bill be at the end of the 1st. Pointed to why. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u31	A respectable president. I hereby present an opinion of changing proposals from the employment board for a proposal for a synonym over the development of cluster policy. The committee has discussed the matter and has brought many visitors to their home. There's been a review from five sources. The proposal made several times earlier is directed to the General Assembly to appoint a group of workers who are assigned to shape public cluster policy. The policies include an arrangement on how the public network of employment at national level cooperates with industry, research and education institutions, rural communities and other relevant stakeholders. The committee discussed the matter with a firm support. It was noted that the number of businesses in this country has increased and that a number of companies have been formed directly linked to their activities. Strategies are designed to promote the innovation and competitiveness of companies in this country and to increase their cooperation with research institutions and universities. At that time, a cluster policy could better shape a framework of research and analysis in this country and measure its results. The Commission agrees with these views and points out that other states of the north, including Denmark and Norway, have successfully developed a public cluster policy. It is important to look to them in the modeling of the policy. Then the Commission points out that in the innovation policy for Iceland, the New World of Iceland, introduced in the fall of 2019 by the traveling, industrial, and innovation as the key to solving the largest business in the coming decades. Among the policy targets, the government has to make sure that support is targeted and that Iceland will not be reduced again from other areas. A review of the case at 149 C.E. pointed out that it was possible that clusterism would become part of a modern policy for the country. Although modern innovationism exists and does not specifically comment on clusters, the committee feels that they are an important tool for achieving its target. Thus, the committee insists that the development of cluster policy will be guided by a new creation policy. Finally, the commission points out that the government will submit a report to the General with results of the staff at the end of May 2020. In view of the fact that the Ministry of prosecuting and innovation is involved in the affairs of employment development, technical research and innovation, it is proposed that there will be a change in the granting of temporary, industrial, and innovation to the General Report any later. Then the committee proposes that the work force be given more time to submit its results, and it also suggests a change in its content. With reference to the above, the Commission suggests that the proposal will be adopted by the conversion that travel, industrial and innovation ministers will submit a report to the General with results of a team for February 1, 2021. Under the heading, write why. Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Friðbertsson Signor Trausti, Elíasdóttir Friidífjörður Elisssson, Friðriksson Friðsson, Jón Þór Ísleifsson Jónsson. Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfóttir was away at the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u32	Mr. President. I agree with this fine proposal that has come out. 1st Transporter is slow. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson and this case were held on a professional committee last year, and now it is entering a Senate Hall. I hope there's a good reception, and it'll be clear from here, because it's urgent and needs a case and it's supporting the innovation policy currently in progress to 2030 on the part of the government. We know that all innovation is the basis for advancement in the land, and it is vital that we build on the human mind and knowledge that we have, and use it far and wide over the country to strengthen the existing innovations and to establish them in ways that are different from what we already have. When you look at the shape of a cluster policy like this council resolution, it goes out, that there is a cluster policy designed here, and a group appointed to do so. We know that there are, though, some activities that have done good things and that have been very upbuilding and supportive of the branches that have been within their clusters. I think it's important to see how we best use the funding we contribute to innovation, that it becomes useful in job structure and development, and to support the pioneers we have in Iceland. Happily, we have abundant intelligence and knowledge of people far and wide throughout the land that is important for future generations. This is the best, and I hope that as soon as possible, there will be positive payment at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u33	V.E.G. President. This is where we'll discuss a second issue. modeling cluster policy. This matter was first presented to the 144th legislature, and it is presented here in the job board's Internal Affairs Committee. As the years have passed, there have been more commercial events in which companies in the same sector and across countries see the benefits of cooperation, as well as cooperation with public, state, and rural society, and knowledge, education, research, and research institutions. As time goes by, I have found it, and more often the matter has happened to the council that there is an increased understanding and greater support for it, as is the proposal's partners, along with me. The matter of the backing of all members of the Parliament at the General Assembly. How grateful I am that support and positive for the progress of the matter! As far as I look forward to this broad support, I have hope for the rest and the progress of the case in the end. I hope that, when the task force is completed, when the team has developed a policy for the group support network, support systems so important in such a work, and policy that lives the government as good policy makes, and sets out sectoral activities, research, innovation and development, cluster integration, foregrounds, and still ensures successful national living everything that we are able to achieve and establish on the reporting process. I only want to enter a- team, but it says that it could be added to the word "diversity," not solely speaking of job structure and development as it says. I can agree with that, thinking that the staff can take this into account in their work. I feel that the antidote is to support the change in plans. The employment board presented a report to the General Assembly on February 1, 2021, that the staff will have the necessary time and that the case will go to the highest level. As suggested, tourism, industrial and innovation ministers. A respectable president. It is also important that the committee presented this way to look to the nations that have been successful and have good history to tell. Norway and Denmark are properly mentioned here, but many other countries have very good experience in such cluster work. I can name Canada, New Zealand, France and a lot of countries in the European Union. With senators and wοuldn't. The employment committee had the opportunity to meet with a specialist in this field and with a counselor, Ifor Williams, who was doing well and pleasantly with us on how this has grown and prospered since 1990 when such action began. I'd also like to say that reviews have all been very positive. It would have been tempting to refer to a number of positive and positive comments in support of the case, but I'm going to pass on this because it is in the job committee's committee's committee's section. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. A job board is a very good job, and it's a big committee's opinion. Then I'd like to thank all sources throughout the season for giving the project a vector and all partners support the proposal. I am convinced that this will strengthen a nation - wide clustering work, thereby promoting innovation, and making great benefits in time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-71.u34	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much. I just thought it was important to come up here and be happy that we were in the second round. in this fine matter. I think it is very important that professional health committees have reached this high level of solidarity to resolve the situation. We have seen the importance of this work as a mall in Iceland; we have a very pleasant example, such as the Icelandic Tourist, the Icelandic Sea Museum, and the Eel cluster and other malls that have done a tremendous amount of work. In these times of our Common Era, I don't think it was more important that we work together and use the solid strength to build up and create new opportunities. I think it's a bit appropriate that we finish this case here today and I just wanted to come up here and celebrate it. I thank you, of course. An attendant to Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for taking the initiative in this matter and for not giving up even if it hasn't gone to the last assembly. I'm glad we're finishing the case now.
